

801 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
Can Revenue Ease Resistance to Industry?

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
THE rural Town of Oxford, just over the Fairfield line in New Haven County, maintains a low profile. Its 8,685 residents enjoy 33 square miles of unspoiled countryside and want to keep it that way.
But next month, when the new town budget is proposed, they will face a projected 50 percent rise in taxes from the current 21.73 mills to around 31. It could change their minds about continuing to resist industrial development. 
 The rise in taxes reflects bonding debt for $18.5 million spent from 1987 to 1990 on a new elementary school and on sewer and water lines to a 3,000-acre industrial park in the northern section of town. The park was zoned for industrial use in the 70's to accommodate more than 3 million square feet of construction. But local opposition has discouraged development, in spite of land priced modestly at $20,000 to $80,000 an acre.
"People are of two minds about new industry," said C. Thomas Tarby, owner of the Colonial Tavern, a popular restaurant at the edge of the park. "They will spend to get the best for their kids, but they won't recognize the need for additional revenues to offset expenditures."
In an effort to attract tenants to land that it has owned for many years, Omega Engineering of Stamford announced this month that it will begin construction this fall of a 40,000-square-foot building for itself on its 92-acre Omega Airport Science Center.
The two-story, curvilinear building with an exterior of prefinished silver-gray and steel blue panels was designed by the William Murphy Architectural Group of West Chester, Pa.
The rest of the complex will be built as leases are secured. Plans for an additional 54 acres owned by Omega have not been developed.
"We also own land in New Jersey, where our manufacturing plant is located," said Ralph Michael, Omega's chief financial officer, "but we found it unsuitable for a long-term commercial project like this. We think Oxford has tremendous potential because of its location between I-84 and the Route 8 Expressway, its fiber-optic capabilities, its airport, a quality workforce and affordable housing."
Oxford, in a 13-town market area with a population of 250,000, "has more developable land than any town in the region," said Peter Dorpalen, executive director of the Central Naugatuck Valley Council of Governments, a regional planning agency. "We see it as potentially the most rapidly growing community in the state over the next 20 years."
Nevertheless, only a handful of industrial condominium tenants, a few light manufacturing firms and Sky Pix, a satellite broadcast center on 12 hilltop acres, have moved in to date.
Tom Hill, a regional realtor based in Waterbury, feels the town missed its opportunity to grow in the 70's and 80's and may have a long wait for the next wave of development. "Oxford was late putting in sewers and water, and marketing itself," he said.
LAST year, he said, he showed a fully approved 92-acre site to the Morgan Stanley Group of Manhattan, which turned it down as too remote for a corporate headquarters. Lately, he has leased a few 10,000- to 20,000-square-foot existing spaces at $5 a foot.
"In 1989, the town rejected a distribution center proposed by the Marriott Hotels," said John F. Montefalco, who was then First Selectman. "It would have brought $650,000 a year in taxes. After listening to six months of outcries against it, Marriott went to Massachusetts. That sent a negative message to other companies considering Oxford."
Peg Daley, Oxford's director of economic development, wants to recruit communications, video and data transmission companies "because we have exceptional fiber optic digital switching capability through Woodbury Telephone, a very aggressive independent company," she said.
"Other areas don't have it and it's expensive to install," she said. "We also have static-free air, something that is considered desirable for such companies. With defense scaling down, we have to find alternative industries."
Most town residents work in Bridgeport, Danbury, New Haven or Waterbury and many are in defense-related jobs at Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford.
Adjacent to the industrial park is Oxford's 20-year-old airport, the state's third largest with one 5,000-foot and one 2,000-foot runway. Only Bradley International in Windsor Locks and Tweed in New Haven are larger. Up to 130,000 takeoffs and landings are logged annually at Oxford, but there are no regular shuttle flights to major airports and no control tower for commercial aircraft.
The airport has never realized its full potential because of the lack of local industry and a state tax structure that limits revenues. A bill introduced this year could eliminate the tax on airplanes keyed to a town's mill rate and substitute one based on weight, like the tax on automobiles. Currently, a plane hangared at Oxford pays $21.73 for every $1,000 of assessment. On a $3 million plane "we are talking real money," said Joseph Tringali, president of Executive Flight Services, a charter operation at the airport. "Owners keep their planes out of state."
Despite the antidevelopment history of the town, commercial realtors say interest in Oxford has increased in the last several weeks. William Allen, partner in the ReMax franchise, said: "I am getting a lot more requests for industrial space from companies escaping high costs in New York and New Jersey. Land sales are still slow, but housing is being built, and that usually leads the way."
DAVID J. DADDARIO, senior vice president of North American Advisory Realty Services of Manhattan, nationwide real estate consultants, said: "Rather than lagging the big cities, the valley towns will lead Connecticut out of the recession, first with residential construction, then industrial, then retail. Having avoided inflated prices and overbuilding they are attractive alternatives to crowded and higher-priced cities."
Some 30,000 square feet of Oxford's modest commercial space is vacant (there are no town figures on the total square footage), compared with 22.5 percent in Stamford, where prices are $15 to $22 a foot.
"If the index of recovery is construction," said Alfred S. Remsen, executive vice president at William Pitt, Stamford realtors, "the thesis is correct. If the index is leasing, tenants will come here before getting involved with construction."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of the Omega Engineering building planned at the Airport Science Center in Oxford Township. (William Murphy Architectural Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OMEGA AIRPORT SCIENCE CENTER (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: OMEGA AIRPORT SCIENCE CENTER (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OXFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); ZONING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); ENGINEERING (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TRENDS (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



802 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Lose Homes In Mortgage Foreclosures

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
FROM one end of the state to the other, thousands of New Jersey residents -- owners and renters -- are losing their homes as banks and other lenders foreclose on delinquent mortgages.
The number of properties sold at public auction to satisfy unpaid mortgages has doubled and even tripled in some counties over the last few years. 
 And those sales may represent only the tip of the iceberg. Since 1989, the number of foreclosure lawsuits has risen by about 6,000 a year to 23,574 in 1991. Filings for the first two months of this year are running at about the same pace.
Since it takes about two years for the cases to wind their way through the state's heavily backlogged court system, most of the actual foreclosures from 1990 and 1991 suits have yet to occur.
"It's scary," said Dr. Paul Nadler, professor of finance at Rutgers University in Newark, "and I don't think it's peaked."
In county after county, the increase in foreclosures is disrupting the lives of homeowners and tenants. In fact, last week the office of the state's Public Advocate, Wilfredo Caraballo, said Mr. Caraballo planned to propose sweeping changes in the laws affecting homeowners involved in mortgage foreclosures; he has also recently challenged in court the practice of evicting tenants of property sold at sheriffs' sales. (Article on page 16.)
The increase in foreclosures has also strained the resources of courts and police officials. At the Hudson County Sheriff's office, Capt. Mary Tierney said: "The soaring number of foreclosures from 1987 until now is just outrageous. We used to have eight or nine sales a year. Now we have what amounts to one a day."
Rose Gentile, senior foreclosure clerk in the Middlesex County Sheriff's office, said: "We're tripling what we had last year. We thought it might start easing up, but it hasn't."
Though there are no statewide records available of foreclosure sales, each county keeps its own tally. In Middlesex County, for example, there were 89 sales in 1990 and 234 in 1991.
The increasing number of foreclosures, experts say, is a resounding echo of the collapse of the 1980's real-estate boom. That collapse, they say, and the recession that followed it resulted in decreased property values and dwindling incomes that left thousands of homeowners with mortgages they could no longer pay on houses they could no longer sell.
"In the old days," Dr. Nadler said, "what was really protecting people was inflation." If a person could no longer afford his mortgage payment, it was a simple matter of selling the property to pay off the loan.
Now, however, with property values static or declining, it is difficult at best to sell a house at a profit. And often, Dr. Nadler said, the decreased worth of the house has eliminated any equity the homeowner may have had, leaving him with a mortgage balance that exceeds the value of his home.
 
Mortgages Tied to Two Incomes
 In addition, Dr. Nadler said, many mortgages were made on the borrowing power of two incomes, the husband's and the wife's. If one of those incomes suddenly stops, he said, either because of loss of job or divorce, it is only a matter of time before household budgets reach a breaking point.
"I've often said that one of our main troubles is that the average mortgage lasts for eight years and the average marriage lasts for seven," he said.
The type of property that is the subject of a foreclosure lawsuit tends to vary with the nature of the real-estate market in different areas of the state.
In Cape May County, for example, where 594 foreclosure lawsuits were filed in 1991, about 90 percent of the properties being sold at foreclosure sales are summer homes that are not principal dwellings, said the Sheriff, James Plousis.
In Middlesex County, however, where 1,544 foreclosure actions were started last year, most involve houses that people bought to live in year round. In those cases, said Ms. Gentile, the county's senior foreclosure clerk, a job loss or a cut in pay starts a family on an inexorable slide into a financial quagmire.
 
'It's Easy to Miss Three or Four'
 "You miss one or two mortgage payments, and then it's easy to miss three or four after that," she said.
In Hudson County, where 1,661 foreclosure actions were started last year, many of the properties being sold are condominiums that have been recently built or converted from old apartment buildings. Often, Captain Tierney said, the condominiums that could not be sold were rented out at a loss, and though the tenants were paying rent to the owners, the owners were not paying the mortgage to the bank.
Eventually, the bank forecloses, the property is sold and the tenants have to be evicted. In Hudson County, the unwelcome task of evicting resident owners and tenants of properties sold at the foreclosure sales falls on Sheriff's Officer Michael Geerlof.
"We've evicted over 100 families so far this year," Officer Geerlof said. "And 90 percent of the people I'm evicting are innocent victims who have been faithfully paying their rent."
Many of them have nowhere to go, he said, adding: "They become street people. That's how you make a street person."
Theodore J. Doll, president of the Washington Savings Bank in Hoboken, said his bank would ordinarily not start a foreclosure action until a homeowner was three months behind in payments.
"We don't want to go to foreclosure, we don't want to go to sheriff's sale, but we do want to get paid," Mr. Doll said.
A foreclosure action is seldom started by a bank unless it has first exhausted all other possible solutions, including refinancing the loan or modifying the payment schedule in certain situations.
Once the action is started, however, the owner usually abandons any attempt to make further payments, putting the bank on the line for municipal real-estate taxes, insurance and the lost interest income for as much as two years.
 
The Other Side of the Story
 "The story you usually hear is about the person who is losing their house," Mr. Doll said. "But the other side is that they are living basically rent-free on some financial institution for up to two years."
Dr. Nadler agrees that despite the misery a foreclosure action inevitably brings, it is ultimately a necessary evil.
"It's easy to say we've got to protect the poor guy who isn't paying his mortgage," he said. "But in many ways we're protecting the guy who doesn't meet his obligations at the expense of those who do."
The money lost by banks that have to wait two years for a foreclosure to work its way through the courts, he said, results in lower rates paid on savings accounts and higher rates charged on other loans.
And the banks, he said, cannot be held completely accountable for making mortgages that in hindsight proved to be bad investments.
"We were all in this boom psychology; everybody listened to everybody else," Dr. Nadler said. "In 1989, who could have said that it would all end?"
 
A Backlog of Sales
 Captain Tierney, who is in charge of scheduling public auction sales of foreclosed properties in Hudson County, said the number of foreclosures had increased so dramatically that there was currently a backlog of sales to be scheduled.
"It's terrible, and I don't see a light at the end of the tunnel," she said. "We're fighting a losing battle. We get rid of 10 properties in one week, and 15 more come in the next week."
Officials of other counties echo her concerns.
"Last year we doubled any previous year in our history of doing the sales," Sheriff Plousis of Cape May County said. "And this year we are going to surpass last year's numbers."
In Middlesex County, officials say they have already scheduled more foreclosure sales in the first three and a half months of this year than they did during all of last year.
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC ADVOCATE'S PLAN
 The office of Wilfredo Caraballo, the state's Public Advocate, said last week that he was planning to propose legislation that would significantly change the options of homeowners in a mortgage foreclosure. Mr. Caraballo has also recently challenged in court the practice of evicting tenants of property sold at sheriffs' sales.
Once a property owner is 30 days late with a mortgage payment, the lender can generally demand payment of the entire mortgage and begin foreclosure proceedings. The lender has no obligation to accept less than the full amount remaining on the mortgage.
The Public Advocate's proposal would require a lender to reinstate the mortgage of a property owner who pays all back payments, including interest and fees associated with the foreclosure, at any time prior to the actual foreclosure sale.
The Public Advocate has also challenged a recent court decision that allowed the buyer of a property at a foreclosure sale to evict tenants living on the premises.
Mr. Caraballo maintained that tenants are protected by a 1986 amendment to the state's landlord-tenant law that prohibits landlords from evicting tenants without "good cause" to do so. Good cause includes such things as nonpayment of rent or disorderly behavior on the part of the tenant.
Mr. Caraballo argued that a buyer at a sheriff's sale should be subject to the same requirement of proving good cause as the original landlord was.
In a recent Essex County case brought by a bank against tenants in a property that the bank had taken back in foreclosure, Judge Irwin I. Kimmelman of State Superior Court ruled that the amendment did not apply.
Mr. Caraballo, whose office represents the tenants in the case, has appealed Judge Kimmelman's ruling to the Appellate Division of the Superior Court. It is the first appeal in a case of this type in New Jersey. If the appeal is successful, experts say, it could spell trouble for lenders.
Myron D. Milch, a Hackensack lawyer who specializes in mortgage foreclosures, said prohibiting buyers at foreclosure sales from evicting tenants would discourage active bidding.
In addition, he said, it would make it difficult for banks that take property back at sheriffs' sales to sell the property later with tenants in it. "Banks want to be banks," Mr. Milch said. "They don't want to be landlords."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bobby Callahan, a locksmith, climb ing through window of a North Bergen house recently sold at foreclosure sale as a bank repre sentative watched. Left, Mr. Callahan replacing lock. (pg. 1); Edward J. Zientek, seated at left, an acting undersheriff, during foreclosure auction in North Bergen. (pg. 16) (F. N. Kinney for The New York Times)
 
Chart: Mortgage Foreclosure Lawsuits. Actions filed in New Jersey Suprior Court by county, 1989 through 1991 (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FORECLOSURES; MORTGAGES; SUITS AND LITIGATION FORECLOSURE (95%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SHERIFFS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); EVICTION (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AUCTIONS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; CARABALLO, WILFREDO MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



803 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: A Housing Goal For Every Town

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
WESTCHESTER municipalities already struggling with the county's month-old plan to build 500 units of affordable housing can now consider the impact of 10 times that number, as they study a report released last week by a citizens advisory group.
The report specifies the share of affordable housing that each of the county's 43 municipalities should provide to meet the county's goal of providing 5,000 units of permanent affordable housing for households with incomes ranging from $22,000 to $52,000. 
 It was approved at Tuesday's meeting of the Housing Implementation Commission and sets goals that range from 15 units in Buchanan to 825 units in Yonkers. [A map listing each community's allocation appears on page 10.]
The commission, an advisory board appointed by the County Executive, agreed more than a year ago that every municipality in the county should participate if a housing plan is to be truly fair; it has now defined that responsibility, giving each community an allocation -- the first time such an effort has been made in Westchester.
 
2 Attempts to Outline Policy
 The report relies on the estimates of housing need in the county provided by the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University last summer in an $80,000 study commissioned by the County Board of Legislators. Although legislators have said that they will not be able to assess each community's fair share without additional census data, commission members say that further delay is unnecessary.
The commission's report and the study commissioned by the Board of Legislators are separate attempts to outline a defensible housing policy amid growing concern that courts in the state, under pressure from developers and housing advocates, may soon mandate an affordable-housing program for local communities the way New Jersey courts have done, starting with the Mount Laurel decision of 1975.
To determine where affordable housing belongs in the county, the commission consulted housing specialists, reviewed court rulings and ran computer simulations. The commission said that communities with lots of available acreage should be considered as housing sites because they have the space and that communities with dense populations should be considered because they have sewer and road systems.
 
Commercial Space Is a Factor
 A critical factor in determining the amount of affordable housing each community should build, the commission said, is the growth in commercial space in those municipalities. "Communities that have benefitted from commercial growth are creating traffic jams, housing and school expenditures in other municipalities," the report said. "These communities have a responsibility to provide housing for the population that works within their boundries."
Bernice Giscombe, a vice president at Citibank and a real estate specialist, headed the commission task force that produced the report. "If you are a municipality that attracts jobs," she said, "you have to realize you are burdening surrounding municipalities if you don't have the housing for your workers. You have increased ratables, but your neighbors haven't."
The community housing plan will now be reviewed by municipal leaders, along with two other commission reports: one suggesting ways that communities can provide more low-cost housing and one exploring reasons for the county's current lack of rental housing and the substandard quality of much that exists. Their reactions, due within 45 days, could come during public hearings that the commission is planning to hold before it submits its final report to County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke.
The ad hoc group of planners, financial analysts, developers and community leaders was appointed two years ago by the County Executive and given a mandate to develop 5,000 units of permanent affordable housing before it is dissolved in June 1993.
The group's mission was short-circuited by State Attorney General Robert Abrams and by Mr. O'Rourke, who in mid-March produced his own plan to build the first 500 of the 5,000 units less than a month after Mr. Abrams ruled that counties have the authority to build and finance low-cost housing and to override local zoning if necessary.
The County Executive released his plan without consulting the commission. Relations with the group have been strained since last fall when Mr. O'Rourke fired the commission's chairman, David Bogdanoff, a builder in the county, after he accused Mr. O'Rourke of moving too slowly to persuade municipalities to build housing.
Although no new leader has been appointed and few regular meetings have been held, the commission, under an acting chairman, Guy Liebler, has continued its work of assessing the county's long-term housing needs.
Acting at the urging of its pro bono staff director, Joseph F. Dzaluk, executive director of the Westchester Housing Forum, a nonprofit agency promoting affordable housing for the middle class, the commission provided its own assessment of Westchester's need for affordable housing.
 
Allowing Accessory Apartments
 In a second task force report, a committee headed by Morton A. Smith, a partner in the White Plains law firm of Hall, Dickler, Lawler, Kent & Friedman, suggested that housing could be increased by allowing accessory apartments in every community and changing rent-control laws to allow the renting of vacant apartments in cooperative or condominiumum buildings.
"We have lots of illegal apartments in Westchester where landlords are gouging tenants," Mr. Smith said. "If you legalize them, you can control them a lot better while helping elderly people living alone to rent space."
Changing rent-control laws, Mr. Smith said, as has been done in New York City, would have an immediate effect in Westchester, "freeing 1,000 rental units to come on the market immediately." Landlords are reluctant to rent these apartments because current law requires leases of at least one year, Mr. Smith said, making them unattractive to potential purchasers of the properties.
A third report on existing housing, also issued by the commission, urges the county to begin planning for adequate housing for families earning less than $20,499 when it completes its housing plan. The report also calls on the county to develop a property-improvement program to help owners maintain existing housing stock.
Last week Mr. O'Rourke and the County's Acting Planning Commissioner, Lynn Oliva, attended the commission's meeting and briefed members on the status of the county's affordable-housing plan. The commission approved a resolution endorsing the plan as a "positive first step," but it recommended that more attention be paid to housing for families earning less than $28,000, the elderly and the homeless.
The reports by the Housing Implementation Commission will eventually go to the Board of Legislators, which is already considering the County Executive's plan as part of its own housing policy, one that the legislators say will pay more attention to the need for rental housing. The Housing Implementation Commission also passed a resolution urging quick adoption by the legislators of a statement of need as a first step in implementing an affordable-housing plan.
As his committee formulates its housing proposals and readies its statement of need, Timothy C. Carey, co-chairman of the Committee on Housing and Community Affairs, has said repeatedly that determining each community's fair share of any new housing will have to await 1990 census data that won't be available until next year.

GRAPHIC: Map of Westchester County (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (50%); C (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (50%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); CENSUS (73%); CITIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POPULATION DENSITY (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); MODELING & SIMULATION (66%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (63%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA ANN LIVERMORE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



804 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2896 words

HEADLINE: Point Man for the Rescue of the Century

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Michel Camdessus, the head of the International Monetary Fund, visibly winces when he is confronted with some of the harshest criticisms of the fund's attempts to help hard-pressed developing nations by lending money and prescribing economic reforms.
John Cavanagh, an expert on developing countries at the left-of-center Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, says: "The I.M.F. in many ways is like a medieval doctor where no matter what the ailment, you apply leeches and bleed the patient. My experience is they are very successful in steering countries' resources toward paying debts to commercial banks, but they are disastrous in terms of the long-term economic health of these countries." 
 Alan Reynolds, an economist at the right-of-center Hudson Institute, a think tank in Indianapolis, harbors similar feelings. "We know what works, and the I.M.F. just doesn't get it," he said. "They use a form of central planning -- with high taxes, high tariffs and weak currencies -- that hasn't worked in promoting growth." One of Mr. Reynolds's favorite I.M.F. disaster stories: Haiti, which has gone through 21 I.M.F. programs and is still in dire straits.
But the epithet of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt is the most succinct -- and cutting -- of all. He called the I.M.F. the "International Misery Fund."
In its 48-year history, the I.M.F. has never wanted for critics, though the fund also has plenty of equally vocal supporters who say it has been indispensable in righting the faltering economies of numerous developing countries.
The amount of criticism heaped upon Mr. Camdessus will no doubt jump sharply over the next few months as he assumes a new high-profile role. He has suddenly become the Western world's point man in what could be the biggest economic challenge of the century: seeing that Russia and the other former Soviet republics survive the wrenching transition from seven decades of Communism and central economic planning to market-based economies.
 
Including Ex-Soviet Republics
 In a historic move here tomorrow, the I.M.F. is expected to announce that its 156 member nations voted to let Russia and the other republics become members. The stakes couldn't be higher. Mr. Camdessus believes that if the I.M.F. and Group of Seven industrial nations fail to snatch the republics from the jaws of economic chaos, there could be a new hostile dictatorship in Russia, a rebirth of the cold war and many more years of hardship for 290 million people.
"Certainly I fear failure; I fear reactionary forces will come back to power," Mr. Camdessus said, sitting in his sun-drenched, mahogany-paneled office three blocks west of the White House. "If we fail, it will be a failure for the whole international community."
The impressions from a recent trip to Russia still haunt him. "When you go to Moscow you have a tangible sense that it is a place where the history of the world is being made," he said. "But in the streets, you see utter poverty. You feel you have to mobilize yourself to help."
The aid effort to Russia and the other republics is by far the most ambitious undertaking in I.M.F. history. Mr. Camdessus (pronounced cahm-duh-SUE) estimates they will need far more than $100 billion in foreign aid over the next four years. The fund is rushing to send dozens of experts to Russia, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and other republics to advise them on how to balance their budgets, remove price controls, build social safety nets and slash money supply growth to reduce inflation. It is also coordinating aid efforts by individual nations, and the World Bank and other international agencies.
As the I.M.F. is drawn into the affairs of the republics, one of the world's most powerful economic institutions will become larger and more powerful. More than 50 nations are already following its reform programs, which helps explain why it has long been demonized as an all-powerful, behind-the-scenes puppeteer for the third world. Forty more countries are negotiating such programs and hope to receive billions in I.M.F. loans in return.
Whether the I.M.F. will have enough money to help the former Soviet Union and all these other countries is a question often debated at its offices, and in the corridors of Washington and other capitals. The problem is that the I.M.F. needs $60 billion, which its members provisionally approved two years ago. But formal approval -- and the actual flow of funds -- is lagging, particularly because Congress still hasn't authorized the $12 billion that would be the United States' share.
"We can't do the work we have to do, not only in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, but Africa and Asia, unless we have the financial means," Mr. Camdessus said. With a focus on Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, many African, Asian and Latin American leaders fear that they will get short rations if additional funds don't appear soon.
The I.M.F. has at times been an institution in search of a mission. It was founded near the end of World War II to supervise a fixed exchange-rate system and help industrialized countries cope with temporary payments imbalances. With the end of the fixed rates in the early 70's, it looked as if the I.M.F. had no role. But when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries stormed onto the scene in 1973, the I.M.F. began to help channel petrodollars from rich Arab states to developing nations.
In the early 1980's, the fund became enmeshed in the third-world debt crisis and was an intermediary between developing countries and commercial banks eager to be repaid. With the debt crisis ebbing in recent years, the I.M.F. again appeared to be casting about for a mission. Then Communism collapsed.
"We don't have the right to miss this opportunity," Mr. Camdessus said. "Alone, we can't do anything, but we can be the catalyst for international support." He said the former Soviet Union will need $44 billion in aid this year; close to $5 billion is expected to come from the I.M.F.
Over the last few months the fund has radically reoriented its staff. It has expanded to 2,200 employees from 2,000 and assigned more than 150 to work full time on the former Soviet Union.
 
The Butt of Jokes
 Sending an I.M.F. army of advisers to Russia has brought sardonic jokes from critics, who wonder whether Russia, the patient, will survive the medicine of I.M.F., the doctor.
"There are two kinds of economic policies," Mr. Camdessus responds. "Those that work and those that don't work." He argues that Russia, and any other countries sincere about regaining their economic health, have little choice but to adopt the reforms recommended by the I.M.F.
I.M.F. programs typically aim to slash inflation and stop capital flight by getting countries to reduce budget deficits and tighten money supply growth -- moves that cause people from Poland to Peru to complain. The fund also works with countries to reduce the financing gaps that result from trade deficits and debt servicing costs. The programs often call on countries to increase exports and reduce imports, which generally hurts consumers. Many nations are told to reduce bloated bureaucracies and get rid of money-losing state businesses, both moves that can throw thousands out of work.
Not surprisingly, many countries follow some recommendations but ignore others. Mr. Camdessus contends there is a simple reason why so many of the countries that had I.M.F. programs remain in bad shape: they failed to follow the program.
Mr. Camdessus takes a full-speed-ahead approach to reform. "If one wants to go fast, it's more painful," he admitted. "But if one goes slowly one just prolongs the pain, and that's not good for anyone."
The I.M.F.'s recommendations for Russia are aimed at slashing inflation, which is expected to reach 1,000 percent this year. It wants Russia to balance its budget, after the former Soviet Union's deficit came to about 20 percent of gross domestic product last year. Fund officials are also pressing Russia to remove all price controls, privatize retail operations and restrict the flow of credits to inefficient enterprises teetering near bankruptcy. But to the frustration of I.M.F. officials, state enterprises have persuaded Moscow to ease credit and provide 200 billion rubles in new loans to keep them afloat.
The fund has also called on Russia to lift its oil prices fifteenfold, to world levels. This would shock consumers and reduce consumption at home, but would enable Russia to increase exports and export revenues. The fund has called for removing across-the-board food subsidies and targeting aid to the vulnerable -- like the elderly and unemployed. Like I.M.F. countries before it, Russia will have to navigate between the Scylla of what society will tolerate and the Charybdis of the I.M.F.'s demands.
In recent months, I.M.F. experts have flocked to Russia and other republics to teach the ABC's of market economies. With the help of other international agencies, these experts are explaining how to run central banks, compile accurate statistics, control budget expenditures and administer a tax system.
"The difficulties will be greater in Russia than elsewhere because they have never known capitalism," said Mr. Camdessus. "It's going to be a long road for them."
Mr. Camdessus, who is 58 years old and left his post as head of the Bank of France to become the I.M.F.'s managing director in 1987, is generally credited with making the I.M.F. a kinder, gentler institution. He has made it put less emphasis on austerity, which can lead to social unrest, and more on growth. In the speeches he gives in places like Lagos, Nigeria, and Lima, Peru, he reminds audiences that the purpose of the I.M.F.-approved straitjackets is to produce more growth long-term. To that end, he has introduced highly subsidized loans of one-half of 1 percent a year to the poorest countries.
Mr. Camdessus's critics concede that he has, far more than his seven predecessors, stressed the notion of social safety nets. It reflects his central banker's hunger for order, discipline and getting things done, combined with the French intellectual's love for social democracy. (Although he was recommended by President Francois Mitterrand of France, he disclaims any political affiliation.)
In Russia's case, Mr. Camdessus says that creation of an adequate safety net is crucial. He nervously watched the Russian Parliament's recent near-revolt against the painful reforms implemented by President Boris N. Yeltsin and how that tussle almost caused his Cabinet to resign.
"The situation is dangerously chaotic over there," he said. "Everyone knows that revolutions often devour their children. It took my country 2,000 years to develop a market economy. In Russia, they are trying to telescope it into a few months."
Responding to his critics of the right, Mr. Camdessus said the fund does not always offer a recipe of higher taxes, asserting that the fund sometimes recommends lower taxes to help spur industry. I.M.F. officials point to Argentina, Costa Rica and Jamaica as countries where taxes were lowered at the I.M.F.'s urging. But as a general rule, he says, solid tax revenues are needed to help hold down budget deficits and inflation.
He counters critics of the left who say the fund is a collection agency for the industrialized world's commercial banks by noting that in recent years he has pressed banks to forgive some third world debts. I.M.F. officials point to pressures the fund put on banks with troubled loans in Argentina, Mexico and Venezuela.
Mr. Camdessus admits the left has a valid point that safety nets set up under I.M.F. programs often have too many holes. "Sometimes there just aren't the resources to set up the type of safety net we would like," he said.
Mr. Camdessus also rebuts charges that the I.M.F. causes hunger: "Mismanagement of national economies hurts the poorest most. You don't correct in 15 months the consequences of 15 years of mismanagement."
These criticisms from the left and right have had a particular resonance here in recent months as Congress has dragged its feet on approving the $12 billion in new funding and the Bush Administration remained silent on the matter. In an election year when voters are opposed to foreign aid in the face of recession at home, Congress has been reluctant to vote the money. And President Bush, stung by criticisms that he is too focused on foreign affairs and neglects the domestic economy, has not wanted to push the lawmakers.
I.M.F. officials were clearly delighted when President Bush called on Congress April 1 to approve the $12 billion, which will in effect be an interest-bearing investment in the fund. Although most officials say Congress will eventually approve the money, many say that probably will not happen until after the election.
Mr. Camdessus, who in January began a second five-year term as the I.M.F.'s head, has learned to view all the commotion here and abroad with equanimity. If imitation is the sincerest flattery, then the I.M.F. is succeeding splendidly. Despite what critics contend is the fund's penchant for trauma-inducing reforms, he is proud that many countries have begun to embrace -- on their own -- policies that the I.M.F. has long promoted. He cites Mexico, Argentina and Czechoslovakia as sterling examples.
"They have been inspired by examples of success that have occurred elsewhere," he said. "There are spirals of success, just as there are spirals of failure."
 
 
 
AHEAD OF THE CURVE AT I.M.F.
 Michel Camdessus sometimes finds himself on the other side of the fence from the Bush Administration. He sought to bar I.M.F. loans to third world nations unless they cut their military budgets, but the United States and several other industrial nations blocked that idea. He began pushing for debt relief for the third world, not just rescheduling, before the United States and other industrial nations were ready to accept that notion.
He frequently chides Washington for its astronomical budget deficit, saying it is unfair that at a time when the developing world badly needs money for investment so much of the world's savings go to finance the American deficit.
"Camdessus has usually been ahead of the curve," said Richard Feinberg, president of Inter-American Dialogue, a public policy group specializing in hemispheric issues. "He has been a bold, imaginative civil servant who has been foresighted and courageous enough to get out ahead on many issues."
The son of a journalist in Bayonne in southern France, Mr. Camdessus graduated from France's famed Ecole Nationale d'Administration and joined the French Treasury in 1960. He became director 22 years later and in that position was chairman of the Paris Club, which oversaw rescheduling efforts of government-to-government debt owed by the third world.
Despite its occasional differences with Mr. Camdessus, the Bush Administration turned to the I.M.F. to coordinate efforts to help the former Soviet Union. Officials in Washington say that after the Group of Seven industrial nations chose the European Community executive commission to coordinate aid to Eastern Europe, Washington felt left out. Washington turned to the I.M.F., officials say, partly because the United States has the strongest voice there.
 
 
 
DO THE I.M.F. TARGETS WORK?
 The ultimate test of the I.M.F.'s success is whether countries that follow its reform programs grow faster than they would have without the programs. Some studies have been encouraging, some less so.
A study by the I.M.F. Assessment Project, a nonpartisan group of economists, found that in the late 1980's countries that met economic-reform targets in I.M.F. programs raised their annual growth rate to 4.3 percent from 1.2 percent. Those that missed targets saw their growth rise to 1.4 percent from 1.1 percent.
But Gregory A. Fossedal, the economist who supervised the study, said these figures did not necessarily show that the I.M.F.'s recommendations were the reason for success. "It's easier for countries that have more growth in the first place to meet the I.M.F. targets," he said.
The project's study also showed that a country's balance of payments swung from deficit into surplus if it met the I.M.F. targets. In countries that missed their targets, the deficits more than doubled.
But a 1990 study by the I.M.F. itself reached a less sanguine conclusion -- an I.M.F. fiscal reform program made almost no difference to a country's growth. This appeared to buttress those critics who argue that the I.M.F.'s tilt toward fiscal austerity squeezes growth out of a country's economic system. I.M.F. officials assert, however, that the reform programs at least prepared the groundwork for future growth by pushing down inflation and improving balance of payments.
Confusing attempts to assess the I.M.F. is the frequency with which countries fail to meet targets. A study by Jacques Polak, a former senior I.M.F. official, found that in 1988 and 1989 countries missed I.M.F. monetary and fiscal targets 60 percent of the time.
That research drives home one basic point that Michel Camdessus, the I.M.F.'s managing director, preaches. A fund program can achieve little unless a government is serious about sticking to it, he says.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michel Camdessus, head of the International Monetary Fund, in his Washinton office. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Russians protesting the economic reforms of Boris N. Yeltsin last winter. (Associated Press) (pg. 6)
 
Tables: "Coming Out of the Red," shows where $44 billion of foreign aid to help former Soviet Union finance its imports and service its debt will come from (Sources: The White House; Treasury Dept.); "Where They Stand," lists what a number of countries have arranged to borrow from the I.M.F. from 1980 through February 1992, their inflation rates at the end of 1990 and government deficits/surpluses as a percent of their gross domestic products at the end of year noted. (Source: International Monetary Fund) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) F IS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (57%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (57%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (57%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (57%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); HAITI (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TRENDS (66%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

PERSON: CAMDESSUS, MICHEL; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



805 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Supply of Stocks Rises to Meet Demand for Cash

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Supply will rise to meet any demand.
That may not be true for all businesses, or for all time. But it certainly helps explain what has been going on in the stock market in 1992. 
 The decision by General Motors to issue as much as $2.8 billion in common stock, some of it to its pension funds but most of it to be sold to investors, is only the latest piece of evidence that demand for stock, no matter how great, may be matched or even exceeded by corporate America's desire for cash.
G.M.'s shares have soared 37 percent in 1992, as investors looked for the economic rebound and then gleefully reacted to the G.M. coup, when the board discovered it had authority over management. (It was a bloodless uprising. Lloyd E. Reuss may be out as president, but he is still on the payroll. Layoffs are for hourly workers.) For G.M., grabbing the money before investors have a chance to see just how the new G.M. will perform is probably a good idea.
Unfortunately for stock market investors, G.M.'s share performance this year has been the exception, not the rule. The average stock is down a bit since Dec. 31, and the market surge after the Fed eased credit on April 9 has almost entirely vanished. "This rally has been the weakest one we've had" in at least a couple of years, notes Bob Farrell, the chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch.
The Dow Jones industrial average, down 42.04 to 3,324.46 last week, is still up 4.5 percent since the last Fed move. But the Nasdaq composite fell 3.2 percent last week, its worst weekly showing since small stocks bottomed in October 1990, and is now at its lowest level of 1992.
The failure of stocks to do much in 1992 is all the more amazing in that mutual fund purchasers have probably put something like $25 billion into stocks this year. That is a record pace, but it has not been enough to absorb all the new shares being issued.
The mutual fund figures now are more important than ever because pension funds are not seeing much new cash. Individual investors, whether directly or through funds, have been the ones soaking up the billions of new stock offerings.
Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services of Arcata, Calif., which tracks mutual fund cash flows, says there were signs of a slackening of buying interest earlier in the month, but it seems to be coming back. And Fidelity Investments says that retirement money is still flowing in, as investors abandon banks.
The stock market is not the only one dependent on mutual fund investors. The funds are the major buyers now of junk bonds and of municipal bonds. "What happens," asks Henry Kaufman, the economist and money manager, "when short-term interest rates start to rise?" The answer, he suggests, could be a lot of volatility as money is pulled out of mutual funds.
That, in a nutshell, is the problem. Mutual fund demand for stocks could be temporary. But the supply of shares now being issued will not soon vanish.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "General Motors Cashes In," tracks daily closes of G.M. stock, Dec.-April 24, 1992; "The Dow Drops 42.04 to 3324.46," tracks Dow Jones average, April 16-24, 1992; "Small Stocks Fall Back," tracks weekly closes of S.&P. 500 and Nasdaq composite, Jan. 2-April 24, 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FMR CORP (57%); AMG DATA SERVICES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATIONS STOCK INDEXES (91%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); CASH FLOW (75%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (60%); EVIDENCE (56%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



806 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/April 19-24

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
G.M.'s New Leadership Begins Putting Its Team in Place 

Earlier this month, there was a coup at the General Motors Corporation, which lost $4.5 billion last year. Last week, when John F. Smith Jr., the company's president, introduced the new junta on closed-circuit TV, analysts said it finally looked as if the world's No. 1, auto maker had brought in the "A" team. J. Michael Losh, general manager of Oldsmobile, will run G.M.'s sales and marketing operations and its Canadian and Mexican divisions. Michael Mutchler will be in charge of North American Passenger Car Platforms, the division that actually builds the cars, and J. T. Battenberg III will oversee G.M.'s worldwide components business. All good people, the analysts said. G.M. plans the largest common stock offering in American history -- up to $2.8 billion. Its pension funds get $500 million of stock, with the rest going to the public. "Market psychology is with them," said Mary Ann Sudol of Fitch Investors Service.

American Air Muscles Its Rivals
 
Since the seats they sell are all pretty much the same, airlines can really only compete on price. That kind of competition is brutal, but it is one that American Airlines, with its low-cost operations, is betting it can win. Last week, American lowered its ticket prices for the second time this month and eased advanced restrictions to 14 days from 21 days on some of its fares. To stay aloft, American's weaker rivals -- bankrupt T.W.A. and America West Airlines -- have been forced to do the same. But those debt-laden carriers may not survive American's bruising confrontation, analysts say. "There's going to be another round of consolidation here," said Kevin Murphy, an airline analyst at Morgan Stanley. T.W.A. and America West could be forced into merging with stronger carriers, he said.

Like a Magnate
 
Not only does the "Material Girl" cut quite a figure on stage, she also cuts quite a deal. Last week, Time Warner Inc., agreed to a 7-year contract with Madonna worth $60 million. With Time Warner, she will form a multi-media entertainment company -- Maverick -- to nurture new talent and develop movie, TV and music projects. The contract gives her a $5 million advance for each of her next seven albums and a 20 percent royalty rate -- the same as mega-star Michael Jackson gets. Time Warner will commit another $2 million a year to Maverick. "In other deals where artists get their own labels, such perks are usually window-dressing to satisfy their egos. Madonna is different," said Charles Koppelman, chief operating officer of EMI Records North America. Madonna is indeed different. She has sold 70 million copies of her albums so far.

The High-Tech Flashcard
 
Flashcards are what people used to use when they needed to learn Latin -- or the multiplication tables. Not anymore. The term now applies to compact computer memories. Last week, the Intel Corporation said it would sell credit-card-sized flash cards that can store 20 megabytes of information. Those cards could replace bulky hard-disk drives. Intel's card, which will sell for $600, has no moving parts, can be erased, does not lose information when the electrical power is switched off and is not bothered by vibration. "You can put them in small computers that don't have room for a drive and where you want extended battery life," said Michael Murphy, editor of the California Technology Stock Letter. Mr. Murphy expects the market -- now tiny -- to reach $1.5 billion by 1995.

Teledyne's Troubles With Justice
 
The Justice Department accused Teledyne Inc., the big Los Angeles-based military contractor, of falsifying tests on electromagnetic relays, which it produces at the rate of 200,000 a month. The relays are used in military weapons systems, missiles, airplanes and rockets. The civil suit said Teledyne certified to the Government that its relays had passed rigorous tests that were either never done or were done improperly. Teledyne charged the Government a $20 testing fee on each $6 part. Teledyne may have defrauded the Government of $250 million, the Government said.

A Dirty Diamond Deal?
 
Last week, Edward J. Russell filed a suit in a Cincinnati court alleging that the General Electric Company and De Beers, the South African diamond cartel, conspired to fix prices on industrial diamonds. The Justice Department confirmed that it is looking into the charges. Mr. Russell, who worked for G.E., said he was dismissed last year after objecting to the company's dealings with De Beers. He said that when he left G.E., it raised diamond prices 15 percent. That increase was matched by De Beers. "Generally industrial prices follow gem prices, although not in a one-to-one manner," said Peter Bell, of Norton Inc., a leading user of industrial diamonds. But during that period, the market for gem-quality diamonds was flat. Mr. Russell is seeking reinstatement at G.E. and unspecified monetary damages.

Caterpillar Gets Its Way
 
Differences remain, but last week members of the United Automobile Workers Union trudged back to Caterpillar Inc., after a five-month strike. Negotiations will continue over salaries; Caterpillar offered its top workers $39,000; the Union wants $40,000.
 
 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
Loosened Controls on Exports
 
High-tech weapons won the war in the Persian Gulf for America and its allies. But some items also wound up in the hands of the Iraqis, although export controls were supposed to prevent that. But those controls hurt business and should be eased, the high-tech manufacturers argued. Besides, the cold war is over. Last week, the Administration heard the manufacturers' pleas. It relaxed the rules governing exports of American technology, including supercomputers and gadgets that detect airplanes and submarines, to Europe, Japan and Australia. "We relaxed trade restrictions on exports that served us well during the cold-war era, but are no longer necessary in our new world," President Bush said last week. Critics, like Gary Mihollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, disagree. "We should learn something from the Gulf War," he said.

It Isn't Exactly al Dente
 
As recoveries go, this one has about as much snap as a soggy noodle. Orders for durable -- big-ticket, long-lasting items like washing machines, airplanes and refrigerators, were no different. According to the Commerce Department, orders increased by 1.6 percent last month after remaining unchanged in February. Nearly all the gains were accounted for by the aircraft industry.
Unemployment Lines Thin Out
Good news on the employment side. For the last three weeks, new unemployment claims have fallen, the Labor Department said. Claims for the week ending April 11, fell to 404,000 the lowest level in six months.

Now, the Rich Are Very Different
 
Report cards on Reaganomics -- most of them mixed -- have been arriving for years. But the latest one, from the Federal Reserve and the Internal Revenue Service, was the first from the Government. Overall, private wealth grew in the 1980's, the reports said. But the richest 1 percent of the country snatched the largest gains. The top 1 percent had 37 percent of the country's total net worth, up from 31 percent in 1983. By 1989, the top 1 percent (834,00 households) was worth about $5.7 trillion -- more than the bottom 90 percent (84 million households). "Its another example of a big, unprecedented jump in inequality to Great Gatsby levels," said Paul Krugman, an economist at M.I.T.

The Income Slope Gets Slipperier
 
The good news, the Commerce Department said last week, was that personal income rose last year by 2.1 percent. Though that's not a strong increase, at least the sign was positive. But the bad news was that last year's inflation rate was 4.1 percent. That meant most Americans lost ground.

 
 
INTERNATIONAL


Conversation Continues at GATT
 
President Bush and Jacques Delors, president of the European Community's executive commission, sat toe-to-toe in Washington last week talking about trade. They got nowhere. Mr. Bush failed to persuade the community to reduce the subsidies its gives its farmers. Those subsidies allow European farmers to undercut their American counterparts on the world market. Farmers have plenty of political clout in Europe. The failure of last week's discussions puts in doubt other trade negotiations through the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs. "No topic on our agenda is more crucial than the Uruguay Round. We are committed to achieve an early agreement," Mr. Bush said. Early? The current negotiations have been underway for nearly six years.

Is Rolls Downwardly Mobile?
 
The recession has been particularly tough on aristocratic Rolls-Royce Motor Cars. Sales of its elegant land yachts fell last year by 50 percent, to 1,731 cars, prompting its parent, Britain's Vickers P.L.C., to put the company on the block. Japan's Toyota kicked the tires. But last week, Shoichido Toyoda, its president, said he was being rushed by Vickers to make up his mind. "They wanted an answer very quickly," he said. So the answer they got was 'no.' Rumor has it General Motors, Ford Motor, Fiat and Mitsubishi are also interested in the car maker.
 
Imported Beer Drinkers Lament
 
Americans who like to swill their Molson, Moosehead and Labatt are likely find that Canadian brews will soon cost more. The Administration said last week it would slap duties on Canadian beer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Stempel, G.M.'s chief; Madonna: Maverick C.E.O. A Rolls-Royce Corniche. (Marshall Shuon/The New York Times)
 
Graph tracks monthly percent change in durable goods orders, March 1991-March 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept.)
 
Tables list share of total net worth of American families for 1983 and 1989 (Source: Federal Reserve); personal income per capita for the top and bottom five states in 1991 (Source: Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); TWX (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); TIME WARNER INC (81%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); ROYALTIES (75%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); COMMON STOCK (68%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); HISTORY (53%); 

PERSON: KURTZMAN, JOEL MADONNA (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



807 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
Alamo's Big Drive to Lower Prices

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Vacationing travelers may find plenty of reason to applaud Alamo Rent A Car's "Great American Rates," the program of sharply discounted uniform nationwide rates that the company announced last week.
For example, a Cadillac that rented for $36.99 a day in Miami and $64.99 in Chicago now goes for $29 at all 102 Alamo outlets. Mid-size cars were reduced to $19 a day, and economy cars were cut to $15. The only hitches: 24-hour advance booking is required and the renter must keep the car over a Saturday night. 
 The cut-rate program was not welcome news, however, to competitors in the beleaguered auto rental business, which has been struggling lately with declining prices, rising costs, slim profits and customers who skip around to save a dollar.
For his part, Macdonald Clark, Alamo's executive vice president in charge of sales and marketing, is betting that a bigger slice of the $11.4 billion car rental market will more than make up for thinner profit margins from Alamo's discounted prices. Alamo now has roughly 10 percent of the business.
"Overall, we should come out ahead of the game," said Mr. Clark, 52 years old, for whom the auto rental industry is a third career, following more than a decade in retailing and five years practicing law. He joined Alamo in 1983 as vice president for sales.
With the new program, Mr. Clark appeared to rip a page out of American Airlines's playbook. On April 9, the carrier announced sweeping changes to simplify its fare structure and cut many prices. But Mr. Clark said he had hatched the idea for Alamo's cuts the weekend before.
He nonetheless welcomed the timing of the two announcements. Increased flight bookings mean more business for all rental-car companies and, presumably, better results from the millions of dollars Alamo is spending to market the new program.
"The airlines set the tone and pace for what happens, and the timing is at the right point," Mr. Clark said last week in a telephone interview from his office at Alamo's headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
The announcement by American, the industry leader, quickly set off an avalanche of similar changes by other airlines. But the shift by Alamo did not rouse its larger competitors to respond to the same degree. Hertz bested Alamo's daily rate for economy cars by a penny and Avis matched it at some locations. Otherwise, they are standing pat.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MacDonald Clark, Alamo's marketing man, and a company ad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ALAMO RENT-A-CAR INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALAMO RENT-A-CAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; RATES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); AIR FARES (64%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; CLARK, MACDONALD; CLARK, MACDONALD (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) MACDONALD CLARK (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



808 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: For One American, Britain Is the Land of Opportunity

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

DATELINE: WOLVERHAMPTON, England

 BODY:
Anne Evans wants to go home.
The British Government and tire dealers may be glad to have the 35-year-old American entrepreneur in this industrial city near Birmingham. But to hear her tell it, she was forced to come here to save her family's eastern Connecticut real estate business, which has been pushed to the brink by the recession. 
 "I have no choice. There are no opportunities at home," Mrs. Evans said.
The opportunity for her here was applying American technology to a problem that Britain is only now facing up to: discarded used tires. There are about 250 million stacked around the country and the piles are growing by about 21 million a year.
Mrs. Evans is heading a group that is building and will own Britain's first electricity-generating plant to use tires as fuel. As part of its diversification efforts, Nipsco Industries Inc., parent of Indiana's largest gas and electric utility, is providing the vast majority of the equity financing for the project as well as technical expertise.
Sites in Britain where tires can be dumped or buried have become scarce. And Britons are also discovering something that Americans have long known: not only can tire dumps be a nightmare if they catch fire like a nearby one did recently but they also serve as an ideal breeding ground for disease-carrying mosquitoes.
In 1990, the British Government decided to provide subsidies to encourage private companies to build tire-burning power plants. Projects like that -- which involve not only getting the plant built, arranging tire deliveries and selling the electricity -- are exactly what Mrs. Evans knows how to do.
She has advised the United States Government and tire industry on ways to dispose waste tires and served as a project consultant for a tire-fueled power plant in Sterling, Conn.
The $80 million plant being built here by Elm Energy and Recycling (U.K.) Ltd., the company that she founded and heads, will burn about 10 million tires a year to generate 25 megawatts of electricity, enough to supply 25,000 homes. Construction began in April and the plant should be completed by the fall of 1993. Its incinerators are being designed by Basic Environmental Engineering, an Illinois company.
Tire dealers can't wait for the plant to go into operation. "You can still find landfills for chopped tires but it's hard if not impossible to get them to take whole tires," said Carmel Prosser, an owner of Challenger Tyres, a local dealer and retreader that has get rid of 25,000 to 30,000 tires a year. It now has to pay up to 60 cents per tire for disposal. "Anne's plant will halve that," Ms. Prosser said with a big smile.
Mrs. Evans has also signed contracts with big tire-dealer chains owned by American and European corporations like Goodyear, Michelin, Dunlop, Pirelli, Continental and Shell.
It is stretching it to call Anne Evans a modern-day version of the people who fled from the Dust Bowl of the 1930's in search of work. She is not exactly destitute.
She was able to scrape up $250,000 to invest in the power-plant project. She also can afford to commute regularly to her home in Hebron, Conn., although she now only flies home twice a month instead of every weekend as she did for most of the two years she has been working on the project. Nevertheless, she is an economic refugee.
Long before coming here, Mrs. Evans was an entrepreneur in her own right. She built a tire dealership that her grandfather had founded into an international tire distributor and broker. It buys surplus tires from manufacturers and then gets them quickly to anyone around the world who needs particular tires in a jiffy.
Thanks to the recession, though, that business is barely in the black and is not generating nearly enough money to bail out the debt-laden real estate business that her husband, Russ, runs.
"I stuck with this project because the recession is so bad in Connecticut. It forced me to see this through the times I said it is more than I can bear."
She grimaced as she recalled the insults she had to tolerate from British bankers with dim views of entrepreneurs, especially female entrepreneurs.
She also has had the pleasure of contending with problems left behind by industrial concerns that inhabited the plant's six-acre site during the preceding centuries. There were coals mines to be filled and slag piles to be removed.
Whom does she blame for her family's financial woes? Mostly the New England banks that have sharply cut lending to would-be home buyers and real estate developers. "I hold them responsible for being so irresponsible in lending to all the big developers. Now those bad debts are biting all of us little guys," she said.
She insists that she doesn't think the Republicans or Democrats or a particular leader can be blamed for the recession. "We were all part of the 80's," she said. But when she discusses the Presidential election, it's obvious that her faith in the Republicans has been shaken. "I just can't say because I'm a Republican I'll vote Republican. I want to think long and hard about it," she said.
The fact that Mrs. Evans, a former Republican activist, feels this way would not seem to bode well for George Bush's chances for re-election. In the mid-1970's, she and her husband worked on the staff of Robert Steele, a Republican Congressman from Connecticut who lost the state's 1974 gubernatorial contest. In the late 70's, she was on the staff of the Republican National Congressional Campaign Committee, a fund-raising group.
With her bright green outfit, warm smile and exuberance about the power-plant project, Mrs. Evans initially comes across as an archetypal go-getter American entrepreneur.
But not very deep beneath that exterior lie the doubts about the future that now seem to pervade middle- and even upper-class America.
She told of a dinner party she had attended during a recent visit home. The 20 people there included a teacher, bankers, an insurance broker, realtors, a building contractor and other small-business owners. "There was nobody in that room who knew if in six months they would be employed or have a business," she said. "There was a lot of hopelessness.
"I was the lucky one. I was about to close on the bank financing for this project, which would remove the danger of us losing our house. I'm very fortunate because Britain's Department of Trade and Industry had invited me here and because I've got Nipsco, who thinks this is a neat project." Nipsco's backing helped Mrs. Evans secure $60 million in bank loans.
Nipsco is interested in working with Mrs. Evans to build additional European plants, said Stephen P. Adik, the company's chief financial officer and president of one of its two units responsible diversification. Nipsco, whose assets total about $3 billion, aims to increase the portion of its assets outside traditional utilities to 5 percent within four years from about 1.5 percent now.
He thinks the demand for such plants could be greater in Europe than in the United States because many existing coal-fired electric-power plants in America can use some tires as fuel while European plants cannot.
Mrs. Evans is already exploring the possibility of building a smaller tire-fueled power plant in Scotland and is interested in another in Belgium. That sounds a bit surprising given how she claims to be pining for her husband and her dog, a white Samoyed named Oscar Bear whose photos adorn her office.
"I don't want this to happen again. I want everything I own never again to be at risk," she explained. "That dream is affordable if I do this horribleness for three more years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Evans, entrepreneur from Connecticut, at one of the British retreaders which will sell scrap tires to her. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: NI (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (91%); 

COMPANY: ELM ENERGY & RECYCLING (UK) LTD; NIPSCO INDUSTRIES INC NISOURCE INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELM ENERGY & RECYCLING (UK) LTD; NIPSCO INDUSTRIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; GREAT BRITAIN UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); ENGLAND (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; TIRES ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TIRE DISPOSAL & RECYCLING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); TIRE DEALERS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); TIRES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE FUELS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); FIRES (73%); TIRE RETREADING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); LANDFILLS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (53%); EQUITY FINANCING (52%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (50%); 

PERSON: EVANS, ANNE; PROKESCH, STEVEN ANNE EVANS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



809 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Caterpillar's White-Collar Lessons

SERIES: First of two articles on structural changes in work.

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
The contrast in images couldn't be harsher. Two weeks ago, the strikers at Caterpillar gathered in lines five-angry-and-noisy-men deep at plant gates. Last week, solidarity made moot, they shuffled back to work, accepting Caterpillar's terms while talks on a new contract continue.
Middle-class, white-collar workers may see nothing but losers and monster-truck-racing fans in the group, instead of events involving an institution that once wielded the power to protect its members from portal to portal and cradle to grave. Why should a corporate employee care whether a company breaks with its tradition of relatively cordial worker relations to play hardball and bring a manufacturing union to heel? Labor economists and employment experts warn that the experience of Caterpillar's workers may be a harbinger for white-collar employees. 
 "The implicit social contract between employers and employees has changed," said Carrie Leana, an associate professor at the graduate school of business at the University of Pittsburgh. "What used to be thought of as ruthless isn't anymore. That is true for accountants as well as steelworkers." She added: "It used to matter to companies that an employee had worked there for 10 or 20 years. It doesn't matter anymore."
Clearly it mattered more, say, 30 years ago, when more than 35 percent of the work force was unionized, a figure that has dropped to 16 percent. But did it matter because so many workers were unionized and seniority was institutionalized or because the world was a nicer place?
Experts find the precise impact of unions difficult to assess. At the very least, there was the "threats" effect. "Nonunion companies were always looking over their shoulders," said Stanley Aronowitz, a sociology professor at the City University of New York, "worried about what unions might do."
For example, labor's decision to fight for pensions and benefits in the immediate post-World War II period shaped the private pension system nationally. "The unions pushed for pensions, which were matched for white-collar workers," said Richard Freeman, an economist at Harvard University.
The impact of the decline in unionization is already being felt in some quantifiable ways. According to Richard Belous, senior economist at the National Planning Association, in 1980, 50 percent of the work force was covered by a pension; by 1993, he estimates, that will drop to 40 percent.
The decline is also being seen in an increase in wage inequality as the practice of "pattern bargaining," or pegging wage demands to compensation at other companies in a particular industry, comes under attack. The practice -- the major issue in the Caterpillar-United Auto Workers strike -- became a model for compensation throughout corporate America.
"The breakdown of pattern bargaining means you are more dependent on your company," Dr. Freeman said, adding, "It may put blue- and white-collar people together. It's more Japanese-style. You get both the benefits and detriments."
The distinct shades of collar colors, long cherished by white-collar workers, especially those moving up the hierarchy from one generation to the next, is another likely casualty of union decline. Barry Bluestone, a professor of political economy at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, sees a blurring of lines now that workers are no longer tethered to a machine. "Now blue-collar workers are in teams," he said, "they are given more discretion and they have some decision-making powers."
Improvements for blue-collar workers have occurred while white-collar workers have become more vulnerable. "They would be less so if they were unionized," said Adrienne Eaton, a labor studies professor at Rutgers Unversity.
In the United States -- unlike in other industrialized countries -- white-collar resistance to unionization is extensive. But even when the current downturn passes, few labor experts believe workplace relations will be as amicable as in the high-growth period after World War II -- or that employer generosity will be restored. "I am a white-collar worker," said Dr. Leana of the University of Pittsburgh. "It makes me nervous to see the balance of interests between employees and employers so out of whack."
 
 
 
WHERE MOST MANAGERS FIT IN
 For their continued employment, white-collar workers typically depend more on the kindness of market forces than the contractual relationship that inheres between labor and management. That fact may leave lower- and middle-managers, the bulk of the white-collar work force, particularly maladapted for a new order in employee-employer relations.
"White-collar workers in the current climate are vulnerable to layoffs and job insecurity and cutbacks," said Adrienne Eaton of Rutgers Unversity. The current climate -- a recessionary economy -- is likely to change, but the new corporate lean-and-mean ethos is not, and that leaves many corporate white-collar workers feeling betrayed. The people emblematic of the good times -- deal-doers and chief executives with astronomical compensation and platinum parachutes -- represent a portion of the white-collar work force roughly the size of a paramecium.
"C.E.O.'s have nothing to do with white-collar workers," said Carrie Leana, who with Daniel Feldman is the author of "Coping With Job Loss," a study of layoffs. "They are an aristocracy of managers. That is not the way life is for most managers." Lower- and middle-management, she contends, have more in common with the Caterpillar workers than with C.E.O.'s in terms of how they are treated and their prospects, a reality many managers find painful. "They believed in the system more," Dr. Leana said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In this case, it was East Peoria, Ill., and Caterpillar workers on strike. The message has wider applications. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3532 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); CATERPILLAR INC HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); CATERPILLAR INC INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SURVEYS AND SERIES; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS; LABOR UNIONS; STRIKES STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); SALARY SURVEYS (62%); SPORTS FANS (56%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: LEANA, CARRIE (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



810 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 44; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Northwestern;
A Charity That Never Filed A Tax Return

DATELINE: EVANSTON, Ill.

 BODY:
Northwestern University's largest student-run organization, which has raised about $1.5 million for charity in its 18 years of operation, never filed for tax-exempt status and never filed tax returns. It may thus be liable for thousands of dollars in taxes and penalties, according to tax experts.
If the organization, Dance Marathon, registers now with state and Federal authorities, the $1.5 million could be looked upon as taxable income, or Dance Marathon could ask to be retroactively declared tax-exempt, tax experts say. Either way, the experts say, it still could be liable for up to $75,000 in penalties. 
 And Harvey Dale, director of the New York University Law School program on philanthropy and the law, said that, without the exemption, the organization's donors may not be able to take a tax deduction for their contributions.
 
Reported in Student Paper
 Dance Marathon's failure to obtain tax-exempt status was reported last week by the campus newspaper, The Daily Northwestern, which was investigating how the organization dispenses the money it raises.
Dance Marathon is a 30-hour dance marathon held each winter for which student groups raise money to send contestants; the money benefits one charity each year. The unpaid student staff of 24 executive board members and 400 committee members spends the year planning the event. The organization has an office in the student center, but receives no money from the student government or Northwestern.
It is the "largest all-student-run activity at Northwestern," said the organization's publicity co-chairwoman, Amy Falk, a senior in communication studies from Hickory Hills, Ill. The organization said some 20,000 students and community members attended this year's event, which raised $273,000 in cash and prizes. Of that, $200,000 went to the American Diabetes Association; of the remaining money, $18,000 was for overhead and $55,000 was the value of donated prizes and food at the event.
A university student activities adviser attends its meetings and "helps with contracts and answers questions about administrative things," Ms. Falk said. The adviser works for and is appointed by the Norris University Center, and appointments can change every year, said Bruce Kaiser, the center's director.
This year's adviser, Karin Lacour, did not return repeated telephone calls. But Mr. Kaiser said that he did not believe she knew about the failure to file tax returns.
 
First Event in 1975
 The history of Dance Marathon is sketchy and its tax status all these years is unclear. It began in 1975 as an event sponsored by the Associated Student Government and Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. In 1977, a group of students formed a permanent organization that worked to plan the event. Ms. Falk said that nothing else is known about the group's origins.
To receive tax-exempt status an organization must file within 15 months of its founding, tax experts said, which Dance Marathon's founders failed to do.
Bryan Turriff, the group's new general co-chairman, said a financial manager with the student center, George Dooley, told him earlier this week that the organization is covered by the university's tax-exempt status.
But Ingrid Stafford, Northwestern's controller, told The Daily Northwestern that Dance Marathon's money is held in trust by the university and is not included on its annual tax return. Ms. Stafford has declined further comment.
Should the organization be challenged by the I.R.S., the cost could be steep. "The penalty for failure to file is $10 a day with a cap at $5,000 per taxable year for which you did not file a return," said Michael A. Clark, a a tax lawyer and partner in the Chicago law firm Hopkins & Sutter. "The I.R.S. doesn't always go that aggressively after charitable organizations, but it is a risk that the organization might get hit with these penalties."
The university's legal counsel is looking into what action, if any, the university should take, said Kenneth Wildes, director of university relations.
Karen Zelmar, the current Dance Marathon co-chairwoman, told The Daily Northwestern earlier this month that Dance Marathon is covered by the charities it benefits and need not file tax returns. Ms. Zelmar, a junior in economics from Deerfield, Ill., has also declined further comment.
But Leo Senus, director of finance for the Leukemia Society of America, whose Illinois chapter has benefited from Dance Marathon, said, "We do not allow anybody to claim our exemption as theirs for fund-raising purposes. I've never heard of that being done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DANCE MARATHON (ORGN); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (96%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE MARATHON (ORGN); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (96%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PHILANTHROPY; TAX EXEMPTIONS TAX EXEMPTIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: AMY FALK (61%); BRUCE KAISER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



811 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 58; Column 1; Style Desk; Pastimes Page

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Coins

BYLINE: By Jed Stevenson

 BODY:

For Buyers and Dreamers
Coin shows are the dress balls of the hobby. Everyone attending gets a chance to meet other collectors. Impromptu talks are given on just about every numismatic topic, and scheduled lectures are usually presented in some side room. Dealers in almost every conceivable type of coin or medal display their pieces side by side with their competitors, and showgoers wander the aisles, fiddling with one coin after another, lusting, dreaming and sometimes buying. 
 One of the best of the coin shows, a three-day event run by the Greater New York Numismatic Convention, opens on May 7 at the Omni Park Central Hotel, Seventh Avenue at 56th Street in Manhattan.
It will feature a three-part auction of United States paper currency, including the curious fractional currency that circulated in the mid-19th century in lieu of coins. The auction is being presented by Stack's.
Medals and United States coins will also be sold, especially Washington and Lincoln medals, which were struck by private mints both to commemorate the two Presidents and to capitalize on their popularity. Strangely, most of the Washington medals were minted in England shortly after Washington had orchestrated the Colonies' victory in the war of independence.
John Kleeburg, the curator of modern coinage at the American Numismatic Society, will speak at 1 P.M. on Saturday, May 9, on the evolution of Germany's silver thaler into today's dollar.
A special children's program, from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. on Saturday, will include various exhibitions and speeches, culminating in a free lunch and an auction of real coins bought with play money.
The show is free. For more information: Moe Weinschel at (718) 634-2240.
 
Honoring Columbus
 The Newark Museum has just opened an exhibition of Early American and European copper, silver and gold coins. The show, in honor of the 500th anniversary of Columbus's stumbling on the Americas in his westward search for the Orient, also includes coinage, maps and artifacts from the early colonization of the New World.
William L. Bischoff, the show's curator, draws from the Newark Museum's very fine collection of coins, one of the best in the East. It's being held in the C. Malcolm Davis Numismatic Gallery through Feb. 14, 1993.
The museum is at 49 Washington Street in downtown Newark. PATHtrains run directly to downtown Newark from the World Trade Center every 20 to 30 minutes. From elsewhere in Manhattan, the trains run at about the same frequency but require a transfer at Journal Square in Jersey City.
 
Four-Footed Friends

Various mints around the world rely on the minting and selling of various motif coins. These are considered bullion coins, because their worth is related to the value of the metal they contain. As investments, they rarely appreciate with anywhere near the rapidity of other more established collectibles like old coins or stamps. Nevertheless, they remain an important supplier of income for some very small economies, and they are a source of amusement for their collectors.
Currently, Gibraltar is offering designs in gold and silver that will appeal to dog lovers. The first of a series of dog coins features Queen Elizabeth II's favorite breed, the Welsh corgi. It's a low-slung herding dog bred to nip at the heels of cattle, while its shortness enables it to avoid any kicking hooves. Its portrait adorns the reverse, while the Queen's is on the obverse.
Another series in gold and silver, this one from the Isle of Man, depicts cats. This series is well established, entering its fifth year of issue with its fifth design. This year's star is the Siamese.
Both the dog and cat designs are available in 24-karat gold in sizes ranging from one twenty-fifth of an ounce of gold to the largest, the one-ounce size. Prices range from about $30 for the smallest size to about $365 for the largest. More information on prices and purchasing is available from the MTB Banking Corporation at (212) 858-3300 or (800) 535-7481.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gold bullion coin from Gibraltar, with Queen Elizabeth II on the obverse and her favorite dog, the Welsh corgi, on the reverse. (MTB Banking Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3644 NONCURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: OMNI (SAN JOSE CA) (57%); OMNI (HARAHAN LA) (57%); NEW WORLD LIBRARY (52%); NEW WORLD WINES (52%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (52%); AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (54%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NUMISMATICS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) COINS & COINAGE (93%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, JED ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



812 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 43; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Cornell;
Project Studies Social Adaptation Of Korean Grocers

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
In an unusual combination of classroom and field work, a Cornell University class here is studying the cultural adjustment of Korean grocers in New York City.
The 15 students enrolled in "Modernization and the Korean Family," 13 of whom are themselves Korean-Americans, spent the better part of their winter break in Manhattan, conducting interviews with 100 grocers based on extensive questionnaires they developed in the fall semester. 
 There are about 2,400 Korean grocers in New York City, and this was the most comprehensive study of the city's Korean population in a decade, said David McCann, a professor of Korean literature who helps teach the class.
The other instructor, Jeanne Mueller, a professor of human-service studies, said, "This was designed as a course in which students would learn about their ethnic heritage and understand research methodology first semester, and then get out in the field and learn from the field experimental method as well as in classroom lectures."
The students are spending this semester compiling and coding their data. By the end of this semester they will present their preliminary findings to student and faculty groups. Professor Mueller said she would analyze the data this summer and issue a report.
 
Greater Hopes for Daughters
 "A majority of the grocers came here for political freedom and for economic reasons and to get what they consider to be a better education and more opportunities for their children," Professor Mueller said, noting that "they had the same aspirations for both sons and daughters, even though in Korean culture girls are supposed to get married and have kids."
Yet, she said, the students found that most grocers and their families maintain strong ties with relatives overseas, and that most regularly read a Korean language newspaper.
"Most of our parents were in similar situations," said David Kim, a class participant and senior in economics from Over Land Park, Kan. Such parallels, he said, helped many of the students relate to what the grocers had experienced.
Mr. Kim said he enrolled in the course because it "looked at the traditional values of Korea, and how the immigration process affects the status of that culture in America." Mr. Kim was born in Korea and came to the United States with his family when he was 2 years old.
While in New York City, the students were divided into seven groups to conduct their interviews. At least one member of each group spoke fluent Korean, which the students said encouraged the grocers to trust them.
 
Strength of Korean Culture
 "These interviews were 110 questions long and were taking up more than an hour of their time, and we just weren't confident they would be receptive," said Yeon Shim, a senior in biology from Elizabeth, N.J.
The students said they were struck by the strength of the Korean grocers' cultural ties with home -- many are supporting families in Korea -- and by the 70-hour weeks that they devoted to running their stores.
One non-Korean student said the project helped her to better understand her own culture. "It makes you put in perspective your own experience, and appreciate everything you have," said Elizabeth Vega, a senior in human development and family studies who grew up in Mexico and whose family now lives in Los Angeles.
While the course's instructors said the project's findings were intriguing, the immediate purpose of the course was more utilitarian: it was intended to teach students how to combine research methods, field work and cultural analysis.
"The most interesting part of the whole thing is how excited the students have been," Professor McCann said. "It's like surfing a great wave."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (74%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: KOREAN-AMERICANS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FAMILY (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); LITERATURE (72%); CHILDREN (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: JEANNE MUELLER (75%); DAVID KIM (71%); DAVID MCCANN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



813 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 45; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Skidmore;
Students Start Fund to Enhance Curiculum

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y.

 BODY:
A group of Skidmore students have decided that while talking about a multicultural curriculum is cheap, financing research into multicultural course materials is a more effective way to change the curriculum on campus.
Those students, banded together in the year-old student group called Risen (for Reforms in Student Education Now), recently presented a $600 check to Skidmore's board as the first installment of a fund to expand the multicultural aspects of faculty research. 
 David H. Porter, the college's president, has matched the contribution with college funds.
"It's important to continue talk," said the organization's founder, David Murphy, a junior who is an English major from Amherst, Mass., "and it's important to continue action. So we decided to put our money where our mouths are."
Mr. Murphy said Risen plans to raise an additional $1,400 at this month's benefit concert and through donations from campus clubs and organizations.
In a letter accompanying the check, Risen members said the money is to be used for "summer faculty development programs that will enable interested faculty members to learn how to incorporate into their classes issues of race, ethnicity, and gender, as well as a more diverse pool of authors and contributors within their respective fields."
 
'Groundwork Has Been Laid'
 The money will "direct curricular enhancement," said Phyllis Roth, the dean of faculty.
"The groundwork has been laid," Ms. Roth said. "There is a cadre of faculty we know would be interested" in a program this summer.
She said that with the initial installment, Skidmore plans to sponsor at least one faculty member to develop a new course or revise an existing one.
The new or revised courses will focus on issues of diversity of experience in the United States, said Sandra Baum, an economics professor and the college's associate affirmative action officer.
Efforts such as that of Risen will eventually provide the on-campus workshops and expert speakers needed for intensive faculty training, Professor Baum said, adding, "It's wonderful that the students have raised this money. Taking this action shows how much the issue means to them."
The college's Committee on Educational Policies and Planning has also been discussing changes in the curriculum and the development of new courses geared toward increased awareness of multicultural issues. But Mr. Porter said, "It really is a stimulus of a special kind. It's a useful thing to have students say, 'We know funds are limited but we, too, think the academic part is so important to the college, and we are willing to raise money.' "
Mr. Murphy and several friends founded Risen in the spring of 1991 in response to what he said was "a lack of support curricularly and socially for minorities."
"People were complaining, but no one was doing anything to change the situation," he said. "I really see it as a part of everyone's education to learn about people who are different from ourselves."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE COLLEGE

ORGANIZATION: SKIDMORE COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESEARCH; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); ETHNICITY (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (65%); 

PERSON: DAVID D MURPHY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



814 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK REGION;
Dinkins Barnstorms, and the Barn Burns

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
In what initially appeared to be a major turnaround for financially strapped New York City, Mayor David N. Dinkins spent much of last week announcing good budget news in a political barnstorming act that took him from the Bronx to Brooklyn and back to City Hall. In a series of optimistic speeches, he announced that libraries would be open longer hours, that new health clinics would be built, new tuberculosis programs would be created, and other improvements in city services would be made.
But the recovery abruptly dissipated by week's end when the Dinkins administration, seeking to quell growing euphoria over the news, said that despite a big budget surplus the city was still in poor fiscal health and could not afford to share any of its windfall with the many constituencies who emerged to lay claim to it. 
 Leaders of the city's municipal labor unions, which are all working without contracts, demanded wage increases and accused the Mayor of distorting the budget outlook to get concessions from them.
State lawmakers said the surplus meant that the city no longer needed the $115 million tax package it is has been lobbying for.
The furor was a dose of political reality for Mr. Dinkins, who after two years of unpopular budget cuts had sought to bring good tidings as his reelection campaign approaches. He may have grossly underestimated the skepticism and anger with which the good news would be received.
The administration undoubtedly raised false hopes by disclosing both that the city would restore hundreds of millions of dollars in planned cuts in the budget for construction and that it would end the fiscal year with a $455 million surplus. The two developments are essentially unrelated, but disclosing them in the same week created the impression that they were.
The programs that Mr. Dinkins announced last week -- 20 clinics offering the poor an alternative to emergency rooms, money for stalled public works projects, restored library hours, tax credits for businesses who give to cultural institutions -- represent less than $50 million in a budget of $29 billion. The programs result from cost savings due to financial rejiggering, not from the surplus, which stems from penny-pinching cost control measures and pessimistic forecasts of tax revenues.
"Labor organizations, advocates and constituents are thinking, 'Oh, well there's all this money floating around and we should be able to spend it on what we need,' " said First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel. "That is clearly not the case, and there should be no false sense of euphoria because we continue to have very pressing problems."
The entire surplus will be rolled over into the next fiscal year. It will be used for two things, Mr. Steisel said: to avoid borrowing $250 million in a bond refinancing that was opposed by the agencies that evaluate the city's creditworthiness, and to replace $200 million in Federal aid that the city did not receive. Budget officials estimate that the city will need to close a $1.8 billion deficit in next year's $29 billion budget.
Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, said that there was no attempt by the administration to manipulate public perception. "Everybody knows things are not all fine and dandy," he said. "Some would say that we are the victim of our own impression, but you might also argue that we are a victim of the media, which uncovered and reported the surplus without our announcing it."
The city has had budget surpluses for 12 years, although the last two have been small and have been rolled over into the next year.
Allen J. Proctor, executive director of the Financial Control Board, which monitors the city's finances, said that the Dinkins administration has a "perception problem that needs to be reversed.
"And I hope they can reverse it because the facts are on their side," he said. He praised the administration's plan to use the surplus to avoid borrowing and to replace Federal funds.
 
Good News and Bad
 Alair A. Townsend, former budget director and deputy mayor for finance and economic development in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, said that a surplus is both "the best news and the worst news that you could give the Mayor because the first thing people will do is accuse the budget director of not being able to count."
The Dinkins administration has vowed not to grant raises to union workers without productivity gains. When he learned of the latest surplus, Stanley Hill, president of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees District Council 37, accused the administration of negotiating in bad faith. "They simply have not been telling us the truth," he said.
The unions' anger was echoed by Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, who demanded that the city explain where the surplus came from and warned that the administration may have jeopardized its relationship with labor.
To avoid misunderstandings like this, Ms. Townsend, who is now the publisher of Crain's New York, a business journal, said that it is vital for budget officials to explain early to elected officials and labor leaders that surpluses are not generally there for the taking.
"There's no trickery going on here with the Dinkins administration because we have always had surpluses," she said. "This one just happens to come at a time when we are still in very poor financial condition."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MAYORS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SIMS, CALVIN DAVID N DINKINS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



815 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: The Global Economy's Engines Are Out of Tune and Sputtering

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE haphazard spectacle of what is called the world economy seems to operate like some Rube Goldberg contraption, with lags and lurches, ups and downs. An economic surge or slump in one country yields an effect in another, often unforeseen or unintended. And lately, the machine's engine appears to be sputtering.
In the United States, the economy has recovered from being flat on its back to being up on its knees -- not much of a recovery. Germany is saddled with a very un-Germanic budget deficit, inflation and high interest rates, mainly the result of generous spending to bring eastern Germany along. Even Japan has lost its vigor. 
 The gathering in Washington today of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrial nations convenes at a time of diminished expectations. Last Wednesday, the International Monetary Fund cut its estimate of world growth in 1992 by nearly half, to a sluggish 1.4 percent, down from the 2.7 percent forecast last October. And also last week, Treasury Undersecretary David C. Mulford conceded "growth this year will be significantly below potential and inadequate to reduce high levels of unemployment in many countries."
So things are sluggish in general, but how closely are the world's major economies linked? How concerned should Americans be that the Japanese stock market has lost about 50 percent of its value since the end of 1989? Pessimists warn that deflation in Japan could reverberate as Japanese banks, invested heavily in Tokyo shares and property, cut back lending abroad, slowing growth in the West.
To say that we live in a global economy has become a modern mantra. But just what it means isn't so clear. Surely, the flows of goods, services and money across borders have increased greatly during the postwar years. The major economies are much more open -- and exposed -- to developments in other countries than they were a few decades ago. For example, imports and exports now represent 21 percent of the American economy, up from 9 percent in 1959. Yet the economic interdependence of nations is just beginning to return to the levels of the turn of the century, before the two world wars and the Depression squelched world trade and international investment.
Postwar history is filled with looming disasters that never materialized or proved far less threatening than originally imagined. In the late 1940's and early 1950's, experts warned that a "dollar shortage" would mean insufficient capital for a postwar recovery. After currencies were set afloat to be priced by market rates, there were dire warnings that national economies would be destabilized as currency values rose or fell endlessly. The oil-price shocks of the 1970's prompted the challenge of "petrodollar recycling" and fears that Arab nations would own the world. The third world debt crisis was said to threaten the banking system, and so on.
Yet rarely have international problems had as much impact on the American economy as home-grown travails -- big Government deficits, the savings and loan crisis. "But foreign devils, or exotic global forces, are more plausible villains than humdrum domestic problems," said Paul Krugman, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Still, the links among national economies are real and increasing. Take Japan's predicament. Its asset prices have fallen precipitously, hurting Japanese banks and companies, because the government decided in 1990 to crimp the supply of money and credit. The government did that to deflate the speculative bubble of soaring stock and property prices. The previous runup was the result of another government remedy: Tokyo's decision starting in 1986 to roughly double the growth rate of Japan's money supply and to cut interest rates.
Tokyo's easy-money policy, in turn, was an effort to soften the blow from the "yen shock," the sharp rise in the value of the yen after the leading industrial nations decided in September 1985, at a meeting at the Plaza Hotel in New York, that the value of the United States dollar should be pushed down and other major currencies up. The yen shock was the expected blow to Japan's export economy as a result of the sharp shift in currency values, making Japanese exports much more expensive. Japanese exporters proved quite nimble in adjusting to the stronger yen, but the government's monetary generosity meant more money was chasing Japanese property and shares, fueling the 1986-90 speculative boom.
Next, look at America. By September 1985, Washington wanted a cheaper dollar to stem the yawning United States trade deficit and rescue the Rust Belt, which was being eviscerated by cheaper imports from abroad. The decision marked an abrupt reversal of policy for the Reagan Administration, which had long held that a strong dollar proved America's economic prowess. The dollar peaked in early 1985, well before the Plaza agreement, but the intervention by central bankers and adjustment of interest rates accelerated the downward trend.
By the third quarter of 1986, the dollar's value in foreign exchange markets had dropped to 156 yen, down from 258 yen in early 1985. The policy prodding worked so well that by 1987, the major industrial countries were alarmed at the possibility that the dollar would go into a free fall. The governments agreed to try to ease the dollar's descent through coordination of interest rates and central bank buying and selling, which is more or less what happened. Today, the dollar is worth about 135 yen, and the dollar has fallen similarly since 1985 against the German mark, the other benchmark currency.
Sure enough, America's exports to the rest of the world have doubled since 1985 to $422 billion last year. Indeed, the robust export performance has been one of the few bright spots in the American economy in recent years. "The strong export growth was one of the reasons the U.S. economy sailed through the 1987 stock market crash with hardly a flutter," said Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
In Europe, economic expectations changed markedly in 1986, when the 12-nation European Community agreed to form a single market by the end of 1992. In an investment boom, as companies scrambled to get ready, talk of Eurosclerosis -- sluggish growth and rising unemployment -- was replaced by Europhoria. Europe got another fillip in 1990 from the unification of the two Germanys, and the subsequent surge in spending by Bonn to absorb its poorer eastern cousin. "What Western capitalists could never do -- get Germany to really stimulate its economy -- the Germans did because of the collapse of Communism," said Robert Z. Lawrence, an economist at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.
But the German spending spree has been followed by a hangover with consequences for other nations. The government spending raised Germany's budget deficit and inflation. To control inflationary pressures, Germany raised its interest rates to the highest levels since the 1930's. Because Britain, France and other European economies are tied to Bonn via the European Monetary System, they are forced to follow Germany's lead, depressing growth throughout Europe. "Those countries can't escape that international financial discipline anymore," noted Mr. Lawrence of Harvard.
Both politics and economics are enlarging the global marketplace for goods and capital. The former Communist states seem destined to become full-fledged members while developing giants like China and India are opening up. "The economic interdependence we see today is minuscule compared to what we're going to have in the next decade or so," said David Hale, chief economist of Kemper Financial Services Inc.


GRAPHIC: How the effects of economic summits and international developments have rippled through the economies of Japan, Germany and the United States
 
Bonn Summit - 1978: The major ecnomic powers ask Japan and West Germany to stimulate their economies. The U.S., whose trade deficit is climbing, hopes that this will boost economies worldwide.
 
1983 to 1985 - The Dollar's Ascent: Investors funnel funds into the U.S., attracted by strong growth and high interest rates. As the dollar increases in value, U.S. products become more expensive overseas. Exports plunge. The Reagan Administration does nothing to stem the dollar's rise.
 
Plaza Agreement - 1985: The U.S. decides that the dollar is too strong, and the other major economic powers agree. The central banks intervene, helping to push the dollar down rapidly and bring the yen and the German mark up.
 
Late 1985 to early 1987 - Yen Shock: The stronger yen makes Japanese products more costly in foreign markets, reducing sales abroad. To soften the impact on its economy, Tokyo eases monetary policy. But the easy-money situation means more funds are chasing assets at home, starting the sharp run-up in the Japanese stock market and in property prices.
 
Late 1980's - Tokyo's Spending Spree: The more muscular yen makes foreign investments cheaper for Japanese companies and investors. In the U.S., the Japanese buy everything from U.S. Treasury bonds to the Pebble Beach golf course. Japanese corporations buy several American companies and build dozens of factories in the U.S.
 
1990 - Hitting the Brakes: Concern for the astronomical jump in real estate and stock prices causes the Japanese central bank to tighten monetary policy to cool an overheated economy.
 
Now - Japanese Slump: The Japanese economy begins to contract. Property Prices and the stock market plummet. Bad loans held by Japanese banks could prompt them to lend less overseas, possibly tightening the credit crunch in places like California.
 
1986 - Europe Unites: The agreement that the 12 nations of Western Europe would unify their economies by 1992 prompts many companies to invest in the future marketplace. Expanding companies purchase more U.S. goods, like computers.
 
1990 - Communism Collapses: West Germany spends heavily to absorb its poorer eastern sister. The added spending boosts growth in Germany and Europe, but the German budget deficit rises and inflation heats up.
 
Now - Stagnation in Europe: Germany hikes interest rates to curb inflation. But higher German rates worsen the economic weakness in neighboring countries like Britain and France. They cannot cut interest rates to stimulate growth because Germany is the dominant economic power in the European Monetary System; other European nations must follow the lead of the German central bank.
 
Late 1980's - Resurgence of American Manufacturing: With a weaker dollar, U.S. manufacturers that survived the tough times begin to find that they are competitive again in export markets. The growth in exports helps cushion the economic shock waves from the 1987 stock market crash.
 
Now - A Bright Spot: U.S. exports more than doubled from 1985 to 1991. Exports remain one of the few bright areas in the economic picture.
 
Drawings
Chronology: "Trickling Down"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CURRENCIES (84%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



816 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Why It's Proven Difficult To Make Qaddafi Give In

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
Despite all the maneuvering, the standoff continues over Libya's refusal to surrender two purported bombers of Pan Am flight 103. So far, say Western officials in London and Rome, there have been no cracks in the embargo mandated by the United Nations Security Council two weeks ago. But neither has Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi handed over the two men for trial outside Libya.
Like Saddam Hussein during the gulf crisis, Colonel Qaddafi has elected to hang tough, even though there is little obvious solace to be drawn from the example of Iraq; if a global coalition dominated by the United States could drive Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait by force, it can be reasoned, why should the same array of forces unravel on the far less risky issue of punishing Libya? 
 But the parallel is incomplete. The Libyan affair is far more ambiguous than Iraq's invasion of Kuwait; the prizes are far smaller and the stakes not nearly so high.
On April 15, the United Nations Security Council ordered a ban on airline flights and arms supplies to Libya and a reduction of diplomatic contact. Its aim was to force Mr. Qaddafi to deliver two Libyans, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, whom American and British intelligence agencies hold responsible for downing Pan Am flight 103.
Perversely, it is in part because Operation Desert Storm became such a clear and largely successful show of American will in the post-cold war era that this latest coalition has run into crosscurrents of divergent interest around the Mediterranean: For some, once was enough.
In the salons of Cairo and Damascus, and among Palestinians, moreover, the talk has again turned to resentment of what is seen as an American-led manipulation of the United Nations to the detriment of the broader Arab nation. "Egypt's interests are part of Arab interests," the Egyptian President, Hosni Mubarak, said after meeting with Colonel Qaddafi last week.
And Syria, for its part, abandoned the temporary, pro-Western image it adopted during the gulf war and openly sought to send a passenger flight to Tripoli. The plan was aborted when other nations refused overflight rights, but Syria's President, Hafez el-Assad (a dictator who could one day conceivably face sanctions himself), had used the moment to promote himself as a rallying point for those who feel American pressures in the region have simply become too cavalier.
Even among the West's strongest Arab allies, notably Egypt, the level of single-minded enthusiasm that marked the gulf coalition seems much reduced. Last week, when President Mubarak met Colonel Qaddafi near their border, the Egyptian emerged saying there was still a "ray of hope" to untangle the dispute.
Simply by meeting the Libyan leader, Mr. Mubarak seemed to be signaling his own country's special interest in maintaining some stability in its western neighbor. Over a million Egyptians work there and, for several years, Mr. Mubarak has tried to coax Colonel Qaddafi into respectability. The last thing he wants to reap from those efforts is chaos on his border, inviting a resurgence of the militant Islamic fundamentalism that he and Colonel Qaddafi have both assiduously suppressed.
To many in the Middle East and Europe, the Libyan affair is far more opaque than the invasion of Kuwait. If the Libyan agents are handed over to stand trial and make free disclosures about what they know, who else -- and which other lands -- will they implicate? Libya, after all, is only the most recent culprit cited in the Pan Am massacre. For several years, American policy -- and investigators -- held Syria and Iran responsible.
 
Diverse Interests
 In the drive to force the extradition of the two men, Britain and France are leading the Europeans, and both have their reasons. Pan Am 103 crashed over Lockerbie, Scotland, on a flight from London to New York in 1988; French investigators accuse Libya of complicity in the downing of a French UTA airliner over the Sahara in 1989. The two disasters killed a total of 441 people.
But European countries approach Colonel Qaddafi from markedly different perspectives.
In 1986, Europe was left divided by an American bombing raid on Tripoli. Margaret Thatcher's Britain -- angered then as much as now by Libyan support of the Irish Republican Army -- agreed to the use of British bases for the raid, but France refused overflight rights. Today, Spain, Germany and Italy have strong economic interests in Libya and have privately opposed any tightening of the current sanctions into a trade embargo affecting Libya's high-quality oil. Spain imports one-fifth of its liquefied natural gas from Libya, while Italy buys over a quarter of its oil there. Italian companies are closely intertwined with Libya's oil industry. And, as the former colonial master, Rome enjoys an odd love-hate relationship: when, a few years back, Colonel Qaddafi lifted import restrictions, one of the first things Libyans bought was Italian ice cream machines.
Economics, history and a perilously close proximity across the Mediterranean, thus, dictate a particularly delicate relationship between Rome and Tripoli.
For all that, and despite its private disquiet, Italy, like other Europeans, has gone along with the present levels of pressure. The Italian Air Force scrambled two warplanes to warn off a Libyan airliner approaching its airspace, and six Libyan diplomats have been expelled. Alitalia's lucrative Rome-Tripoli flights have been suspended. Neither does Italy wish to be perceived as the soft underbelly of European resolve. "We think that escalation is always dangerous," a senior Italian official said, "but if you have to choose between escalation and terrorism, we choose escalation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya at a meeting last week with President Hosni Mubarak in the Egyptian coastal town Sidi Barani. (Frederic Neema/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (76%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (76%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL) HOSNI MUBARAK (84%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



817 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK REGION;
Immigrants Jam Schools, Invigorating a System

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Despite turn-of-the-century photographs of hollow-eyed Jewish and Italian children gazing at their teachers with gratitude and zeal, history presents a less rose-tinted picture of immigrants in the New York public schools.
The swarms of children in the Lower East Side ghetto were often crammed into classrooms of 60, and truancy and delinquency were rife. Reading and math scores plummeted and history classes were curtailed so more English could be taught. A 1911 Teachers College study shows that only 60 percent of elementary school children went on to high school; even the most ardent pupils had to work to support their families. 
 But history also shows that waves of immigration have enlivened New York's schools at the same time as they have overwhelmed them. The news two weeks ago that 120,000 immigrant children from 167 countries have entered the city's schools over the last three years was greeted as a sign of renewal as robust as the cherry and apple blossoms coloring the cityscape.
During the 1970's and 80's, the city's schools had seemed doomed to fade slowly, hurt by the middle class's steady exodus to the suburbs, by fiscal cuts, decaying buildings and a growing population of poor youngsters from chaotic families.
Now immigrant families from the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Russia, Guyana, China and other countries have rejuvenated some floundering schools.
Many families are fleeing political oppression or poverty. "Every time there's an upheaval anywhere in the world, the schools in New York are the first to absorb it," says Mitchell L. Moss, director of New York University's Urban Research Center.
Some arrive illiterate even in their native languages. But others, says Dr. Emanuel Tobier, an economics professor at N.Y.U., are among the most ambitious and best educated of their compatriots, with an enormous craving to make it and an energizing fear of catastrophe if they don't.
Seward Park, the Lower East Side's neighborhood high school, was for a long time a place to avoid, but an influx of Chinese and Latin American students has brightened its academic tone. The annual dropout rate, for example, fell from 13.5 percent in the 1982-83 school year to 10.7 percent in 1989-90.
The prestigious Westinghouse national science competition is still dominated by New York City schools, as it has been since it began in the 1940's, but the faces have changed. Winning often requires working after school in a laboratory for two years, and many of the recent winners hungry enough to do that have been the children of immigrants from China, India and the Soviet Union.
Soundings like these, says Dr. Tobier, buoy many executives, who have long despaired about the quality of the city's work force.
Also, countries like South Korea and Thailand are gaining new prominence in the world economy. Today's immigrants raised in New York will be well-positioned for international commerce.
"This is a multicultural world, and we're rich in terms of who is in our system," said Joseph J. Saccente, who is retiring as the Board of Education's chief executive for monitoring and improving schools.
But an influx of immigrants brings problems too. District 6 in Washington Heights is so crowded that students are sent to the east Bronx. In District 24 in Queens, classes are held on the auditorium stage and two assistant principals moved into the principal's office so classes could be held in their offices.
 
Hunting Albanian Teachers
 Schools are scrounging around for bilingual teachers, and not just in Spanish and Chinese. District 11 in the northeast Bronx is considering hiring teachers of Albanian, but they are hard to find. Most immigrants who don't speak Spanish must take their classes entirely in English, and some educators fear they will suffer in mathematics and science classes.
The debate over bilingual education, settled legally but not philosophically, is being stirred up by the new wave of immigrants. Some teachers complain that students are being funneled into bilingual classes to furnish jobs for bilingual teachers, and say immigrants would learn more English the old-fashioned way -- by breaking with their own language cold turkey.
But others who grew up in the old system argue that it forces students to endure years of feeling stupid in subjects like mathematics when their handicap is linguistic, not arithmetical.
 
Ambition, Pluck and Pressure

 "I was competent in my own language," recalls Angel Villarreal, the Puerto Rican-born assistant principal of Junior High School 98 in the Bronx.
Schools are also being asked to revamp their curricula to take account of the cultural backgrounds of newcomers. Such sensitivity, says David Reimers, a historian of immigration, was never shown the Irish and German immigrants of the mid-19th century.
And experts like Mr. Moss believe that new immigrants have injected the system with ambition, pluck and pressure for better schools. He says Asian families in the Forest Hills neighborhood where he grew up are joining longtime residents in demanding improvements.
Perhaps cognizant of that emerging constituency, Mayor David N. Dinkins last week decided to restore $600 million of almost $1.5 billion he had taken out of a $4.3 billion school construction plan. Overcrowded District 24 is already building one elementary school, has a junior high school on the drawing board, and has five other additions in the works.
"It's more or less the way my family arrived in this country a generation or so ago," said John Falco, the district's deputy superintendent. "You have industrious people who come to this country for all the benefits our family came for -- freedom and economic prosperity -- with children eager to learn."

GRAPHIC: Photo: P.S. 19 in Elmhurst, Queens, is overcrowded, with 2,100 students from 45 countries. (Nancy Siesel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); THAILAND (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); THAILAND (64%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) IMMIGRATION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RELIGION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HISTORY (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); LABOR FORCE (70%); SUBURBS (66%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



818 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
On Health Insurance, Some States Are Going Back to Basics

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Although health insurers see themselves merely as blameless messengers bearing the bad tidings of rapidly rising medical costs, that position promises scant protection from the heavy fire now directed at them by state government officials and members of Congress. As recent developments in several states demonstrate, the pressure is mounting to control the costs and practices that have left an estimated 30 to 40 million Americans without health insurance.
State officials say that insurers and their employer-clients have much to answer for, notably the splintering of the national pool of the insured into thousands of groups that are often too small to bear the financial risk of even one member's serious illness. Many insurers now agree that dividing the market, which was accomplished by offering lower rates to groups unlikely to need much care, has helped put coverage out of reach for many. 
 "The need for health insurance market reform is clear," said Earl R. Pomeroy, North Dakota's insurance commissioner, speaking for the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. "Some small businesses and individuals cannot get coverage at all because of current or prior health problems. Even small businesses with relatively low rates face the prospect of large premium increases, or the potential loss of coverage if a worker develops a serious illness."
The National Governors Association has also recognized the problem. The governors called for national minimum standards to "encourage broader and more equitable sharing of risk."
In a backlash that has overcome vigorous opposition from commercial insurers, at least 14 states have taken steps toward a concept of insurance called community rating. The community-rating approach means an insurer must accept all applicants at virtually the same rates. This is the method used by the country's 73 nonprofit Blue Cross and Blue Shield health plans for individuals and small groups.
Some states also limit or prohibit setting rates based on health status, age, sex, occupation and geographic location. The intent is to spread risks more widely so that the healthy help pay for the sick. In the bargain, the generally healthier young participants have to pay somewhat higher rates in return for protection against the time when they, too, will be older and may need care.
Vermont, Maine and Oregon have enacted sweeping community-rating laws, which take effect this year and next. Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey proposed one this month. And Senator Lloyd M. Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, included a limit on rate variations in the health-care package that was passed by the Senate recently as part of the tax bill. (The provisions were dropped in a House-Senate conference and the tax measure was vetoed by President George Bush.)
 
Minnesota Subsidizes Coverage
 Last week, Gov. Arne H. Carlson of Minnesota, a Republican, signed a health-care law that forbids basing rates on sex and limits the variations in charges between rural and urban areas. The state will subsidize coverage for uninsured middle-class Minnesotans (maximum income about $38,300).
The New York State Assembly also has passed a community-rating bill, proposed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to help rescue some financially pressed Blue Cross associations. Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, which serves 16 counties including New York City, says it has suffered heavy losses because it was stuck with a preponderance of high-risk customers when commercial insurers lured away lower-risk people with lower rates.
In the state Senate, where the bill is under consideration, Republican leaders say it would unfairly benefit Blue Cross, which already gets lower hospital rates to help insure all comers. Mr. Cuomo has warned that if the measure is not passed, he will be forced to raise rates for Empire Blue Cross in October, shortly before election day.
The Health Insurance Association of America, a commercial insurers trade group based in Washington, purchased large advertisements in newspapers last week to contend that insurance rates "could go up 30 percent" if the New York bill passes. "Higher rates, particularly in today's economy, would leave many with no choice but to drop their coverage entirely," the ad said.
Chris Petersen, a lawyer with the group, said the H.I.A.A. would be willing to compromise, accepting a prohibition on rates linked to health status if "demographic factors" were permitted. "We don't think younger healthier workers ought to be subsidizing older people," he said. The commercial insurers also want New York to authorize a reinsurance arrangement, which would permit the companies to lighten their risks of paying for high-cost patients. This was tried in Connecticut, where several Hartford-based companies backed creation of a reinsurance pool that has provided policies to a few thousand people who had been denied coverage and were able to pay high premiums.
The Vermont law, which takes effect July 1, applies to groups of 49 or fewer employees and self-employed individuals and also prohibits rates based on health status. .
Under the Oregon law, any group of 3 to 25 would have to be accepted at rates not more than 33 percent higher or lower than a midpoint.
Maine took a gradual approach in a law signed this month by Gov. John R. McKernan Jr., a Republican. Insurers must accept any group of fewer than 25 at a community rate starting in July 1993. The rates may vary, plus or minus 50 percent, in the first year, on the basis of age, sex, occupation or geographical area, but permissible variations drop to zero over five years.
The gradual approach is favored, said Alicia Pelrine, a human resources analyst with the National Governors Association, because a cold-turkey approach, requiring pure community rating from the start, might bring sharply higher rates and result in even more people giving up their coverage.
Robert Laszewski, executive vice president of the Liberty Mutual Group, also favors the gradual approach. "If we had to take all comers we would be out of business in 48 hours," he said. But he said legislation to improve access to insurance is overdue. "It can't come quickly enough," he said, "so we can get on to debate the real issues: the cost of health care."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (65%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MAINE, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; STATES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RATES HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); VETO (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



819 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Just Imagine;
It's January 1993 And Ross Perot Is the President

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
President Perot. President Perot! President Perot?
More than an independent, not even a politician, able to leap ballot access requirements in a single bound, Ross Perot might, just might, get elected President. And then what would happen? 
 His fans hope that his distance from the route most Presidents take to the White House might make him succeed where recent Chief Executives have failed, getting the budget under control and the economy in motion, working together with Congress instead of fighting. They think, as he seems to, that the government can be run like a good business.
But a Perot Presidency might also reflect Harry Truman's expectation about the last non-politician to become President, Dwight D. Eisenhower: "He'll sit here, and he'll say, 'Do this! Do that!' And nothing will happen. Poor Ike, it won't be a bit like the Army." As it happened, Mr. Truman greatly misunderstood both his successor's skills and the efficiency of the Army, but a take-charge businessman might have the preconceptions Ike didn't.
As Richard Neustadt, professor emeritus of government at Harvard, said Friday, a new President arrives at the White House to find that all the administrative services work beautifully. The switchboard is the best in the world and helicopters are always ready. Personal tastes can be satisfied, whether it was Fresca wherever Lyndon Johnson went or air-conditioning so strong that Richard Nixon could indulge his desire for wood fires in July. Then, said the author of the classic "Presidential Power: The Politics of Leadership," new occupants "get the illusion it means something to be President." In fact, he said, "hardly anybody will do what you tell them without argument or evasion or compromise."
That is a gamble with any new President, especially one with little acquaintance with Washington, like Jimmy Carter or Ronald Reagan.
But Mr. Perot would bring another risk. That is his very independence. His absence of connections will be an electoral asset, if he decides to run. But it would make him a very different kind of President if he wins, unable to depend on a hard core of fellow partisans to back him even when they think he is mistaken, as the Republicans in Congress often do for Mr. Bush today. And for Presidents who want to accomplish things in office, having friends or at least loyalists always helps.
When it comes to preventing results he deplores, a President can use a veto. Lowell Weicker, who quit the Republican Party to win the governorship of Connecticut as an independent, did that to one state budget after another until he got the income tax he wanted. But except in that confined area, Mr. Weicker has lacked entree to bend the legislature to his will.
In Mr. Perot's case neither the risks nor the opportunity are all that likely to materialize. He may not run. If he does, victory is unlikely. If President Bush does not survive a feeble economy and an even less muscular vision of the future, Bill Clinton represents the other major voting tradition in the United States and the party that has traditionally capitalized on economic distress. And both have established political organizations.
But the combination of Mr. Perot's own resources -- no other campaign can just ask the candidate to write a check -- and the nation's dismal pessimism gives the Texas billionaire an outside chance. That was more than most people gave Jimmy Carter in 1975.
No one knows what an immense dose of television advertising would do for a candidate like Mr. Perot, about whom only 30 percent of registered voters now have an opinion, according to last week's New York Times/CBS News Poll. But it is a measure of attitudes about Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton that about a tenth of those with no opinion about Mr. Perot are now for him anyway, and he draws 23 percent of registered voters in a three-way test, to Mr. Clinton's 28 percent and Mr. Bush's 38 percent.
That 23 percent could dwindle. Mr. Perot could be the political flavor of the month, as Paul Tsongas and Jerry Brown have already been.
But advertising could make 23 percent a foundation to build on. And 23 percent might be enough to win some states. Of course, if Mr. Perot wins a few and Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton run close, the election could be thrown into the House of Representatives for the first time since 1824. And there, unless Republicans make startling gains, Mr. Clinton would probably prevail.
 
The Old School Reform Try
 Guesswork about the potential of would-be presidents is a quadrennial political enterprise. The guesses are especially chancy in Mr. Perot's case. The other candidates not only have records in public office, which he lacks, but their inclinations can also be measured by their associations and their parties. Mr. Bush, for example, is not suddenly going to side with unions; Mr. Clinton is not going to join the right-to-life movement.
At the moment, of course, one has to guess not only how well Mr. Perot might do in advancing policies but also what those policies would be.
His best-known sally in public policy, his leadership of school reform in Texas, was a tour de force in dealing with the legislature. "He can out-politick politicians," said George Christian, a political consultant in Austin. But, Mr. Christian observed, a number of reforms that depend on more than the legislature, especially those requiring improved teacher training, have foundered on the educational bureaucracy.
The Congress might well be cowed at first. The victory of an independent would strike most Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill as a truly shocking precedent. And few would want to be blamed for obstructing a popular new President. "He'd have a moment of opportunity," said Professor Neustadt.
But after a time, the fact that no one in Congress would "have a stake in Perot's success" would become decisive, said Prof. Samuel Kernell of the University of California at San Diego. Congress would be harder to restrain -- for example, its growing affection for protectionism might take root.
Professor Kernell offered another caution, arguing that businessmen never made good politicians, or even good White House chiefs of staff. They misunderstand what the Presidency is all about, believing it's a matter of efficiency and administrative skill. Real Presidential leadership, said the author of "Going Public: New Strategies for Presidential Leadership" does not lie in "administering the government; it's making the difficult decisions that aren't being made or can't be made elsewhere."
Those decisions are the President's to make, and not the product of tabulations of the 800 number call-in system Mr. Perot has proposed. Most of all, they have to be made with some raucous disorder that guarantees that all interests are considered. Businessmen, he said, do not "appreciate the need for disorder."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot in his Dallas office. (Gerard Shumann/Picture Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VETO (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; PEROT, ROSS RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



820 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17

AFGHAN REBELS TAKE KABUL
The Afghan capital suddenly fell to Islamic guerrillas after nearly 14 years of civil war against a succession of Soviet-backed Governments. Rebel factions swept through the city and occupied key Government ministries and installations. 1
 
PERU FIRES ON U.S. PLANE
An American military transport plane flying off Peru's coast was fired on by two Peruvian fighter jets. An American crewman was lost, but Washington and Lima both seemed to be trying to minimize confrontation over the incident. 1
 
BURMA EASES CLAMP ON PRISONER
The Burmese military Government said it would allow the family of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the detained opposition leader and Nobel peace laureate, to visit her. It said it had freed a former Prime Minister and 11 other political prisoners. 3
 
MANDELA SEES PLOY BY RULERS
Nelson Mandela rejected President de Klerk's plan for a popularly elected executive council during the transition to democracy in South Africa. The African National Congress leader said it was a ploy to keep the National Party in power. 4
 
HEADY SPRING IN RUSSIA
It may not be as dramatic as showdowns at the Kremlin. But in planting on private farmland, the Batyrovs and many other families in Russia are striking at the core of the Communist legacy. 1
 
TRANS-ATLANTIC BUDGET SPAT
A dispute between the United States and Germany over domestic budget policies threatened to siphon attention from poor countries as finance ministers gathered in Washington for meetings on the troubled international economy. 9
 
National 18-30

POLL FINDS PEROT GAINING
Riding a wave of discontent with politics-as-usual, Ross Perot is now the preferred choice for President among more than a fifth of registered voters, a New York Times/ CBS News Poll found. 1
Those surveyed in the poll see in Perot whatever they want. 22
 
RESERVE FUND FOR S.&L. BAILOUT
While attacking Congress for delaying spending authority for the savings and loan rescue, the Administration has managed to squirrel away more than $2 billion to keep the operation going. 1
 
THE BATTLE OF BOSTON
As another baseball season unfolds, storm clouds are gathering in Boston. At issue is the custody of the city's beloved and accursed Red Sox and, most likely, the future of Fenway Park itself. 1
 
ANOTHER CALIFORNIA QUAKE
A powerful earthquake shook Northern California and part of Oregon, but there were few reports of injuries or damage. 18
 
A DROUGHT PERSISTS
Heavy rain in February and March ended more than five years of drought in the area around Santa Barbara, Calif. But the picture elsewhere in the state is not so bright. The rain fell mostly in the wrong places, along the coast, where there are few reservoirs. 18
 
THE TALK OF FULTON
Fulton Journal: In the 46 years since Churchill delivered his "Iron Curtain" speech there, a number of notable speakers have followed him to Westminster College in Missouri. But none have caused so much excitement as next month's guest, Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 18
 
Regional 31-40

ACCLAIM FOR ANITA HILL
With the lifted chin and steely grace that characterized her televised testimony about Clarence Thomas, Anita F. Hill electrified a crowd of 2,100 cheering, stomping New York women who hold her personally responsible for revitalizing feminism. 31
 
DINKINS DEFENDS FISCAL MOVES
Responding to criticism that his administration had failed to detail the size of a budget surplus, Mayor David N. Dinkins said fiscal monitors, labor leaders and lawmakers had been told of the projected surplus as early as February. 32
 
GOOD NEWS? WHAT'S THAT?
After years of fiscal trauma, and two years of watching the Mayor seem to dispense only things like homeless shelters, New York City residents appeared to be caught off guard last week by Mayor Dinkins's cornucopia of library openings, day-care centers, health clinics and development projects. 32
 
POLITICS AND ABORTION
As demonstrators on both sides of the abortion issue have gathered in Buffalo, politicians favoring or opposed to abortion rights have found a ready-made platform and a change to raise their profiles. 36
 
"Guerrilla" artists in New Jersey. 34
 
Weighing the fate of New Jersey highway tolls. 34
 
Obituaries 38
Ralph F. Batch, a pioneer in the development of state lotteries.
Edna Simon Levine, a psychologist.
 
Arts/Reviews 55-56
 
Fashion 48, 50
 
Weddings 51-55

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Women Tell the Truth" at Hunter College. 31 (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PERU (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (53%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PERU (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); CIVIL WAR (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); DROUGHT (89%); POLITICS (88%); DISMISSALS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); FAMILY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); RELIGION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); WEATHER (65%); EARTHQUAKES (64%); BANK FAILURES (62%); SAVINGS & LOANS (62%); BASEBALL (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



821 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1979 words

HEADLINE: After 14 Years, Afghan Guerrillas Easily Take Prize

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, April 25

 BODY:
Kabul fell to Islamic rebels today as rival guerrilla groups swept through the capital and occupied Government ministries and installations. The capture of the city came after nearly 14 years of civil war against a succession of Soviet-backed Communist Governments.
The Presidential palace, army garrisons and armories, police stations and the television and radio complexes were swiftly occupied by heavily armed guerrillas who met almost no resistance. 
 Two rival groups, the Jamiat-i-Islami of Ahmad Shah Masood and the militant Hezb-i-Islami of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, vied to capture portions of the city's center, a competition that led to occasional shoving matches but apparently no serious armed clashes in the daylight. But as dark fell, the stutter of rifle and heavy machine-gun fire could be heard throughout the city.
 
Fundamentalist Offensive
 The suddenness of the takeover, initiated by the Hezb-i-Islami, which represents the southern Pathan ethnic group, gave rise to speculation that Mr. Hekmatyar was trying to grab the capital and power for himself at the expense of the many other rebel groups that have formed an alliance.
But very quickly, other guerrillas, particularly fighters from Jamiat-i-Islami, emerged from hiding and outflanked the Hezb-i-Islami forces to occupy most of the important installations in the capital. Many of these groups are dominated by northern and western ethnic minorities who resent centuries of dominance by the Pathans.
Earlier this morning, in the Pakistani border town of Peshawar, a gathering of Islamic rebel groups announced the formation of an interim governing council, although Mr. Hekmatyar, the most rigid fundamentalist among the Islamic rebel leaders, declared that he would not participate. It was not clear this evening whether the council would travel to Kabul to take the reins of the government.
The Associated Press reported that at the Pakistan headquarters of the resistance, nine rebel chiefs -- not including Mr. Hekmatyar -- issued a communique saying Mr. Masood was in charge of Kabul until their arrival.
While the political prospects were unclear, the capture of the city today was clearly the crowning military victory of a struggle that began nearly 14 years ago when the first Islamic rebels took to the mountains to fight the Communist Government of Noor Mohammed Taraki.
The conflict soon became the last cold-war battleground between the United States and the Soviet Union. The Soviets intervened in December 1979, sending the first of more than 100,000 troops to fight the Muslim guerrillas. The United States responded by sending arms to the guerrillas at their bases in Pakistan.
Unable to crush the resistance and facing growing internal problems, the Soviet Union completed its withdrawal in February 1989. The rebels continued fighting President Najibullah, who was installed by Moscow in 1986 and who finally fell from power last week.
As the Soviet Union began to collapse and warmer ties developed with the United States, Moscow and Washington agreed to cut off aid to their clients. The rebels continued to press the Najibullah Government, and a string of victories north of the capital last week presaged today's triumph.
 
Many Losses, Few Victories
 An estimated two million Afghans died in the fighting and nearly six million became refugees in Pakistan or Iran. Countless others were injured. Many villages today are hollow shells of shattered buildings and overgrown fields. More than 30 million mines litter the landscape, and the country's economy has collapsed.
The first move by the guerrillas this morning came when more than 500 fighters from Mr. Hekmatyar's units, who had been hidden in the Ministry of the Interior, took up positions outside the iron gates of the complex.
Quickly, light machine guns were deployed and guerrillas were posted at the entrance, mixing easily with the ministry's own rifle-toting security forces. Many of the guerrillas wore khaki army jackets with patches reading "U.S. Army."
Mohammed Kareen, a commander of Hezb-i-Islami, said: "We came two days ago. We stayed in the ministry until now. They told us to go to the Ministry of Interior. This ministry belongs to Hezb-i-Islami."
The commander, who said he directed about 500 fighters, said he did not know of any agreement with the forces of Mr. Masood.
 
'We Do Not Want to Fight'
 "We are not yet together with Ahmad Shah Masood," he said. "We do not want to fight. If they want to fight, I will start fighting. But it is better for us to be together, because they are my brothers."
Elsewhere in Kabul, a group of rebels shouting "God is great!" stormed the headquarters of the secret police, and here and there across the city crowds of people waving the green banner of Islam paraded through the streets shouting "Long live the mujahedeen," or holy warriors.
Yet even as some of Kabul's citizens celebrated the arrival of the guerrillas, others, including many Government workers and members of the once-dominant Watan Party, hurried to take refuge in their homes. By mid-afternoon, the streets were deserted, except for an occasional jeep or armored car speeding along raising clouds of dust.
As night fell, the blackness over Kabul was torn apart by the crimson stitching of tracer bullets arcing into the sky, the white flash of flares and the crackle of automatic weapons as guerrillas celebrated their victory. Deep thumps of tank fire echoed in the hills and occasional explosions of uncertain origin mingled with the splatter of light weapons.
 
Masood Accuses Hekmatyar
 Mr. Hekmatyar was believed to be outside the city, as was Mr. Masood. At his base in Charikar, 35 miles north of here, Mr. Masood told reporters that Mr. Hekmatyar had collaborated with Communist elements to try to take over the city.
The collapsing Kabul Government had been weakened by defections in the military; and as Hezb-i-Islami forces moved to capture sites around the center of the city, the extent of cooperation between elements of the Government's forces and Mr. Masood became clear.
Late this afternoon, 18 air force helicopters began ferrying 1,800 of Mr. Masood's troops to the capital from Jabal-us-Siraj, about 40 miles north of here. Earlier, a column of heavily armed fighters from Jamiat-i-Islami wearing backpacks marched into the capital's television station. Machine-gun nests were set up on the roof and army guards at the gates were supplemented by Jamiat fighters.
"We asked them to come to control the station," said Akbar Nihad, who said he was the general director of advertising. "We called them today, in the morning. It is necessary for them to have control of the television station. It is important."
Kabul's fall became inevitable as the rest of Afghanistan entered the embrace of Islamic guerrilla organizations. Across the country, varied coalitions and alliances of rebel groups, former government militia and army units assumed control over every major city and town in recent weeks, with the last major provincial capital, Jalalabad, falling on Friday.
Many of these coalitions are bound together by regional, ethnic and linguistic identities, or by loyalties to prominent leaders.
On Friday, many of Kabul's neighborhoods were infiltrated by rebels from many organizations. In the southwest of the city, an area populated by Hazaras, Shiite Muslims from the west of the country, forces of the Iranian-backed guerrilla groups Hezb-i-Wahadat and Harakat-e-Inquilab-e-Islami established offices, set up checkpoints and occupied police stations.
Thousands of rebels, perhaps as many as 100,000 from various factions, took up positions in the mountains surrounding Kabul and along the main roads. For the most part, the north of the capital was dominated by Mr. Masood's forces, while Mr. Hekmatyar's fighters took up positions to the south.
Afghan Army soldiers and troops from the northern coalition headed by General Abdul Rashid Doestam, supported by Mr. Masood's fighters, had established a defensive perimeter on the southern edges of the city. But over the last week, the boundaries of the city became so porous that as many as 20,000 guerrillas filtered in.
Today, rebels in the city rushed to capture Government armories. The Kabul garrison, led by General Nabi Azimi, a Tajik who supervised the Government's military council in the waning days of the regime, invited Mr. Masood's fighters into his cantonment several days ago.
 
Awaiting Orders
 Early this afternoon, a group of Hezb-i-Islami guerrillas seized a national guard armory. From a ground-floor room, weathered fighters in loose turbans handed out new AK-47's, their barrels gleaming with fresh oil, and bayonets to the 100 rebels commanded by Turran Sarshar.
"We arrived one hour ago," Mr. Sarshar said. "We control this building and are guarding the area. So far there has been no fighting. Every party wants an Islamic country so there should be no fighting."
But Mr. Sarshar was adamant in backing Mr. Hekmatyar's refusal to enter an alliance with other groups.
Apart from securing his neighborhood, Mr. Sarshar said he was unclear what was expected of him. "We want a program," he said. "We want orders."
The collapse of the Kabul Government began last winter, first with the disintegration of the Soviet Union, Mr. Najibullah's principal benefactor. As the flow of weapons and money dried up, Mr. Najibullah stepped up his calls for a peaceful settlement. At every turn, the guerrillas rejected his pleas for compromise, vowing they would not lay down their arms until he was removed from office.
In January, alarmed at the rising ethnic chauvinism within the armed forces, Mr. Najibullah tried to replace a group of generals in the north, all of whom were either Uzbeks or Tajiks, with Pathan commanders. But the officers rebelled and formed an alliance with General Doestam, the most powerful militia commander in the north and an Uzbek.
 
Ally of President Rebels
 Time and again in the last three years, General Doestam had sent his soldiers to shore up Government defenses around the country, but the President's attempt to assert the control of Pathan officers over the military drove him into revolt.
Alliances between commanders and guerrilla factions proliferated, with many coalescing into shuras, or governing councils, that assumed administration of towns and cities.
Then nine days ago, Mr. Najibullah, without informing his senior aides, attempted to flee in the plane belonging to the United Nations special envoy, Benon Sevan. But control of the airport had been turned over to General Doestam's soldiers, who refused to let the former President leave the country. He fled to sanctuary in a United Nations building in the city, and his whereabouts today were not known.
Kabul's fall may spell an end to the four-year campaign to find a peaceful settlement. Mr. Sevan worked strenuously, meeting with rebel factions in Peshawar and Teheran, as well as with Mr. Najibullah and his Government. Last month, it appeared that his efforts had finally borne fruit when Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in Geneva, announced the outlines of a plan for an interim administration and elections for a new government. That plan seemed to lie in shambles amid the jubilant gunfire thundering in Kabul's streets tonight.
Mr. Sevan is in Pakistan with the Secretary General and is to return to Kabul on Monday. But it is now unclear whether he will, or what he can accomplish if he does. And while guerrillas and their supporters cruised the streets of Kabul jammed into the back of trucks, and while the faces of fighters who have spent many of the last 14 years in the mountains of Afghanistan show genuine smiles at their victory, there is little sense of what will happen tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of Kabul, Afghanistan, rejoicing in the streets yesterday after Islamic rebels captured the city and occupied Government buildings. (Reuters) (pg. 1); A rebel fighter shaking hands with an officer of the presidential palace guards in Kabul, Afghanistan, shortly after the Islamic rebels took control. (Associated Press); Ahmad Shah Masood, leader of the Jamiat-i-Islami, one of two rival rebel groups in the capital. (Reuters) (pg. 14)
 
Map of Afghanistan, indicating Kabul. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RELIGION (89%); ARMIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNICITY (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); POLITICS (66%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A AHMAD SHAH MASOOD (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



822 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: PERU JETS ATTACK U.S. AIR TRANSPORT

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 25

 BODY:
An American military transport plane flying off Peru's coast was fired on by two Peruvian fighter planes Friday afternoon, resulting in the loss of one crewman, but Washington and Lima appeared today to be trying to minimize confrontation over the incident.
American officials in Washington expressed concern and said the incident, which involved a C-130 transport plane on a routine counterdrug surveillance mission, was being investigated. 
 Peruvian officials expressed regret and said their pilots had sought to prevent an incident.
The shooting could increase tensions between Peru and the United States three weeks after President Alberto K. Fujimori seized extraordinary powers, saying the move was necessary to bring political and economic order in light of challenges from Maoist guerrillas and drug traffickers.
 
Plane Lands in Peru
 The shots damaged the plane's fuselage and forced it to land at an airstrip in the northern Peruvian city of Talara. Peruvian officials said that the plane was off course and that it had not responded to radio or visual contacts.
One American official here said the plane was off course because it was being tracked by fighter planes and was seeking to escape.
[In Washington, a Pentagon spokeswoman said the plane was en route to its base in Panama. A White House spokesman, Bill Harlow, said: "Obviously we're concerned over the incident. Our plane was shot down and one of our people was killed. We don't know what happened and we're investigating."]
In addition to the crew member who reportedly was sucked out of the plane when a door blew open from the machine-gun fire, two other airmen were wounded, one superficially. Peru and the United States have been searching for the lost airman, who is presumed dead because the plane was flying at 30,000 feet when it was attacked. He was not identified.
"We deeply regret this incident and consider it to be an accident," said a Peruvian Air Force official, who insisted on not being identified.
The American Ambassador, Anthony C. E. Quainton, called President Fujimori, and an embassy spokesman said Mr. Fujimori had expressed "regret and concern," apologized for the incident and promised a thorough investigation. While a Peruvian radio station said Mr. Fujimori had called President Bush to apologize, the White House said the two had not spoken.
Relations have been tense since the United States took the lead in condemning Mr. Fujimori's seizure of power on April 5 and stopped aid to Peru.
According to United States officials, the C-130 was on a mission over the Upper Huallaga Valley, a coca-growing area. For three years the United States has operated a base there called Santa Lucia, and more than two dozen Drug Enforcement Administration agents work with the Peruvian police to destroy cocaine-processing labs, eradicate coca plants and stop trafficking.
 
Eye-to-Eye Contact
 Peruvian Air Force officials said they assumed the C-130 was on a surveillance mission. They said that after the plane was spotted in the Upper Huallaga region, it veered off course more than 300 miles to the coast. The plane was over the Pacific Ocean, 60 miles off the coast, when it was hit.
Peruvian Air Force officials say that permission had been granted for the plane to fly in the drug trafficking area. They said that once the plane started moving off course, Russian-made SU-200 fighters armed with missiles, rockets and machine guns began to follow it. "As far as we know, the pilots tried to communicate in every way with the pilot of the C-130," said an Air Force official. Hesaid the Peruvian pilots had told their superiors that they tried to make radio contact with the C-130, then approached and established eye contact and motioned for the plane to land, before firing warning shots.
 
Shots Fired at 5 P.M.
 "Only after that did they open fire," the official said, adding that the pilots fired at a part of the cargo plane that would not force the plane to crash.
"If they had wanted to they could have put that plane in the bottom of the sea," the official said.
The Peruvian jets fired at shortly after 5 P.M. The Pentagon did not announce the incident until midnight in Washington.
The Peruvian Air Force appears to be trying to take a more aggressive posture against unidentified aircraft in the region. Days after Mr. Fujimori dissolved Congress and the judiciary, he gave the Air Force control over all airports and airstrips in the Upper Huallaga, including the Santa Lucia air base. Municipal governments and police had generally controlled the airports in the past.
There was speculation that the change in command could have created confusion over flight procedures between the two countries.
 
Tension in Washington
 The incident is certain to complicate the relationship between the two countries in the fight against drugs. Many in Congress and in the Bush Administration are already pressing to reduce the United States role in Peru's drug war.
After Mr. Fujimori's seizure of power, the United States removed 20 Green Berets who were training the Peruvian Army in counter-narcotics work. Moreover, American officials say they are planning to dismantle two radar stations that track planes used by drug traffickers and remove the 60 Air Force troops who are running them in the Upper Huallaga Valley.
In a communique, Peruvian officials said their fighter pilots had to take some kind of action since the C-130 did not identify itself and that it cannot just assume that if a plane has United States markings they are genuine.
Peru has also had tense relations with Ecuador over areas of its border.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. Investigates Attack

WASHINGTON, April 25 (Special to The New York Times) -- A Defense Department spokesman, Glenn Flood, said that all details of the attack were being investigated and that he did not know when the investigation would yield answers.
Capt. Barbara Summers, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said, "When the aircraft was fired upon, it was 60 miles off the coast of Peru on its way home to Howard Air Force Base in Panama."
Mr. Flood said the flight's precise purpose had been "approved by the two Governments" of the United States and Peru.

GRAPHIC: Map of Peru indicating Talara and site of air strike against U.S air transport. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: PERUVIAN AIR FORCE (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: PERUVIAN AIR FORCE (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY ACTION; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); COCAINE (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



823 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: POLL;
POLL SHOWS PEROT GAINING STRENGTH TO RIVAL CLINTON'S

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Riding a wave of discontent with politics-as-usual, Ross Perot is now the preferred Presidential alternative of more than a fifth of the registered voters, putting him just behind Gov. Bill Clinton, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
More than two-thirds of registered voters admitted knowing little about Mr. Perot, who has not yet officially entered the race but is considering an independent candidacy. More than half in the new survey were unable to describe him as a liberal, a conservative or a moderate. But the Texas businessman is increasingly seen as an option by voters dissatisfied with Mr. Clinton, the likely Democratic nominee, and President Bush, the poll showed. 
 Asked how they would vote if the election were held today, 23 percent of registered voters said they would back Mr. Perot, 28 percent Mr. Clinton and 38 percent Mr. Bush. A month ago, Mr. Perot was at 16 percent, Mr. Clinton at 31 percent and Mr. Bush at 44 percent.
 
Mean Season Favors Perot
 In a mean political season that seems to reward those who stand outside the fray -- witness Paul E. Tsongas's strong second place finish in the New York primary after withdrawing from the race -- Mr. Perot is thriving as an undeclared candidate. Mr. Clinton's negative ratings have soared during the hard-fought primary campaign, and Mr. Bush's have jumped as well.
Mr. Perot, who is just beginning to draw the scrutiny afforded a Presidential candidate, is now the only contender who is viewed positively by more people than those who view him negatively. Mr. Perot's fans said he offered real change, and they said they liked his business background and expertise.
Still, polls in the spring do not necessarily predict votes in the fall. In 1980 John Anderson, the last major independent candidate for President, had the support of 20 percent at this stage of the campaign but pulled only 7 percent of the vote.
 
Advantage of Being Unknown
 Moreover, non-politicians sometimes take poorly to the white heat of the political process. A recent example was Clayton Williams, the Texas oilman whose apolitical charm in early 1990 turned into a series of verbal gaffes by fall that destroyed his campaign for Governor of Texas.
In Kansas City, Mo., yesterday, Mr. Clinton said the poll reflected public disenchantment. "People have been so disappointed for so long by what's happening in Washington, and they're so frustrated by the economic problems of their states," he said. "And they want it to be fixed."
Robert M. Teeter, chairman of the Bush campaign, said it was not unusual to see such signs of discontent "at the end of a long economic downturn." He predicted that voters would ultimately make their decisions on the basis of "who has the leadership and the experience needed to govern the country."
The poll, conducted Monday through Thursday, was based on telephone interviews with 1,530 adults nationwide, of whom 1,151 were registered voters. It had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The poll suggested that the Perot phenomenon was broad and diffuse, as befits a candidacy rooted in a series of television interviews earlier this year. His support cut across the lines of party, political philosophy, age and income. In many cases, it seemed to have little to do with Mr. Perot himself; 28 percent of those who said they would vote for him were unable to say whether they had a favorable or unfavorable opinion of him.
 
Perot Support Has Breadth
 An analysis of the current poll showed Mr. Perot sapping strength from both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton, although slightly more from the Democrat. He ran about the same among liberals, moderates and conservatives, but did particularly well among men, Westerners and college graduates.
Perhaps most worrisome for the two parties, the survey suggests that Mr. Perot, at the moment, is a vehicle for the voters' frustration with the candidates this year. Fifty-nine percent of the registered voters surveyed said they were dissatisfied when their choices were confined to Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton. When Mr. Perot's name was added to their options, only 36 percent remained unhappy.
This discontent with conventional politics has become a hallmark of the 1992 campaign, and poses a serious challenge to both parties. It helps explain why both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton are struggling to present themselves as agents of change running against an established order, even though both men are career politicians.
 
A Call for Fundamental Change
 In a measure of the voters' disaffection, the survey asked whether Americans thought their political system needed minor change, fundamental change, or a complete rebuilding. Only 15 percent said minor change; 57 percent called for fundamental change and 27 percent said it needed to be completely rebuilt.
Their alienation continues to rise. Forty-four percent said government does not pay much attention to what people think. In the fall of 1988, only 28 percent took that view.
The survey suggests that Mr. Perot's supporters are on the cutting edge of this angry mood. Sixty-one percent of them said the Government would work better if "we voted in all new people" Fifty percent of Clinton's supporters and 36 percent of Mr. Bush's supporters felt that way.
Against this backdrop, the survey suggests that both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton will enter the general election campaign with formidable problems.
Mr. Bush's job approval rating remained stuck at 39 percent among all adults, statistically unchanged from his showing in March and February. Even his conduct of foreign policy, once a sure winner in public opinion polls, got favorable marks from only 44 percent, while 46 percent disapproved of his performance there.
Mr. Bush also got poor grades on a series of domestic issues that he has tried to address on the campaign trail this year. Fifty-six percent of registered voters said the Bush Administration has not done a good job dealing with the drug problem; 65 percent said it had done a poor job on education, and 78 percent said it had done a poor job on the economy.
The President's personal image has also worsened over the past month. Thirty-five percent of those polled said they have a favorable opinion of Mr. Bush, while 44 percent reported an unfavorable opinion. This is the first Times/CBS News poll this year that showed Mr. Bush's negative ratings exceeding his positive.
 
Bush Leads Clinton One-on-One

It was not all bad news for the President, who maintained a lead over Mr. Clinton. In a two-way race, Mr. Bush was preferred by 46 percent of the registered voters, while Mr. Clinton was the choice of 40 percent. And more than two-thirds said they expect Mr. Bush to win this fall, compared with only 19 percent who cited Mr. Clinton and 7 percent who cited Mr. Perot.
As Mr. Clinton wraps up a brutal primary season, 40 percent of the registered voters said they had an unfavorable opinion of him, as against 26 who viewed him positively. In comparison, at this point in 1980, Ronald Reagan was viewed unfavorably by 34 percent, and favorably by 43 percent.
The Arkansas Governor is vulnerable on the personal quality voters most frequently cite as important in a President -- honesty and integrity. Only 24 percent of the registered voters said he had more honesty and integrity than most people in public life, while 59 percent said he does not.
After months of being derided by his critics as "Slick Willie," Mr. Clinton is viewed by many voters as hiding something when he answers charges about his personal life. Twenty-three percent said they thought Mr. Clinton was telling the entire truth, while 53 percent said he was "mostly telling the truth but hiding something" and 11 percent said he was lying.
Still, most of those who said he was hiding something also said it was not "something the public needs to know," and nearly half of those polled said they thought the news media had been tougher on Mr. Clinton than on other candidates for the Presidency. Only 16 percent thought Mr. Bush had been given tougher treatment.
Mr. Clinton, in the aftermath of New York, consolidated his standing in the party; 64 percent of the Democratic primary voters said they preferred him as the nominee, compared with 24 percent who backed former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California.
But only 22 percent of Mr. Clinton's Democratic primary supporters described themselves as "strongly" favoring him for the nomination.
 
 
 
HOW THE POLL WAS CONDUCTED
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Monday through Thursday with 1,530 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii. Of them, 1,151 said they were registered voters.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened so that calls would be placed to residences only. Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the poll.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into a residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for results based on those registered voters who said they would vote for Ross Perot for President, it is plus or minus six percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: Tables: shows voters' favorable and unfavorable opinion of presidential candidates hoping to challenging George Bush (Source: From a New York Times/CBS News poll) (pg. 1); "Voters' Views of Bush," shows voters' opinion, among Republicans, Democrats and Independents, of President George Bush for his job as president, in foreign policy, the economy, dealing with the problem of illegal drugs and dealing with the problem of education. (Source: From a New York Times/CBS News poll) (pg. 22)
 
Graphs: "Early Preferences" shows breakdown of voters' likely choices when asked who they would vote for if 1992 Presidential election were being held today and the candidates were George Bush, the Republican, and Bill Clinton, the Democrat; if election included Ross Perot; asked which voters strongly favor, favor with reservations or dislike opponent, if candidates were Bush and Clinton; asked if they would prefer another candidate if Bush and Clinton were the only candidates and if Ross Perot were also a candidate. (Source: From a New York Times/CBS News poll) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA VOTERS & VOTING (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LIBERALISM (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN ANDERSON (54%); R JOHN ANDERSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



824 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Rulers Releasing a Dozen Political Prisoners

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
After years of mounting international pressure over its dismal human rights record, the military Government of Myanmar said yesterday that it had released a dozen political prisoners and would allow the family of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the detained opposition leader and winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, to visit her.
The offer to visit Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been under house arrest since 1989 and won the peace prize for her nonviolent campaign for democracy in her homeland, was quickly accepted by her husband, Michael Aris, a Briton who is a visiting professor of Tibetan and Himalayan studies at Harvard University. 
 "It is very good news -- we've waited a long time for this," Mr. Aris told The Associated Press as he made plans for the trip. He and the couple's two sons, Alexander, 18, and Kim, 14, who accepted the prize in Oslo last October for their mother, have not been allowed to visit her since Christmas, 1989.
 
Express Skepticism
 But experts on Burmese affairs and exiles opposed to the military junta in Myanmar, formerly Burma, expressed skepticism yesterday over the junta's moves. They called them largely conciliatory gestures aimed at placating an international community fed up with the junta's human rights record.
"The junta is one of the most ruthless dictatorships that ever existed and now they're trying to change their image," said Josef Silverstein, a professor at Rutgers University who has written extensively on Burmese affairs. "They intend to hold power if they can. But once they begin this process, I'm not sure they're going to be able to hold it in check. If they can't, maybe there is going to be something very exciting out there."
Khin Nyo, the editor of Burma Review, a monthly newsletter for Burmese dissidents in the United States and other countries, also called the junta's moves cosmetic, intended not as first steps toward democracy but to ease international criticisms.
He noted that the junta's actions came two days after the resignation of Gen. Saw Maung, who had led the junta since its founding in 1988, and he said the new leader, Gen. Than Shwe, was less moderate than his predecessor.
Burma, a largely Buddhist nation of 40 million with large Muslim and ethnic minorities, has a long, troubled history of dictatorship. After nearly 30 years of isolationist, autocratic rule by Gen. U Ne Win, pro-democracy demonstrations erupted in 1988. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of U Aung San, the founder of modern Burma who was assassinated in 1947, returned from a self-imposed exile and became the opposition's leader.
Human rights groups say thousands were killed when troops fired into crowds of peaceful pro-democracy demonstrators. In the ensuing turmoil, Mr. Ne Win resigned, but continued to wield considerable power behind the scenes as the junta that replaced him suspended political rights and set up the State Law and Order Restoration Council, led by Gen. Saw Maung.
 
Election Ignored
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest in July 1989. But under international pressure, the junta carried out a pledge to hold national parliamentary elections in May 1990 and her movement, the National League for Democracy, won by overwhelming margins.
The junta simply ignored the results, and the international outcry has grown steadily louder. Dissidents say the army has repressed two million ethnic Kachins in the north and four million ethnic Karens in the east, while 200,000 Burmese Muslims in the west have fled from famine and persecution into neighboring Bangladesh, where Burmese army raiders have sometimes pursued and killed them.
Amid the international protest, The United States and Germany withdrew aid programs in 1988, as did the World Bank. And Japan -- Myanmar's largest supplier of aid, giving $61 million last year -- recently warned the junta to improve its human rights record.
Last December, the United Nations General Assembly rebuked Myanmar for refusing to surrender power to a democratically elected parliament. And last February, 46 nations in the Middle East called on the junta to halt persecution of Muslim minorities.
Mr. Silverstein said Myanmar's economy has faded with its international standing and is now essentially flat. Mr. Khin Nyo said the country faced a possible rice famine this year.
With pressures mounting, Gen. Saw Maung resigned and his successor announced the release of former Prime Minister U Nu, 85, who had led the nation briefly after the ouster of Ne Win in 1988, and 11 other political prisoners, all members of the Patriotic Old Comrades League.
The junta also said it would allow a long-promised conference to set policies for writing a democratic constitution. Finally, it said it would let Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's family visit her.
Little is known of the new junta leader, Gen. Than Shwe, because biographies of Burmese army leaders are not made public. But Mr. Silverstein said he was 58, joined the army in 1953, had led an infantry division and became Defense Minister last month.
But Mr. Silverstein and Mr. Khin Nyo said real power in the junta was held behind the scenes by Ne Win and his protege, the Burmese intelligence chief, Khin Nyunt, who said recently that the nation would "never accept" Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi as its leader.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, shown in 1988, the detained opposition leader who has been under house arrest in Myanmar for nearly three years. The Government said yesterday that her family could visit her. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (52%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MYANMAR MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); OSLO, NORWAY (52%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICAL PRISONERS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICS (73%); HOUSE ARREST (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); RELIGION (60%); ETHNICITY (50%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); THAN SHWE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



825 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 32; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Euphoria Is Scarce as Dinkins Loosens Fiscal Belt

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
Jose Delgado lingered at the doorstep of a decaying South Bronx apartment building last week watching Mayor David N. Dinkins promise millions of dollars in projects. After a while the politicians dispersed. The television cameras were packed up. The onlookers dribbled away. But Mr. Delgado remained, as he always does.
"Every time they want to be elected, they come here," said the 41-year-old building superintendent. "They say they are going to do things to fix the neighborhood, but it's been like this since 1972." 
 But Perry Gasparis, 54, who had left his nearby coffee shop still in his white apron to watch the Mayor, hoped that this time would be different. "This is a prime location in the Bronx," he said of the corner where only the shells of two former court buildings remain. "I don't know why they let it go down like this. But I'd like to see them do something here. I'd like to see it before I die."
After years of recession and fiscal trauma, after more than two years of watching the Mayor seem to dispense only things like homeless shelters, city residents appeared to be caught off guard last week by Mr. Dinkins's cornucopia of library openings, day-care centers, health clinics and development projects. There was even a projected $455 million budget surplus for the fiscal year ending on June 30.
 
Orchestrated Good News
 Likewise, in the corridors of power, from City Hall to Albany, the orchestrated wave of good news brought forth a cascade of grievances, as lawmakers and fiscal monitors raged that the administration had been misrepresenting the budget. Municipal union leaders demanded a share of the surplus.
Outside City Hall, many New Yorkers found the Mayor's sudden change in tone hard to grasp. Some people, longing for the recession to end, said tentatively that perhaps the city had turned a corner. Some looked for the fine print or the bookkeeping tricks that would make the announced projects diminish. And others were so cynical, so fed up with politicians, that they said they doubted the Mayor really had the money.
"I find it very hard to believe," said Linda Chiarel, 38, a private school teacher who was out with her two small sons in Woodside, Queens, on Friday. "Nothing looked good up until now."
Kenneth Luft, 40, of Brooklyn's Canarsie section called the week's announcements "fantasy news" and said they were timed to coincide with a fund-raising dinner for the Mayor tomorrow. "Obviously he's got a dinner coming up and he's got to get support," Mr. Luft said.
 
Easier to Do Homework
 But Keisha Scott, a 17-year-old student at Brooklyn Technical High School, was delighted that expanded library hours would make it easier for her to do homework. "I think it's a start," she said. "If people see that this is happening, more things will begin to get better."
In the Bronx, Mr. Delgado dismissed the largesse as politics as usual, waving his arms to spots where former Presidents and other mayors once posed. "Carter, when he was running for President, stood over there and talked about cleaning up this place," he said. "and I remember Koch stood over on the corner and did the same thing."
What Mr. Dinkins had to offer was often simply the restoration of former services like five-day-a-week libraries, or the return of projects that were delayed when the fiscal crisis hit. The proposed new police academy for the Bronx was first announced by Mayor Edward I. Koch when he was running for re-election in 1989. It was shelved by the Dinkins administration when hard times hit. Half of the $4 million that Mr. Dinkins allotted to finish building Prospect Park Children's Zoo in Brooklyn was money that had been promised earlier but then deferred.
And some of the development projects Mr. Dinkins proclaimed in the Bronx and Brooklyn would not be fully financed until 1997. But after half a term of bad tidings, they could be announced with fanfare.
 
Sign of Re-election Campaign
 City politicians said the barnstorming dispelled any doubt whether Mr. Dinkins would seek re-election. "There is no doubt that the Mayor has designed a strategy to reconstitute himself again, and you can't blame him for that," said the Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden. "He's a political animal."
But among some members of the public, the Mayor's announcements brought only mistrust and no break in the gloom about the city's prospects.
Mr. Luft of Canarsie was unimpressed, even by the library openings, though he has two children and education on his mind. "My cousin lives in Plainview," he said. "Libraries there are open at night. And they actually have books in there too." For the last few years, he has debated whether to stay in the city, though Brooklyn has long been home. For now, a good local school program has tipped the balance in Brooklyn's favor.
Mr. Luft said he worried about his property values, about taxes and about crime. "What we want is someone who knows what's going on," said Mr. Luft, 40. "Dinkins doesn't and Koch didn't."
 
'Not if I'm Alive and Conscious'
 He said he voted for Mr. Dinkins in the last election. But asked if he would again, he snapped, "Not if I'm alive and conscious."
Mary Gibson, 54, shopping in Woodside, tried to take solace in the better budgetary news. "It's a good sign," she said. "Let's hope things are coming back." But she spoke of the city in the past tense as if discussing the dead. "New York was a great city," she said. "I don't know if it's all Mayor Dinkins's fault. It's hard to say."
Maria Smalls, who had taken her 7-year-old and 5-year-old to the Brooklyn Public Library for the afternoon, gave the Mayor the benefit of the doubt, though she too was puzzled at the budget news. "I'm personally wondering where did he get all this money all of a sudden," said the Flatbush woman. But she was ready to be grateful for his plan for health-care clinics for the poor and restored library hours.
"I hope they've come to realize you really do need libraries," she said, missing her bus because she was so intent on making her point. "To me education is power."
 
Library Vandalized and Closed
 She was gentle towards the Mayor. "I think what he inherited from the Koch administration was a big burden, a big problem," she said. "Considering what he has to work with, he's doing a great job."
In another section of Brooklyn, in the corner of inner-city devastation where Brownsville, Bushwick and Bedford-Stuyvesant meet, the Saratoga library branch stands shuttered behind a fence. Vandals had stripped the building's copper flashing and gutters and the roof had leaked. The city couldn't spare the $42,000 for repairs. In 1990, with the ceiling collapsing, the library was closed.
Across the street on Thursday several girls sat on a stoop near piles of rubbish, braiding the hair of their dolls. They hadn't heard that Mr. Dinkins had pledged $250,000 to rebuild the library. But told that it might reopen, they squealed with delight. "We could do our homework in there," said 10-year-old Simone Minter.
But Develelyn Goodin, 33, homeless for five years and now living in city-owned housing around the corner, had no enthusiasm for Mr. Dinkins or his proposals. "He speaks more of what he wants to do, before he knows he can get it done," he said. "This is a very poor community. They need things here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "This is a prime location in the Bronx," said Perry Gasparis, who owns a coffee shop near a vacant lot on Brook Avenue in the Bronx. "I don't know why they let it go down like this. But I'd like to see them do something here. I'd like to see it before I die," he said; "Every time they want to be elected, they come here," said Jose Delgado, outside his South Bronx apartment. "They say they are going to do things to fix the neighborhood, but it's been like this since 1972." (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); CITY LIFE (66%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (66%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (64%); BUDGET FORECASTS (64%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (51%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); MITCHELL, ALISON DAVID N DINKINS (90%); JOSE DELGADO (61%); KENNETH LUFT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



826 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Cleanup Gets Little of Superfund Settlements

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., April 25

 BODY:
Only one-tenth of the money spent by insurance companies to settle Superfund environmental claims is used to clean up hazardous materials, according to a new study.
About 90 percent of the money from the insurance companies goes to legal fees and related costs, the report said. It was made public Thursday by the Rand Corporation, a nonprofit research group with headquarters here. 
 The Federal Superfund program calls for the cleanup costs at each site to be divided among those who dumped the wastes. Critics have said that this emphasis on liability will lead to more arguments than cleanup. The Rand study supports this view but concludes that "the verdict is not yet in."
Costs involved in a cleanup but not directly related to it are likely to remain high while insurers challenge several aspects of the Superfund law, said an economist, Jan Paul Acton, a co-author of the report who left Rand to join the Congressional Budget Office.
 
Industries Doing Better
 The report also said that the spending for actual cleanup efforts usually rises over time, so the proportion of non-cleanup costs should fall as more toxic waste dumps are cleaned.
In contrast to insurance companies, the biggest industries are spending about 80 percent of their Superfund-related expenses for actually cleaning up toxic waste, the study said.
The report on the insurance companies is based on data from four national insurance carriers that together received 13,000 claims seeking insurance payments for hazardous waste cleanups. The figures on industrial companies were from five concerns involved in 700 toxic waste dumps. Rand agreed not to name the companies in exchange for their cooperation.
Rand said the study is the first attempt to measure the use of money from private industry under the Federal Superfund law, which is aimed at reducing the nation's toxic waste hazard. The report said the proportion of cleanup versus non-cleanup costs by the Government and small companies is unknown.
Fewer than 5 percent of the 1,200 toxic waste dumps on the Environmental Protection Agency's Superfund priority list have been cleaned up completely, said the report by Mr. Acton and another economist, Lloyd Dixon. About 75 percent of the sites are still in the early stages of cleanup.
 
Defending Policyholders
 The study found that insurance companies spent an estimated $470 million on Superfund-related claims in 1989, almost twice their 1986 expenditures.
"But $410 million went to the legal costs of defending their policyholders and disputing whether their policies covered the cleanup," Rand said. That amount of money could have paid to clean up 15 toxic waste sites, Rand added.
Rand reported that non-cleanup costs were quite low at sites where the waste had been dumped by a single company. They were much higher for sites where many companies dumped waste and were presumably disputing their share of liability.
The industries in the study spent an average of $6.1 million in 1989 for Superfund-related cleanups. That was triple the 1986 figure, but still low considering that each concern dumped waste at an average of 140 sites.
Two years ago, Rand described the pace of Superfund cleanup efforts as "super slow."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; SUPERFUND; INSURANCE; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; FINANCES; SUITS AND LITIGATION INSURANCE (93%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (93%); SUPERFUND (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); LITIGATION (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: JAN PAUL ACTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



827 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Accord Is Reached to Ease Canadian Restrictions on Beer From U.S.

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 25

 BODY:
In a compromise aimed at avoiding a trade war, Canada and the United States today reached an agreement in principle to ease the restrictions that Canada imposes on imports of American beer.
The accord was reached after late-night meetings in Washington and telephone calls between Washington, Ottawa and the seats of provincial governments in Canada. President Bush and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney did not directly take part in the talks but had recently discussed the need to reduce trade tensions, officials of both Governments said. 
 Mr. Mulroney is to visit Washington May 20 for discussions that are expected to center on trade issues. And both Governments are negotiating with Mexico over the creation of a North American free trade area embracing the three countries. Mr. Bush reiterated on Thursday that he wanted such an agreement, which would expand trade among the three countries, to be concluded this year.
The talks that achieved the breakthrough today centered on when Canada would open its markets to American beer. Washington had wanted access by this summer; Ottawa wanted three years. In today's agreement, the two Governments split the difference, agreeing that American brewers would be given access to Canadian retailers by Oct. 1, 1993.
"We're pleased that we've been able to arrive at this agreement and remove this longstanding issue from the U.S.- Canada agenda," said Julius L. Katz, Deputy United States Trade Representative.
Mr. Katz described today's pact as "an agreement in principle" and said it needed to be "more sharply defined" in coming days.
 
U.S. Beer Faced Many Hurdles
 American brands have faced many hurdles in Canada. In Quebec, only Canadian-brewed beer is available in grocery stores. In Ontario, only Canadian-brewed is sold in the popular provincially operated beer stores. Some provinces also subject imported beer to bigger markups than domestic brands and maintain a variety of size restrictions. Ontario, for instance, allows imports to be only in six-packs.
Canada has complained that Federal and state alcohol taxes in the United States unfairly limit Canadian beer sales. That issue is being negotiated separately and more slowly.
Canada and the United States, with the largest two-way trade of any two countries in the world, concluded a free-trade accord in January 1989. The dispute over beer has been so difficult and long-lasting that it was not included in that agreement.
In addition to beer, conflicts involving automobiles, lumber, magnesium and carpets have inflamed tempers in recent months -- partly because the lingering economic slump and approaching elections in both countries have increased sensitivities about job losses from imports.
The United States took its complaints about Canadian restrictive practices on beer to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva, which found the Canadians to be unfairly discriminating.
Howard Collins, acting general manager for the Brewers Association of Canada, said his members were pleased with the agreement although they would have preferred a longer transition.
The three largest American brewers -- the Anheuser-Busch Companies, the Coors Brewing Company and the Miller Brewing subsidiary of the Philip Morris Companies -- have longstanding licensing arrangements with Canadian brewers under which their major brands are produced in Canada.
The G. Heileman Brewing Company and the Stroh Brewery Company, which do not have arrangements with Canadian brewers, led the fight for increased access.
American beer producers supply about 3 percent of the Canadian market, and Canadian beer accounts for about 1 percent of the much larger American market. The actual value of Canadian sales into the United States, at $160.7 million last year, was more than six times the value of American exports to Canada.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BEER; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET BEER & ALE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BREWERIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (72%); BRANDING (71%); RETAILERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



828 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: War on Poverty Symbol Accused of Murder

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: INEZ, Ky., April 25

 BODY:
The unemployed Appalachian coal miner whom Lyndon B. Johnson visited 28 years ago as President to announce a national war on poverty has been charged with murder in the fatal poisoning of his 3-year-old daughter.
President Johnson used Tommy Fletcher's humble foothills house as the backdrop to tell the nation on April 24, 1964, that it was time to stamp out poverty. At the time, Mr. Fletcher was 38 years old, had not worked in two years and was struggling to support a family of 10. 
 His wife at that time later died. Mr. Fletcher, now 66, and his current wife, Mary Porter Fletcher, 25, were indicted March 26 on charges of murder and first-degree criminal abuse. They are being held on $100,000 bail each and are scheduled for trial on Sept. 23.
The couple, who until they were jailed lived in the same tar-paper house that President Johnson visited, are accused of killing their daughter with a drug overdose and trying to do the same to their 4-year-old son.
The girl, Ella Rose Fletcher, died on Jan. 4 of what doctors originally believed to be an epileptic seizure. But when her brother, Tommy Fletcher Jr., was hospitalized a month later for drug poisoning, the state police had her body exhumed. An autopsy showed that she had died of an overdose of an antidepressant and had been sexually molested.
An attorney for the state, Leo Marcum, said the couple had taken out a $5,000 insurance policy on each child. He also said that Mrs. Fletcher had told an investigator that she feared her six-year marriage was deteriorating and that she and her husband had not had any problems before the children were born.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENTUCKY UNITED STATES (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILD ABUSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS MURDER (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); DEATHS (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); CHILD ABUSE (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (72%); EPILEPSY (71%); BAIL (69%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); POLICE FORCES (51%); 

PERSON: FLETCHER, TOMMY; JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (1908-73) MARY PORTER FLETCHER (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



829 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: After Years of Aiding Rebels, Little U.S. Influence

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
As Afghan rebels take control of Kabul, the Bush Administration is exercising little influence after years of doling out military aid to the guerrillas who are now emerging victorious.
In part the reduced American role demonstrates the transience of alliances bought with arms supplies. American leverage diminished quickly once military aid was cut off last year in hopes of fostering a settlement to the civil war. But some regional diplomats and scholars also say that as the struggle reaches a climax, prudence may dictate that Washington let events run their own course. 
 "The warring sides in Afghanistan have their own agendas, often in conflict with those of their external supporters," Kenneth Katzman, a regional analyst at the Congressional Research Service, said in a briefing paper on United States policy options issued nine days ago as the Government of President Najibullah collapsed.
And Barry Rubin, a foreign policy fellow at the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies, said that by quietly supporting United Nations mediation efforts and urging a peaceful close to the civil war, the Administration may also be seeking to shelter itself from blame should diplomacy collapse into renewed fighting.
 
'U.N. Responsibility' Seen
 "Anything they can work out will be acceptable to the United States," he said of the negotiations that continued today even as rival rebel groups poured into Kabul, the Afghan capital."And if it breaks down, it is a U.N. responsibility, not the U.S. responsibility, to handle it."
At the moment, American efforts are concentrated in three areas, none of them highly visible.
The first goal is to back up United Nations mediators by quietly discussing their aims with Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and indirectly Iran, along with the rebels themselves.
The second is to insure that relief supplies continue to be delivered. The United States shipped 10,000 tons of food to Kabul this month to help stabilize the capital.
The third is to try to retrieve some of the advanced arms, like Stinger missiles, that are still in the hands of the rebels, an objective that is difficult to achieve and that the Administration refuses to discuss in detail.
Beyond these limited efforts, experts said, it makes sense for the United States to play a cautious game as long as the power struggle seems to be breaking the way it prefers, with a new government emerging that could grant the least possible power to the most militant rebel groups, like the Hezb-i-Islami of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.
The cautious approach also preserves avenues for exerting future influence, perhaps using generous economic aid, should a coalition emerge that is strong enough to govern amid the turmoil of the devastated country. Such a coalition, experts said, might bring together militia who abandoned the Government of Mr. Najibullah only recently and joined in a partnership with rebels led by Ahmad Shah Masood, who has the implicit support of the Bush Administration and whose forces are now taking over Kabul.
And diplomatic experts said the American posture mirrored those of other outside powers. That includes not only the former Soviet Union, which agreed last fall to cut off aid to Kabul and is now virtually absent from the scene, but also Pakistan, which has also been losing sway over rebels who no longer need sanctuary across the border, and Iran, which has internal preoccupations.
 
'A Relatively Low Priority'
 "Of course, the U.S. does have a stake, but the issue is a relatively low priority," Mr. Rubin said. "It wants a stable government with a minimal amount of violence, and there is some concern that it does not want radical fundamentalists to take over." A fundamentalist government in Afghanistan could bolster the regional power of Iran and undermine the stability of the predominantly Muslim former Soviet republics in Central Asia.
Robert Oakley, a former United States Ambassador to Pakistan who now studies the region at the Peace Institute in Washington, said the United States should seek to exert continuing influence, perhaps through an economic aid program to Afghanistan.
But he acknowledged that United States influence throughout the region is modest.
He said humanitarian aid should be increased if only to repay what he called a debt owed to the Afghans for their role in toppling the Soviet empire.
Direct humanitarian aid for Afghans, including refugees, runs about $70 million a year, with the United States also contributing to international relief agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMS TRADE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



830 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Pennsylvania;
In Delegate-Rich Contest, Candidates Are Making Very Little Noise

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., April 25

 BODY:
Only three states have more delegates to the Democratic National Convention than Pennsylvania's 169.
But it is difficult to tell that from the desultory activity that has passed for campaigning in the weeks leading up to the state's Presidential primary on Tuesday. From Independence Hall in Philadelphia to the Golden Triangle in Pittsburgh, from the Poconos to Lake Erie, many Pennsylvanians are unaware of the primary and many others have trouble suppressing yawns. 
 "People are underwhelmed," a county chairman said. "Me too."
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, still struggling to free himself of questions about his integrity, has a wide lead in the polls, and he is expected to win going away. But there is no sound of trumpets, no rumbling of a bandwagon to be heard. A month ago, in New York, 56 percent of the voters surveyed on Election Day said they wished someone else were running; in the latest Pennsylvania poll published in The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette this week, the number reached 65 percent.
 
'No Intensity' by Clinton
 Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California has spent more time in the state than Mr. Clinton, whose arrival here was delayed for almost a week by strained vocal cords. But Mr. Brown's exertions have won him little support, even in depressed areas, like the Monongahela Valley near Pittsburgh, where his attacks on big business and indifferent government might have been appealing.
The Pennsylvania Poll, which surveyed 445 Democrats from April 15 to 18, with a margin of sampling error of five percentage points, showed Mr. Clinton with 43 percent among the most likely voters, as against 20 percent for Mr. Brown, 20 percent for former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, whose name remains on the ballot even though he withdrew from the campaign several weeks ago, and 17 percent undecided.
That is not a powerful showing for the Arkansas Governor at a time when he has been conceded the nomination by most politicians and analysts.
"Pennsylvania is a conservative state where economic issues count the most," said G. Terry Madonna, director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville State College. "There's nothing trendy, flamboyant or avant-garde about Democrats here. They don't care much about so-called character issues. But Clinton has been a no-show. His campaign events have been well staged, but there haven't been many, and there's no intensity."
In sharp contrast to the New York primary, Mr. Brown has for the most part refrained from attacking Mr. Clinton, although this week, walking in Aliquippa, where the closing of steel mills has devastated the local economy, he said, "Voting for Clinton is like taking out a ticket on the Titanic." He has done little advertising on television as his contributions have faded.
A third-place finish in New York, behind Mr. Clinton and the ghost candidacy of Mr. Tsongas, has made Mr. Brown a less appealing alternative to many voters and helped create the possibility that the same fate could befall him here.
Mr. Clinton has all but ignored Mr. Brown, attempting to refocus his campaign on President Bush and the fall. His primary strategists, Paul E. Begala and James Carville, speak about using the primary to introduce him to a state that the Democrats must win in November if they are to have a chance nationally.
In the last decade, Pennsylvania has lost 300,000 manufacturing jobs. Its population is shrinking as places like Altoona, where the railroads were once king, and Johnstown, once a steel center, search for new identities. But despite that, and despite a big Democratic registration edge, Pennsylvania has gone Republican in each of the last three Presidential elections.
 
Seeking Reagan Democrats
 For Mr. Clinton, bringing Republican-voting Democrats back home -- regaining the so-called Reagan Democrats -- is the key to general-election victory here as well as in other industrial states. Pennsylvania, Mr. Begala said last week, has "11.5 million of the type of people we are trying to address in this campaign."
To help him do it, Mr. Clinton has traveled around with Senator Harris Wofford, carrying him along like an amulet. With the help of Mr. Carville and Mr. Begala, Mr. Wofford lured the swing voters in his upset victory over former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh last year. His big issue was health care, and he was at Mr. Clinton's side Friday at the Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia, describing Mr. Clinton as "the kind of man who I believe can turn the right of affordable health care into reality."
A large number of the Reagan Democrats are union members, and Mr. Clinton picked up two valuable endorsements on Friday from the 900,000-member United Automobile Workers and the 200,000-member United Mine Workers. Owen F. Bieber, the U.A.W. president, said this week that the union was "entirely comfortable with Clinton's ability to force the Bush campaign to expose its weaknesses on the issues."
But the presumptive nominee's efforts to turn the primary here into a preview of a Bush-Clinton contest in the fall have been hampered by two men, Ross Perot and Pennsylvania's unconventional Governor, Robert P. Casey.
Mr. Clinton descended from the "Presidential" plane on which he has tried to pitch his campaign to attack Mr. Perot, the potential independent candidate, asserting that Mr. Perot's lobbying activities and contributions to politicians made him every bit as much a politician as other candidates.
Concentration on Mr. Perot by the press for the last week has made it harder for Mr. Clinton to draw attention to his own substantive speeches, on which he is relying to make him seem a big enough man for the White House.
The bigger threat has been Mr. Casey, a conservative Democrat now in his second term, who is extremely popular in this state. In a series of interviews in the last week, he has bluntly stated his conviction that Mr. Clinton has been so seriously damaged by questions of probity that he cannot defeat Mr. Bush this fall.
"This is the worst possible nightmare for our party," Mr. Casey said in an interview on Thursday. "Nobody's going to vote in the primary -- tiny turnout. Clinton has barely emerged from a very weak field. In terms of staying power for the fall, there are red flags everywhere, and they'll stay there unless he can convince people that he's trustworthy.
"In one poll, 85 percent of the Democrats in the state say they think the country's on the wrong track, which ought to be Bush's death sentence. Yet Bush is ahead of Clinton here, because people don't trust Clinton. Nobody's cheering, nobody's happy. As things stand now, they're not going to vote for a President Clinton in this state, I can assure you of that."
Whether Mr. Casey's views will change large numbers of votes is dubious; he himself says Mr. Clinton will win "by plenty" and argues that "Jerry Brown has lost his fast ball." But his pointed remarks only remind people of the doubts that Mr. Clinton had hoped to banish here next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE (55%); NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION; VOTER BEHAVIOR CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); APPLE, R W JR JERRY BROWN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



831 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Germany Tussle at Monetary Talks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
As finance ministers from around the world gathered here for several days of meetings on the troubled international economy, an unusually harsh dispute between the United States and Germany over their domestic budget policies continued unabated today.
Like the scheduled welcome of Russia and the other former Soviet republics into the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on Monday, the trans-Atlantic jousting threatens to detract attention from the international lending institutions' traditional clients in the third world. Planning sessions for the lending institutions' semiannual conference have given little attention to the new problems of the poor countries, such as the drought in Africa, or to their new economic growth. After years of following the stiff prescriptions of the World Bank and the I.M.F., dozens of them are buying more Western exports. 
 The neglect of poor countries comes at a time when the industrial world is increasingly dependent on third-world markets, as President Bush pointed out in a speech on Thursday to Western Hemisphere business executives.
The latest German-American discord began on Thursday, as David C. Mulford, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, made no mention of poor countries when he outlined the American agenda at the lending institutions' conference and at a separate meeting on Sunday of finance ministers from the seven largest industrial democracies.
Mr. Mulford called on Germany to move faster to lower its interest rates because they were slowing growth around the world. On Friday in Bonn, Horst Kohler, the state secretary in Germany's Finance Ministry, accused the United States of making "one-sided statements."
Today, a senior German official here tried to convince reporters that there were no hard feelings.
"There's really no clash, really no big problem between the United States and Germany," said the official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity.
But within minutes, the official was expressing indignation and citing American budget problems. "Suddenly these people, or some of them, give us the advice to increase taxes. I'm really a bit surprised," he said.
Faster growth in Europe would help American exports and the American economy before the November elections. The senior German official said that with the German economy growing at an annual rate of slightly more than 4 percent in the first quarter of this year, no further stimulus was needed.
The meeting on Sunday of the finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States is one of a periodic series on international monetary and economic policy. The finance ministers of the Group of Seven are also prepared to endorse on Sunday, as expected, a ruble stabilization fund run by the I.M.F., the German official said.
The most visible event this week may be the vote planned for Monday by the 156 member countries of the I.M.F. and the World Bank to admit the former Soviet republics.
The nearly forgotten ghosts at the finance ministers' banquets this week will be the more than 4 billion people who live in poor countries. Representatives of 24 poor countries worked today on a draft listing their concerns, led by a call for assurances that assistance to the former Soviet republics will not reduce aid for the third world, said an official involved in the drafting.
Financial officials from wealthy countries met Friday and today to review further contributions to the International Development Association, the World Bank's arm for lending to countries where average economic output per person is less than $750.
The level of contributions is adjusted every three years, with the next change scheduled for July of 1993. In the past, the World Bank's staff has sought contribution increases exceeding the worldwide inflation rate, to make ever more money available for the 40-year, no-interest loans.
But this time the bank is only seeking to keep pace with inflation, and Washington has been struggling over whether it can endorse even that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GERMANY UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TRENDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



832 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sanctions Against Haiti Seem Ineffective

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, April 24

 BODY:
American diplomats here are expressing growing exasperation as their efforts to reverse the violent army coup here last September have either backfired or gone virtually ignored by forces opposed to the return of the elected president, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Most political, military and business leaders here have stubbornly held out despite a punishing, five-month old trade embargo, repeated hints at armed intervention and most recently the cancellation of American visas for a score of wealthy Haitians thought to have supported the coup. 
 Conditions for the poor, meanwhile, have grown increasingly desperate, prompting renewed departures of large numbers of boat people. Diplomats fear the exodus could easily get out of hand just weeks after the strenuously contested forced return to the country of more than 15,000 would-be refugees, who were intercepted by the United States Coast Guard.
Emboldened by their successful resistance to international pressures to restore democracy so far, Haitian leaders have become openly defiant, directing public taunts at the United States.
In the official newspaper, the newly appointed Information Minister, Gerard Bissainthe, has begun publishing regular, signed columns newspaper written in rhymed verse that deride the American ambassador and United States diplomacy in general.
Calling Haiti the "Bermuda's Triangle" of diplomats, Mr. Bissainthe's series has ridiculed the Ambassador, Alvin P. Adams Jr., as a "fatally wounded" envoy and describes him as an "arrogant, violent, authoritarian" personality.
Mr. Bissainthe has also denounced a senior State Department official who visited here recently to revive efforts to ratify a negotiated solution to the country's crisis that calls for Father Aristide's eventual return. Among other things, the minister's columns have called the official, Robert Gelbard, a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, a "glory-thirsty" adventurer.
 
Warning by Envoy
 During a stormy visit here this month, diplomats said, Mr. Gelbard warned Haitian leaders of dire consequences, including the possibility of armed foreign intervention, if they failed to quickly back the settlement, which was brokered by the Organization of American States.
Among many Haitians opposed to Father Aristide return, however, the visit was quickly enshrined as an example of purported American racism and arrogance toward Haiti. These charges were revived by provocative comments that Haitian legislators say Mr. Gelbard made to them during a dinner at the home of Mr. Adams.
"Haitians," Mr. Gelbard is said to have announced to his guests, "have one chromosome too few, the one for consensus and compromise, and one chromosome too many, the one for conflict and discord."
"It was like he was saying, 'you have a basic deficiency, you guys, I cannot really even blame you for what you are,' " said Marc L. Bazin, a conservative politician who was an invited guest at the dinner. "Coming from a senior diplomat, I thought it was absolutely astounding."
American officials acknowledged the substance of Mr. Gelbard's comments and conceded that they had come as "a shock," but said there was no offense intended.
"The message they got out of that visit is that the Americans are not going to give up here," said a diplomat, angered by the high-volume campaign built around Mr. Gelbard's remarks. "It's not about marking points. We are trying to let people in on what kind of future they can expect, and there is no hope for these guys on the horizon. Nothing."
Despite Mr. Gelbard's warning that there must be movement by May 18, when O.A.S. foreign ministers will meet in the Bahamas, the provisional president, Joseph Nerette, in a palace interview on Thursday, ruled out any adherence to O.A.S. prescriptions, saying he would forge ahead in building a "consensus government."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BERMUDA (79%); 

COMPANY: US COAST GUARD (56%); US COAST GUARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (56%); US COAST GUARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BERMUDA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); VISAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); REFUGEES (75%); TRENDS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (REV); FRENCH, HOWARD W JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



833 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Make It Easier To Sell Public Property

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
President Bush will issue an executive order next week making it easier for state and local officials to sell public assets like airports, roads, bridges and sewage treatment plants to private businesses, White House officials say.
Plans for the order are the latest move in a campaign of deregulation and privatization driven in part by the Administration's ideology but also aimed at showing a President coping with domestic issues in an election year. 
 On Friday, for instance, the Administration announced new steps in a continuing effort to lighten regulation of financial institutions. At the same time, White House officials said Mr. Bush was expected to announce next week an extension, into the summer, of the 90-day Government regulatory moratorium he ordered in January as one step to fight the recession.
The order dealing with state and local governments' sale of public property was first reported Friday night by NBC News. In confirming plans for it, White House officials said its main provision entailed giving such governments a financial incentive to let private business buy some of their assets.
 
How the Incentive Would Work
 Airports, sewage treatment plants, bridges and other installations operated by local governments are often built with the help of Federal money. Under current Federal rules, Washington is entitled to a share of the proceeds from the sale of such property.
For example, if the Federal Government paid 60 percent of the cost of building a local airport, it may be entitled to 60 percent of the proceeds. That kind of provision discourages the local authority from selling.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, White House officials said the new executive order would reduce the share of the proceeds to be paid to the Government. The Administration has not yet settled on a formula that will determine that share.
Administration officials said the Government would not lose any money under the arrangement because the current regulations are so restrictive that hardly any sales now occur in any case.
 
Response by Governors
 Asked about the effect of the new order, James L. Martin, director of state-Federal relations at the National Governors Association, said he was not aware of any great desire by governors to sell state-owned properties to private investors.
Similarly, Michael W. Brown, a spokesman for the United States Conference of Mayors, said he had not heard much discussion of such sales. "This issue has not hit our agenda as yet," Mr. Brown said.
But an Administration official said the President's order would give local officials an incentive to put the issue higher on their agenda. "In general," said this official, "we think it's good to privatize government services."
Indeed, like the Reagan Administration before it, the Bush Administration contends that many government activities can be performed more efficiently, at lower cost, by businesses.
Independent assessments have questioned that premise, however.
The General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative and auditing arm, warned in November that "the Government should not contract out its responsibilities to serve the public or to exercise its sovereign powers."
Specifically the accounting office said that several Federal agencies, including the Transportation Department, the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, had probably gone too far in hiring private contractors to perform Government functions. The accounting office said that many tasks being contracted out by those agencies were core Government responsibilities and that in any case the use of contractors sometimes cost more than if the agencies performed the work themselves.
As for the steps announced Friday on easing regulation of financial institutions, the most significant was the issuance of a final rule by the Environmental Protection Agency to protect lenders from financial liability for damage to the environment caused by their borrowers. Some lenders fear that under Federal law they may be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up contaminated properties.
The American Bankers Association welcomed the new rule, saying it would help banks that lend to such businesses as dry cleaners, gas stations and farms.
The Administration also announced a program to establish uniform policies for Government examination of financial institutions. The four Federal agencies supervising such institutions agreed to work together to overcome what the White House called the "balkanization" of authority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); WHITE HOUSE (85%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (85%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; FEDERAL AID (US); LOCAL GOVERNMENT; AIRPORTS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; STATES (US); PRIVATIZATION OF INDUSTRY US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MAYORS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



834 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L. DRAFT;
How the Draft Was Born and How It May End

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY W. SMITH

 BODY:
Any talk of the National Football League going without a college draft is enough to cause heart palpitations among the draftniks around the country, especially those who have turned prognostication on the picks into a cottage industry.
No draft means no more secretive whispers about vertical jumps, 40-yard sprint times and bench presses. No more scouting combines. No more draft-day trades. No more No. 1 picks that don't blossom. And -- yipes -- no more draftniks on the balcony of the draft room at the Marriott Marquis screaming at their teams for making terrible picks? 
 But it could happen.
After 56 years, the N.F.L. draft is faced with extinction. This is the last year that the league's college draft is protected under the 1982 collective bargaining agreement with the players. Without the protection of the bargaining agreement, the draft will surely come under legal attack from the Players Association as an antitrust violation.
"They can't conduct the draft that they do now without violating the law," said Doug Allen, assistant executive director of the Players Association. "There's no collective bargaining agreement to bless it with."
The N.F.L. commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, maintains that the league will go forward with the draft in 1993.
"I think that we'll continue to have a draft pretty much in the form in which it is presently because the draft that we now have is reasonable under any legal standard," Tagliabue said during the N.F.L.'s owners meeting in Phoenix in March. "It was set out in negotiations with the Players Union in 1977 in its current form and I think it will continue."
The current form of the draft emerged after years of experimentation and changes. The original proposal to conduct a draft, in which players who had used up their college eligibility were selected in a lottery by teams in inverse order to a team's finish the year before, was adopted in 1935.
Bert Bell, the Philadelphia Eagles owner and later N.F.L. commissioner, proposed the draft.
Guess which team had the first pick in the first draft held in 1936?
The Eagles made Jay Berwanger, University of Chicago halfback and Heisman Trophy winner, the first No. 1 pick in the college draft. And like most No. 1 picks who aren't signed before the draft, Berwanger never signed and sat out the season.
The Eagles traded his rights to Chicago, but the Bears couldn't sign Berwanger either. Berwanger never played pro football, because at the time a team held a player's rights forever. That rule didn't change until 1977, when the league, under an agreement in the bargaining agreement, allowed unsigned college players to go back into the draft pool the next year.
The draft's future could hinge on current litigation before the court. In a case set to begin on June 15 in a Federal court in Minneapolis, N.F.L. players are seeking free agency.
While the draft is not an issue in the case, if the veteran players are granted free agency by the court the mood for free agency could trickle down to those entering the league for the first time.
Free agency for all players, rookies included, would mean that N.F.L. teams would have to do a considerable amount of courting before they could get a player to walk down the aisle.
Teams in places like Green Bay, Wis., would have to come up with a heck of a sales pitch and maybe loads of cash to get great players to come out into the cold.
Conceivably, without a draft, N.F.L. teams would have to scour the country like college recruiters, selling the virtues of their team and trying to work out attractive financial packages to entice players to sign contracts. Just think, a system where a recruit could be offered a car, above the table, for signing. The thought is frightening to the N.F.L.
"It would be chaotic," said Harold Henderson, N.F.L. executive vice president for labor relations and chairman of the N.F.L. Management Council. "It would be counter to the competitive balance of the league. The teams with the most money and most desirable locations will be able to cherry pick the cream of the crop."
 
Revenue Is Shared
 Allen said the league already shares a great deal of its revenue, most of which comes from the network and cable television rights package, so free agency does not pose a financial drain on individual teams. He said the N.F.L. will be hard-pressed to show that the league's competitive balance will be altered by free-agent rookies.
"It's just a myth that they've used to justify the need for a restrictive system," Allen said.
 Henderson's argument that the draft and its inverted lottery system preserve the league's competitive balance would draw protest in some quarters. Consider that Indianapolis, New England and Tampa Bay have had 8 of the 10 No. 1 picks in the last 10 years and only New England has been to a Super Bowl (1986).
The Colts and the Buccaneers have made the playoffs only once (Tampa Bay in 1982 and Indianapolis in 1987) in 10 years.
On the other hand, Dallas has used trades for draft picks to build a playoff caliber team. The Cowboys, using the No. 1 pick in 1990 and 1991 and trading for other first-round picks, went from 1-15 in 1989 to 11-5 and the playoffs last season.
Jerry Jones, the Cowboys' owner since 1989 and a man noted for his draft-day wheeling and dealing, knows about the possible challenges to the draft, but he will continue to conduct business as usual, which means making trades based on next year's picks.
Jones thinks some form of a draft will always exist in the N.F.L.
"Basically, I don't give a very high percentage to having wide-open selection of players," Jones said. "I don't give that much credence. I think if any way the rules are changed, by agreement or in the court, economic gravity will dictate some type of orderly draft."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); 

PERSON: SMITH, TIMOTHY W PAUL JOHN TAGLIABUE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



835 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: At Home Abroad;
More Than Bosnia

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
As Serbian forces attacked Croatia last year, I asked a British official with much experience in conflict-resolution what he thought Americans and Europeans should be doing. Without hesitation he replied: "We should tell the Serbs that unless they call off their aggression, we will bomb Belgrade."
It was an answer startlingly at odds with official policy. The U.S. and the European Community then were refusing to label Serbia the aggressor, and refusing to recognize the republics that had broken off from Yugoslavia. Our policy was to mediate the conflict from a neutral posture. The use of force was not in remotest contemplation. 
 But with time the answer has become more and more compelling. Mediation, though carried out by Cyrus Vance and Lord Carrington with high dedication and skill, has not ended the Serbian aggression. Serbian irregulars and elements of the federal army are now ravaging the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Europe and America are no longer in their stance of aloof neutrality. The E.C., followed by the U.S., recognized the republics. As Serbian military brutalities have mounted, the Bush Administration has begun talking with the E.C. about imposing sanctions on Serbia. But still the State Department spokeswoman, Margaret Tutwiler, speaks in almost pathetic tones about the fighting.
"We're calling on everyone," Miss Tutwiler said last week, "to please do whatever they can or use whatever influence they can to halt this."
Three guesses how Slobodan Milosevic, the Communist leader of Serbia, will respond to a pretty please. He has made it about as clear as anyone can in the last year that he understands only one kind of language: the language of force.
Of course it is true that outside intervention in ethnic conflicts like those in the republics of the former Yugoslavia presents dangers. There were reasons that the United Nations Charter barred international intervention in "internal" affairs.
But to define such ethnic conflicts as "internal" is becoming increasingly difficult. When Mr. Milosevic sought to expand Serbian power, and the other nations in Yugoslavia responded in fear by withdrawing from the federal state, were the Serbian bombing and shelling that followed "internal"?
Moreover, for the world to let military savagery rage unchecked in Bosnia and Herzegovina threatens far more than the life of that small state. All over Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union there is ethnic tension: in Czechoslovakia, Romania, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Russia.
In those places, and others, communities that define themselves by language or religion or history are minorities within a state. They feel threatened. They want security for themselves and their communal identities. Yet the states of which they are a part fear that minorities, in asserting their rights, will shatter the state structure.
The problem urgently requires an answer -- an international answer. Edward Mortimer, writing in The Financial Times of London, explained why:
"States should be able to recognize self-defined 'communities' on their territory without feeling that they have opened the door to secession and disintegration. An internationally accepted regime of minority rights and obligations is indispensable if much more chaos and bloodshed in Eastern Europe are to be avoided."
Working out international definitions and mechanisms to protect minority rights will be a formidable task. But let it begin.
Mr. Mortimer suggests starting in the (Helsinki) Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, where the Netherlands has proposed a High Commissioner for Minorities. Mr. Mortimer's is a wise thought, because the immediate need for reassuring action is in Europe and the responsibility should be here, too.
But the Serbian problem will not wait for larger political solutions. The time has surely come to tell Mr. Milosevic that continued Serbian aggression will be met at once by absolute economic isolation and then quickly, if still necessary, by force. If we can ground Saddam Hussein's helicopters, we can much more easily silence Slobodan Milosevic's guns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CROATIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ARMENIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GEORGIA (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; EUROPE SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CROATIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ARMENIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GEORGIA (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); CIVIL WAR (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



836 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Public & Private;
Gender Contender

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

 BODY:
To: Governor Clinton
Re: Half the Voters
 
Dear Governor,
How's your sore throat? What's happening in the Pennsylvania primary? Is it my imagination or has Hillary been muzzled since the cookies vs. career controversy? Will Bob Kerrey be your running mate? There aren't any more bombshells, are there?
How come you haven't noticed us? 
 There are millions of agitated female voters out here and you have a golden opportunity to persuade us to support you. We're the people who upset Senator Alan J. Dixon in Illinois and could make Carol Moseley Braun the first woman of color to serve in the Senate. We're the people who have taken Lynn Yeakel from 0 to 60 in a couple of months in Pennsylvania, relishing the spectacle of a smart woman taking on Arlen Specter in a Senate race.
They say this is our year. The issues once called women's issues have become cutting edge. Since this last momentous fall, when the Judiciary Committee sent Anita Hill back to Oklahoma like a doctoral candidate who had failed her orals, our anger has become a recognized national phenomenon. One of our fund-raising organizations, Emily's List, has doubled the number of its contributors since then.
Hasn't anyone told you?
We have no reason to support George Bush. Even some Republican women will say so. During the New Hampshire primary the reporters who cover the President got some yuks out of one commercial. In it, Mr. Bush was sitting at his desk when a woman assistant came in and handed him some papers. The joke was that it was the first woman assistant seen in the Oval Office since the Administration began.
But it's not simply that Barbara Bush is the best-known woman in this Administration. After all, your wife is the most prominent woman in your inner circle, too, although she has the experience to be part of a policy partnership as well as a domestic one. Your closest campaign advisers are the standard-issue white guys.
And this is not just about abortion. By the way, Governor, what was going through your mind last Wednesday? There was only one story in this country that day, and it was the future of legal abortion, writ large in Supreme Court arguments and in arrests in Buffalo. And you gave a speech about the environment. Great issue, bad timing, even if it was Earth Day.
Back in 1988 George Bush evoked significantly less enthusiasm from women than he did from men. And that was before he vetoed family leave, gagged the doctors at family planning clinics, said Clarence Thomas was the best man for the job and spent a year pretending that the economy was A-O.K. Opinion polls showed that we women were much less enamored of his antiseptic war in the Persian Gulf than our male counterparts.
You could fashion a victory out of this gender gap. If you are going to stand for a new generation, you can begin by standing for a generation that has come of age during the fight for equality at work and at home, a generation that has been irrevocably shaped by the changing roles, concerns and problems of women. You could show that you get it, as the post-Hill shorthand goes. But first you have to convincingly recognize our existence.
You cannot assume that the gender gap automatically benefits you. You have a gender gap of your own, a personal one. Some women look at you and see every charming and evasive rover they ever had the bad fortune to tangle with.
You could defuse that if you spoke out in a constant and concerted way about your commitment to family planning clinics and prenatal care programs, family leave policies and early childhood education initiatives, legal abortion and a polyglot inner circle. You've been out there romancing black voters, Jewish communities, labor unions. But you haven't romanced women enough. (Look, you're going to have this problem with double-entendres. Just grin and bear it and everyone will think you're a sport.)
We're raising hell in state races; we could raise hell in this one too. But we're too ticked off to be taken for granted for long, and lots of us are still looking at you as the lesser of two evils, which doesn't inspire anybody to hire a sitter and trudge to the polls come November. The good ol' boys keep saying you need to bring Joe Six Pack back to the Democratic Party in November. But for every Joe, there's another voter out there searching for a candidate. Name's Jane. We're waiting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

LEGISLATION: 102 S.J.R. 119 EARTH DAY (54%); 102 P.L. 34 EARTH DAY (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; WOMEN CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); EARTH DAY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); FAMILY PLANNING (64%); FAMILY (62%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (60%); ABORTION (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); QUINDLEN, ANNA GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



837 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3659 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Clinton's Standard Campaign Speech: A Call for Responsibility

BYLINE: GWEN IFILL

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton's standard campaign speech has evolved since October from a broad discussion of policy that was detailed and long-winded to a more focused talk about his vision for America.
For a while, such speechmaking was almost entirely put aside as Mr. Clinton
spent much of his time explaining himself on personal issues, including marital fidelity and his military draft history. 
 The core of his message has changed little, though he shifts the emphasis depending on the predominant concerns of the area where he is campaigning.
In both the South and the North, his appeals for racial unity strike a chord, but in the South he speaks of race in a confidential tone that appeals to shared experience.
Mr. Clinton usually does not speak from notes but touches on the same primary points in each speech, often shifting paragraphs of thought around as he speaks. Lately, as he has tried to rehabilitate his image before audiences who know little that is good about him, he has infused his talks with personal reminiscences, calling on his audiences to respond to the demands of citizenship by voting.
Following is the text of the campaign speech, excluding a brief introductory passage, that Gov. Bill Clinton delivered at the University of Pittsburgh branch at Johnstown, Pa., on April 22, as transcribed by The New York Times.

 	 	 		. . .	 	I want to make just a few sort of basic points about this election. And I'd like begin with two little statistics, one of which was published a day or two ago in America's newspapers and one of which will be out tomorrow. Statistic No. 1: According to the Federal Reserve Board, 1 percent of America's people at the top of the totem pole now have more wealth than the bottom 90 percent, the biggest imbalance in wealth in America since the 1920's right before the Great Depression.
Statistic No. 2, out tomorrow: For the first time in a decade personal income in our country as a whole fell last year. That says we've got problems. And I want to tell you that behind that, I live in a state that is one of the worst states in America, where we were abandoned with farm income going down, factories closing and moving away. The Federal Government cutting back on money for economic development, education, environmental protection. We've got a lot of counties that went through just what you went through in this county.
And in the last 11 years, I had to try to put together an economic strategy to deal with it. I don't like to bore people with statistics, but let me tell you, what's happened here might be worse than what's happened in some other places in Pennsylvania, but it's not all that different from what's happened in America.
For more than two years now, the average middle-class family has worked harder for less money to pay more for health care, for housing, for education, for taxes. Poverty has exploded, especially among working people.
I just got out of a rather bruising campaign in New York State. You might have read about it. But one of the things that really moved me about that was that I met so many courageous people, people you never see on television, who live in the Bronx and Brooklyn, who live in high-crime neighborhoods and get up every day and literally risk their physical security, going to and from jobs that still pay them less than top-level wages, to support children in difficult circumstances, playing by the rules.
For millions and millions of Americans, the dream with which I grew up has been shattered. The ideal that if you work hard and play by the rules you'll be rewarded, you'll do a little better next year than you did last year, your kids will do better than you. But that idea has been devastated for millions of Americans.
How did this happen? I would argue it happened for two reasons. No. 1: We lost our economic leadership. Other nations began to do some things better than we do, and their economies started growing faster and faster as ours slowed down.
 
Big, Simple Ideas
 No. 2, and this is why I'm running for President: We elected people to high office who had the wrong response to the problem. And that's what this election is all about. Three or four big, simple ideas, even though the problems are complex.
What is President Bush's theory about what's good about the economy? That the Government would mess up a one-car parade, and you can't trust anybody in politics or Government. So the answer to our economic problems is to make taxes lower on corporations and high-income individuals, and get out of the way and let the market do the rest.
That's their idea. The other day, the President vetoed a bill passed by the Congress that a pro-business Democrat, Lloyd Bentsen from Texas, got through, a tax bill that would have made it easier for plants to modernize their equipment, for people to start small businesses, for people to buy houses, for people to invest in housing in low-income areas. All these things would have been done and George Bush vetoed the bill. Why? Because those incentives were going to be paid for by raising taxes on upper-income people. And he didn't want to do that, because his theory is keep the taxes low on the rich and the corporations and everything will be fine.
Well everything is not fine. We have had it their way for 11 years. And we're going downhill as a nation. The middle class is collapsing. Poverty is exploding. Even the wealthiest people know that we're on the wrong track.
What is the alternative? That's what I represent. It isn't just more tax and spend. It isn't just fighting over the pie that we've been fighting over for 11 years in Washington. It is a dramatically different economic policy which the Government says we -- starting with the President -- says we're going to work in partnership with business and labor and education, and we're going to create a high-wage economy in this country.
We're going to have a smart-work, high-wage country, not a hard-work, low-wage country. And we're going to do it by beating the competition. Let me give you some examples.
Taxes. In this country if you run a plant, and you're getting competed against by someone who runs a plant with low wages, if you looked at the tax laws of this country, you would think your Government wants you to shut your plant down and move it overseas.
You know why? Let's suppose you have a little plant in Johnstown and you make light bulbs. And you work with 400 folks. And your competition is from overseas. And the only way you can beat the competition is to stay in Johnstown and spend $2 million on a modern piece of equipment. This is a practical example. Your Government will not give you a tax credit to write that equipment off. But if you shut your plant down and move it overseas, you get a tax deduction for shutting the plant down.
Then you start your plant overseas and you lose money the first couple of years when you start the plant. You get to deduct those losses from your American income tax. Then when you start to make money, if you leave your money in a foreign bank, you never have to pay a penny of tax on it.
I'm old-fashioned about this. I think it's O.K. with me if people decided to invest money in other countries because they need to be there. It's O.K. with me if the Europeans invest money in our country and put people to work because they need to be here.
But I'll tell you something, you look at the German tax code. They don't subsidize shutting plants down in their country and moving them overseas. They subsidize people retraining and putting new equipment in their country. And that could be why 32 percent of the German work force is in manufacturing and only 17 percent of the American work force is. If you vote for me, I'm going to try to turn that around and invest in this country again.
Let me give you another example. Health care. You elected Harris Wofford to the Senate on the health-care issue. Why? Because people are scared to death they can't afford their health-care bills, and some people don't have health insurance, and other people are afraid they've got it but they're going to lose it. And the cost of it is going up at two or three times the rate of inflation every year.
You may just assume that's normal in the world. But it isn't. It isn't. You live in the only advanced country where your Government does not step in to organize the health-care system so we keep cost in line with inflation and everybody gets basic health care.
So your country spends 40 percent more of its income than any nation on earth on health care and gets less for it. Why? Let me give you a couple of examples.
Your nation is the only one where there are 1,500 separate health insurance companies, writing thousands of policies covering different things, insuring groups that may be very small. So much so that only 84 cents of the health-insurance dollar goes into health care in America. You know what it is in Europe? Ninety-five cents. You know what the difference is on our health insurance bill? Sixty billion dollars a year.
Your country is the only country in the world where the employment of clerical workers in hospitals has gone up by four times the rate of the employment of nurses and doctors and other health caregivers. Because we are drowning in a sea of paper work brought on by health-insurance organizations, health-care bureaucracies and the Government itself.
We have steel mills. Look what happened to steel employment. We have steel mills in this country that have over $4 an hour in health-care costs for retired steelworkers. How can you compete with the rest of the world?
Look at what's happened with automobiles. I get mad at the automobile manufacturers, and the auto workers have done a good job of changing the work rules trying to be more productive. But one thing that's not the auto companies' fault is health-care costs. If you drove here in an American car today that you bought in the last three years, you have got $500 in health-care costs more than if you drove here in a European or Japanese car. How can we compete?
Why did this happen? Because your Government has arrogantly refused to do what all of our competitors have done and crack down on the cost of health care and provide a basic health-care package to all. The people that don't have health insurance, do they get health care? You bet they do. But when it's too late, too expensive, they show up at an emergency room, and those of you with health insurance pay the bill.
And I'm telling you, if you don't ask the President to give you national health insurance, it won't matter if 100 percent of the Congress is for it, you're not going to get it. If you vote for me, I'll give you a national health-insurance plan.
Example No. 3: We live in a world in which what you earn depends on what you can learn. We live in a world where the average 18-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. Think about it. That means we live in a world where institutions like this one will become more and more important.
And yet, in your country, we have no system to train all the young people who finish high school but don't go on to college. The people who don't go to four-year schools that don't want to be in dead-end jobs. What happened?
Earnings of younger families under 30 have declined 42 percent in the last 15 years. What happened? Younger high school graduates with no higher education, their earnings have gone down massively in the last 15 years.
High school dropouts in the work force -- out there working for a living -- what's happened to them? Their earnings have gone down over 40 percent in the last 15 years. Why? Because we live in a world in which what you earn depends on what you can learn.
What is the answer? The answer is to look at what the competition does. Look at what the Europeans do. Look at what the Japanese do. Look at what the countries who are paying people better do. If you don't go to college and you get out of high school, you ought to be in an apprenticeship program in this country, and everybody ought to have the right to two years of further training after high school, and Government ought to organize a partnership to get it done.
The earnings of college graduates now are 70 percent more than the earnings of high school graduates in the first year of work. That's over two-and-a-half times what the difference was 10 years ago. What does that mean? That means anybody who wants to go to college and is able to academically ought to be able to go.
But the cost of a college education has gone up by more than health care in the last 10 years. And the dropout rate in college is two and a half times the high school dropout rate.
Here's what I think ought to be done. I think we ought to tell every sixth and seventh and eighth grader, if you stay in school and make decent grades and you want to go to college, you'll be able to go. Here's how.
We ought to scrap the student loan program that exists now. It wastes a lot of money and it doesn't work very well. Here's what I would put in its place. I would put in its place a domestic G.I. bill, a national service trust fund. Anybody can borrow the money to go to college. Any American, without regard to income, no questions asked. Here's your obligation. You would sign a contract to pay it back in one of two ways: your choice. Either as a small percentage of your income over time after you get out of school and go to work, paid at tax time so you couldn't beat the bill.
But you pay according to what you earn, not just how much you borrowed but what you earn. So it wouldn't punish people if they wanted to be police officers or teachers, or work in public service work, people would pay according to what they earn.
Or what I would hope would happen: Every American who borrowed the money would have the option to pay it off with a year or two of national service where you could go back home and you could actually work for a reduced pay; the Federal Government would pay you, just like the Peace Corps except here at home.
Go home and be a police officer; go home and be a preschool teacher; go home and work in a drug program; go home and work in a housing program; go home and help the homeless. Help to solve the problems of America.
 
A Call for Change
 We can educate a whole new generation of Americans. That's the first big idea this election time. Is that what a government does or not? If you vote for President Bush, he'll give you four more years of the same, except he'll say a little more, just like he did in 1988, when he put out the kinder, gentler number, education and the environment.
So now he'll be for a little more. But look at the evidence. They've had 11 years. Ten years ago we had the highest wages in the world. Now we're 10th. Income went down last year for the first time in a decade, but two-thirds of the American people have had their incomes going down for more than 10 years. If we vote for four more years of the same, we're going to get what we deserve.
The second big idea you've got to face is this. What kind of people do you want to be? What kind of citizens are we?
There are a lot of things wrong with America that the Government can't fix. We got this idea in the 80's that we all ought to get it while we can and forget about our friends and neighbors and turn a quick buck. Some people did that by joining gangs and selling drugs on street corners in devastated cities.
Other people did it by selling their companies down the drain with leveraged buyouts and funny financial transactions that made a ton of money for the people who were pushing the paper, and threw all the factory workers out on the street with no future.
And as a result of that, this country is very divided today. We're divided by race and region, by income, by age, by gender. We are all cut up. And I'm telling you, we can't fake it. There's only one President. There's only 535 members of Congress. There are 250 million Americans. We have got to say we want to be one nation again.
We also have to say we also know there are some things the Government can't do. No one can give us an opportunity if we will not take the responsibility for seizing it.
The Republicans always talk about welfare. I know a lot about the welfare system. I spent a lot of time studying it. I hate it. I want to change it. But you know what? The people who are trapped in it, they hate it, too. It's like being caught on a reservation and kept in dependency. And it's no good for anybody.
But you know the right way to change it? I'm for making people on welfare go to work, but you've got to understand why they don't. Most people who are trapped on welfare and don't go to work don't do it because they have no education, they have no skills. If they went on to work, they'd get a minimum-wage job, they couldn't afford child care and they'd give up the Medicaid coverage which gives their children medical benefits. Nobody in their right mind hurts their kids.
You wouldn't do that. So what should we do? Give education, training, child care and medical coverage that make people go to work where they can get jobs. In the culture, require people to be responsible but give them the opportunity to do it.
We ought to have more help for families in this country, but we also ought to require more responsibility. I live in a state where we can fine parents if they won't show up when their kids are in trouble in school. A lot of people think that's harsh but it's a little statement that there are some things the Government can't do if people aren't willing to do for themselves.
I favor giving working poor people an earned income tax credit that can actually give them some money back from the Government to get them above the poverty line. I think if somebody's out there working 40 hours a week, raising kids they ought to be rewarded.
And I favor putting with that the toughest conceivable system of child-support enforcement. I'm tired of people bringing kids into the world and leaving them for the Government to raise.
We've got to decide what kind of people we are.
 
Responsibility of Citizens
 The last thing I'm going to tell you is this. You've got to decide whether you believe in citizenship or not. It's always so fashionable to hate politicians today. Especially me, look at all the stuff you've heard about me.
I'll tell you how bad it is. I was at home the other day at a fund-raising lunch in Little Rock where 1,000 people paid $100 to come have lunch with me. Just my friends and neighbors trying to boost my campaign. And this guy who's like a brother to me, he's about 61 years old, has a 9-year-old daughter who's a genius. This kid is brilliant. And she made up a joke. Here's the joke of a 9-year-old:
A child asks her father: "Dad do all fairy tales begin 'Once upon a time . . .'?" The father says: "No. Some fairy tales begin 'Now, when I'm elected . . .' "
I realize that people don't believe in the political system anymore. And that they believe the worst in politicians when they hear it.
But when I was a kid, my mother was widowed just before I was born. She went off to nursing school and left me to be raised by my grandparents until I was 4. My grandparents ran a tiny grocery store in an integrated neighborhood in a little Southern town. My grandmother was a private duty nurse, but they told me that in the Depression, Franklin Roosevelt was President and gave people hope again by giving them jobs again and giving them work to do.
And they told me if I worked hard and studied hard and played by the rules I could do anything. And I remember how they taught me to count and taught me to read when I was 2 and 3 and 4 years old. They had very little formal education.
Then I came up through the public schools because of the Government. I went to college and got a loan from the Government. I went to law school and got a loan from the Government. Even though I had six jobs while I was in law school, I had to have a loan, and I paid back every penny of it. Because that gave me a chance to make a decent living and have a future.
And when I was the age of the youngest people here, because we had a sound economic policy, I lived in an economy with 3 percent unemployment, 3 percent inflation and 3 or 4 percent real economic growth every year. Because we were competing and winning.
The best thing that the incumbent President has going for him today is that people no longer believe Government can produce anything. They're prepared to believe the worst about politicians. And folks have really given up on the American dream.
This country was set up over 200 years ago by people who believed they had a moral obligation to vote, and who knew if they were well acquainted with the issues, well acquainted with the politicians and the people would do what they were supposed to do at election time, that this country would last forever as a democracy.
And we have made it. Because the people have fought cynicism, and have fought their own doubts. And in all the tough times have made the right decisions.
I want you to go out there Tuesday and vote, and I hope that you will vote for me. I want you to go in November and vote, and if I'm there, and I think I will be, then I hope you will vote for me.
But to say that all the politicians are a bunch of bums and the country can't work anymore and everything's gone downhill, is a cop-out. Because this system begins with you, and this election is about you. It isn't about me. It's about you and your problems and your promise and your future, and all these little kids who are here tonight.
You need a different kind of President. You need people committed to pulling together. And you need to believe again that we can make a difference. The beginning of everything is believing that we can do better. Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton speaking in Philadelphia. His campaign speech has evolved to a focused talk about his vision for America. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: BiographyText

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (82%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (82%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (61%); RACE & RACISM (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1992



838 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: Red Sox Are the Subject of a Custody Battle

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

 BODY:
The nighttime scene has the stark hues of an Edward Hopper painting: the chartreuse and tan of the diamond, the clean whites of the home team, the red of the pulsating Citgo sign beyond the famous left-field wall.
Another season of baseball has begun in Fenway Park in Boston, and despite the bluster of a New England April, the fans are out in force. After all, they have endured fates far worse than a little freezing rain. 
 But even as the game unfolds, another contest looms in the cushy private boxes above and behind home plate. It concerns the custody of the Red Sox, Boston's beloved and accursed team, and, most likely, the future of Fenway Park itself.
The troubles flow directly from the death in February of Jean R. Yawkey, the team's majority owner and the widow of Thomas Yawkey, who bought the team in 1933. They pit against each other two of the many surrogate sons of the childless Mrs. Yawkey: John L. Harrington, the executor of her estate and custodian of her two-thirds interest in the club, and Haywood C. Sullivan, the backup catcher on ignominious Red Sox teams of the 1950's who owns the third share of the team's general partnership.
Cynics say the Red Sox are finally due to win the World Series this year; as their last Series-winning season, in 1918, attests, they always win after Russian revolutions. But the storm clouds coming down the Massachusetts Turnpike, which rained and snowed out yesterday's game against the Texas Rangers, are trivial when compared with those now hanging over this precious franchise.
Mr. Harrington and Mr. Sullivan each says he is the best custodian of what they commonly call the "Yawkey tradition": the couple's knack for befriending m.v.p.'s and groundskeepers alike, for running the team with low-key benevolence and neighborliness. On opening day this season, "The Star-Spangled Banner" was not sung by a Robert Merrill type but by Arthur Rawding, Mrs. Yawkey's favorite concierge at Boston's Four Seasons hotel, where she owned a condominium.
Mrs. Yawkey's initials are stitched onto the sleeves of this year's Red Sox uniforms. And the chair in her private box, where she watched and scored the last of the thousands of ball games spanning the eras of Ted Williams, Carl Yastrzemski and Roger Clemens, will remain empty all season. But with her passing, the name Yawkey is poised to join names like Stoneham, Wrigley, Comiskey, Crosley, Griffith and others on the long roster of baseball's former first families.
New England's shaky economy permitting, Mrs. Yawkey's interest in the team will be sold soon, presumably to a corporation or consortium of individuals, for $150 million or more. But to whom, and how? Her death threatens to kick up a contractual dispute that was dormant during her last few years, one that divides the occupants of two adjoining executive boxes.
 
No Radio Necessary
 In the larger box sits Mr. Harrington, a onetime accounting professor at Boston College. Twenty-five years ago, when the Red Sox won their first pennant in a generation, he could not even buy his way into the deciding game. Instead, he and his family circled Fenway in their car, listening to the game on the radio. But after Mrs. Yawkey brought him in as team treasurer in 1981, Mr. Harrington and his wife, Maureen, became her closest companions and confidants.
Now, Mr. Harrington wears many hats: co-executor of Mrs. Yawkey's estate; president of JRY Corporation, which owns Mrs. Yawkey's interest in the team; trustee of the Yawkey Baseball Trust, which controls the stock of JRY, as well as a trustee of various Yawkey charities and foundations. Mrs. Yawkey also gave Mr. Harrington a limited partnership interest in the team, worth roughly $5 million.
 
Offers Not Taken Yet
 But the 55-year-old Mr. Harrington, a quiet family man of such conspicuous earnestness that he mouths the words to "O, Canada" when the Toronto Blue Jays are in town, does not want to buy the team. In fact, he maintains that he would rather watch games from the grandstands, where one can ignore the agents and multiyear contracts and still see the remnants of baseball's lost innocence.
Mr. Harrington said that out of deference to Mrs. Yawkey, whom he described as "a boss, a friend, a relative," he is not yet entertaining offers for the team. Indeed, he still gets choked up at the mention of Mrs. Yawkey's name. But in the next year or two or three, he says, he will sell the team. It will, as required by the state law covering charitable trusts, go to the highest bidder, or at least the highest bidder sensitive to the team's special status from Winooski to Woonsocket. And any sale would require the approval of both the American and National Leagues.
As Mr. Harrington sees it, Mr. Sullivan and his backers would be welcome to pursue the team, but would prevail only if they paid top dollar in open bidding. "John would definitely not shut out Haywood and has told him so, but at the same time Haywood does not have a right of first refusal," said Justin P. Morreale, a lawyer with Bingham, Dana & Gould, who represents the Red Sox and the Yawkey estate.
 
Just Business or Betrayal?
 But in the adjacent suite, Mr. Sullivan sees things very differently. He and his lawyer, Kitt Sawitsky of Goulston & Storrs in Boston, say that under the partnership agreement, he has the first option to buy Mrs. Yawkey's interest in the team at fair value. Anything else represents a betrayal of trust, the kind of trust on which Tom Yawkey insisted.
"I know good legal people can break anything, but if this comes to a head there's going to be trouble," Mr. Sullivan said. "Whatever my rights are, that's all I want. But I'll go to the nth degree to defend those rights."
The difference is more than a matter of symbols. For most entities, fair value approximates actual market value. But, for what both Mr. Harrington and Mr. Sullivan called the "Mona Lisa" of sports franchises, rationality might not reign. So strong is the team's lure that some egomaniacal plutocrat could well pay far more than its worth for the privilege -- and publicity -- of owning the Red Sox.
The dispute, like everything about the Red Sox, is likely to arouse intense feelings all along the New England talk show circuit. Among other matters, the new owner will probably determine whether the team remains in storied, gloriously irregular Fenway, or moves to something more profitable, expansive and antiseptic somewhere else.
The matter could well end up in court -- appropriately, perhaps, because Mr. Sullivan blames Bingham, Dana & Gould, one of Boston's most prominent law firms, for the current fix.
 
He Sees a Conflict
 As counsel for both the Red Sox and Mrs. Yawkey's various interests, Mr. Sullivan argues, the firm had a conflict of interest. Throughout, he maintained, the firm placed the interests of Mrs. Yawkey and her estate over the team's, an attempt, he said, to preserve its ties to one of its most illustrious clients by circumventing the partnership agreement it drew up.
That agreement requires any general partner seeking to sell to give first consideration to remaining general partners. But both Mr. Harrington and Mr. Morreale contend that when the time comes, the Yawkey estate will merely sell its shares of JRY Corporation stock, not its actual share of the Red Sox. Such transfers would not require the consent of any other Red Sox stockholders.
Bingham, Dana & Gould, which began representing the Red Sox in the 1920's, shortly after they sold Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees, is not subtle about its ties to the team. Its glossy promotional brochure contains five references to the Red Sox, including a photograph of Mr. Harrington and Mr. Morreale at Fenway. It has handled the team's television contracts and recent renovations of Fenway Park, and drafted Mrs. Yawkey's will.
 
'You Lose the Account'
 Mr. Sullivan said he complained of Bingham, Dana's multifaceted relationship to the team as far back as 1987, only to be rebuffed by Mrs. Yawkey. Should he gain control of the team, he said, he would drop the firm and bring in another.
Mr. Morreale denied that Bingham, Dana had acted in any way to perpetuate its ties to the team and was, in fact, reconciled to losing the team once it changes hands. "Generally, when your clients sell you lose the account; that's life for a lawyer," he said. "We love the people, we love to do the Red Sox work, but it's less than 1 percent of our billings."
He said Mr. Sullivan was kept fully informed of the alternative procedures for selling the team. "I'm sorry Sully's upset about this stuff, but he's not supported by the facts or the law," he said. "I don't think we will end up in court, in part because Sully's as free to bid for the team as anyone else. But if we do, I'm not concerned at all about the result."
Mr. Sullivan, a lifetime .226 hitter, nurtured his filial relationship with Tom Yawkey over dozens of dinners in the mid-1960's, when he became the Red Sox director of player operations. His ties to Jean Yawkey were initially cordial, but foundered in the 1980's as the two clashed over the hiring and firing of managers, free agents and other matters. In the manner of some parents, even surrogates, Mrs. Yawkey apparently construed his every disagreement as disloyalty.
Their relationship might have survived had the team fared better on the field. The team's particularly humiliating fate in 1986, when it came within a pitch of winning the World Series, strained things still more. Mrs. Yawkey and Mr. Sullivan did not speak for the final few years of her life, a feud that filtered down to groundskeepers and clubhouse workers. And as Mr. Sullivan's star fell, Mr. Harrington's rose rapidly.
"I keep saying, 'Why is He doing all these good things for me?' " Mr. Harrington said recently, reflecting on his good fortune. " 'When is He going to put me to the test?' "
"The next World Series, probably," Mr. Morreale replied.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With the death of Jean R. Yawkey, ownership of the Boston Red Sox, shown above in 1912 when they beat the Giants in the World Series (Underwood & Underwood), could become a battle between John L. Harrington, far left, custodian for her two-thirds of the team (Peter Travers, 1983), and Haywood C. Sullivan, a former Red Sox catcher who owns the other third. (Associated Press, 1958) (pg. 1); Jean R. Yawkey in 1983. Both Mr. Harrington and Mr. Sullivan claim to be the best custodian of her tradition of befriending star players and groundskeepers alike; "In know good legal people can break anything, but if this comes to a head there's going to be trouble," said Haywood C. Sullivan of his battle with John L. Harrington for ownership of the Boston Red Sox. (Photographs by Peter Travers) (pg. 29)
 
;

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (68%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON RED SOX FOUR SEASONS HOTELS & RESORTS (52%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (68%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WILLS AND ESTATES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); WILLS (74%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (66%); 

PERSON: YAWKEY, JEAN R; HARRINGTON, JOHN L; SULLIVAN, HAYWOOD C; MARGOLICK, DAVID JEAN R YAWKEY (95%); JOHN L HARRINGTON (91%); HAYWOOD C SULLIVAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1992



839 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1939 words

HEADLINE: The Nail-Biting Delays on Mortgages

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
WHEN Jill and Robert Miller signed a contract for a two-bedroom co-op on the East Side of Manhattan just before Thanksgiving they thought they would be in their new home by now.
But the Millers are still in their rental apartment because the lender from whom they sought a mortgage took so long to handle their application. They finally got a loan from another bank and closed on the apartment at the end of March. They will be moving in after renovations have been completed. 
 Like thousands of other buyers in this frenzied time in the home-loan market, the Millers were trapped by the inability of many lenders to handle even routine applications with dispatch, stretching processing time from weeks to months.
"Getting the mortgage was one of the most frustrating experiences I have been through," said Mr. Miller, who has an insurance business in Manhattan with his father.
Mr. Miller said that the first lender they applied to was taking so long that by the beginning of January their sales contract had expired and the bank was still asking for documentation. Meanwhile, the sellers were getting anxious because they had plans to move out of state and the Millers' lawyer was telling them that they were vulnerable to losing their deposit.
At the beginning of January the Millers withdrew their loan application with United States Trust and switched to Apple Bank, where Mr. Miller had a contact.
"Even with pull," said Mr. Miller, "it took eight weeks to get a loan approval. We were making a down payment of 50 percent of the purchase price because that is what the co-op required. I do not know how people with no bank contacts, and who are going in with less of their own equity, manage today."
United States Trust did not respond to requests for an explanation of the handling of the Millers' application.
WHEN asked if it takes significantly longer for home buyers to get loan commitments today than in the past, many lenders say no. But they acknowledge that an unexpected crush at their doors starting in January, when interest rates fell to their lowest levels in more than 18 years, has pushed their mortgage-loan departments to their limits.
Mortgage brokers and real-estate professionals say that another reason for the delays is that there are fewer lenders making loans today and that those that do are putting applications through a finer screening process.
Lenders say that delays are sometimes created when borrowers submit incomplete applications.
A survey of 20 lenders by the Mortgage Bankers Association showed that the application process had stretched from an average of 20 days to 50 days.
With 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages offered by most area lenders inching back up to the 9 percent level, a gradual slowdown in applications is expected. Even so, the delays have left both buyers and sellers biting their nails and have put some transactions on a wobbly courses.
An irony of the current home-mortgage scene is that while lenders have cut interest rates to make more loans, their tougher evaluation polices and delays are making mortgages harder to come by.
"Everybody is frustrated," said Elinor Racz, a sales agent with Audrey Short Real Estate in East Brunswick, N.J. "I think that if sellers were not so desperate to keep buyers we would have seen more deals fall through over this."
Ann Moore, vice president of William Pitt Relocation Corporate Services in Stamford, Conn., said the delays are adding to the costs for her corporate clients, who pay an average of $40,000 for each relocation.
Ms. Moore said that in the past it took an average of four to six weeks from contract to closing in most transactions that her company handled. "Now," she said, "six to eight weeks from sale to closing is closer to the norm."
John A. Ward 3d, president of Chase Manhattan Personal Finance Service, the Chase bank division that deals with jumbo loans of $202,300 or more, says he understands the frustration that borrowers are feeling these days.
"The worst thing that can happen is for a borrower to have his loan turned down after the bank has had the application for three or four weeks," he said. "That can happen now. The mortgage departments are swamped."
Mr. Ward said that in his segment of the mortgage-money market, where loans average $375,000, most of his applications can be processed in a few days.
"At the high end," he said, "what I offer is a level of service that you cannot give when you are processing $150,000 to $200,000 loans. But even for us the problem is that with the huge increase in refinancing activity, the process has slowed down."
"We are usually held up by the appraisals," he said. "There are not enough appraisers to do the job."
Currently Mr. Ward's division at Chase has 5,000 customers in the pipeline nationwide, three times the volume of 18 months ago.
Jay McGorty, New York State home loan director for Great Western Savings Bank, a California-based lender that has been active in the metropolitan area for the past few years, said that his company is able to make mortgage commitments within 14 to 18 days once borrowers have provided all the data and documents needed to complete their applications.
"Our strength is that all of our documentation people are on staff including appraisers," he said. "Some lenders have to wait for outside people to finish their work before they can commit."
Mr. McGorty also said that because Great Western holds its mortgages instead of selling them on the secondary market, it has greater flexibility and does not have to meet the strict requirements of home-loan buyers like the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae.
ANOTHER factor in Great Western's ability to process loans faster is that it no longer makes loans on co-op apartments, which require a close scrutiny of the financial condition of co-op corporations.
Margaret Scott, president of Mortgage Advisory Service, said matching borrowers with lenders takes longer and is harder theses days, particularly if the buyer is looking for a co-op loan.
"There are fewer banks doing residential loans," she said. "Some that are still making loans are not dealing with co-ops or not lending to co-op apartments in certain categories like studio apartments or in buildings that still have sponsor-owned apartments."
In the past year, she has scratched eight lenders off her list as potential sources for mortgage money. Among them are Goldome Bank, which sold its New York branches to Manufacturers-Hanover, Dollar Dry Dock, which was sold to Emigrant Savings Bank in February and Crossland Savings, declared insolvent and now being supervised by the Resolution Trust Corporation.
"The loss of these lenders is putting a greater burden on the banks that are making loans," said Mrs. Scott.
MANY lenders, still smarting over the losses they suffered as a result of foreclosures and sponsor defaults, are, borrowers and mortgage brokers say, much less forgiving of blemishes on the credit records of applicants, like late charge card payments. As a result, there is more of a chance that a loan will fall through after a tentative commitment has been made.
"Lenders seem to be looking for reasons to screen out people," said Barbara Corcoran, who heads the Corcoran Group, a Manhattan real estate agency. "In the past, once a borrower had a tentative commitment from a bank it was unusual for the loan not to come through. But now things are less sure. We don't even count on loans that are squeaky clean being a sure thing anymore."
Diane Murray, who has been waiting since January for approval on refinancing on a co-op loan, said that a sticking point with her lender is that she changed jobs late last year.
"I had been with my previous job for 13 years," she said. "My credit is good, I am not looking to increase the size of my loan but I still don't have a 'yes' from the bank."
When a loan application is received by a lender it passes through several steps on its way to a commitment. After the loan officer checks to see that all required documents have been received, it moves to the department that verifies the information. If mortgage insurance is required, the application must pass the scrutiny of the insurer's underwriters.
Essentially, these people check employment and income, job stability, the source of a borrower's down-payment money, the borrower's assets and credit history including payments to department stores, finance companies and credit-card companies.
The people who do this kind of work are among the thousands of employees that lenders dismissed in the late 80's when home sales slowed. As a result banks and mortgage companies are scrambling to keep up with a reduced workforce.
Borrowers and real estate brokers say a point in the process that can be particularly problematic is the appraisal. It is not just the shortage of professional appraisers that is contributing to the delay, they say. Sometimes the appraiser's valuation will be lower that the sales contract price.
This sort of snag not only puts the loan commitment into question, but may force the borrower to come up with more cash, seek a lower price from the seller or negotiate a reappraisal.
"We seem to be having more trouble with appraisals now than I can ever remember," said Ms. Corcoran. "It is not just a difference of a few thousand dollars. We are seeing differences of 25 percent or more. It is our biggest concern right now because the appraisal report is a prime consideration in whether or not a lender will commit to a mortgage and how large a loan they will offer if they do."
Ms. Corcoran, said she tries to prepare for potential delays by negotiating longer sales contracts.
"The typical contract used to be for 30 or 45 days," she explained. "That is not enough time now. It is important for the sellers to understand that because, when the bank holds up the process, everybody blames the buyers when it is not their fault."
Borrowers seeking loans underwritten by the State of New York Mortgage Agency, also know as Sonny Mae, have an advantage in the current market in that lenders participating in the agency's low-interest loan program are required to commit to mortages within 60 days of preliminary approval.
THESE borrowers, who usually must be first time home buyers and meet income and purchase price requirements, have more steps in the process than the conventional borrowers. In addition to bank's application, these borrowers must complete paperwork required by the Internal Revenue Service and satisfy the requirements of the mortgage insurer.
"When banks give the Sonny Mae borrowers a tentative commitment," said John N. Spano, who heads the agency's single-family housing unit, "we make a reservation for that loan. If a final approval is not given within 60 days, the reservation is lost."
Both Sonny Mae and the New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency saw their loan applications drop earlier this year when the interest rates being offered by conventional lenders drifted down to the level where mortgage agency loans had been.
To remain competitive, both agencies dropped their interest rates last month. Sonny Mae's new rate -- the lowest level in eight years -- is 7.25 percent for the first five years and 8.20 percent for the remaining 25 years.
The New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency dropped its rate from 8.8 percent to 7.85 percent. The lower rate is linked to a new $30 million mortgage revenue bond. The loans are 30-year, fixed- rate mortgages with a minimum 5 percent down payment required.'

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 26 about delays in getting home mortgages referred erroneously to the time taken by the U.S. Trust Company to act on a recent loan application. The article noted that U.S. Trust had not responded to telephone calls requesting its response to an assertion that it had taken two months. After the article was published, U.S. Trust said that within 24 hours of the loan request it had advised the applicant's mortgage broker that it would not make the loan. The mortgage broker confirms that account.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE BANK CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); THANKSGIVING (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G ROBERT MILLER (90%); JOHN A WARD (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



840 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
A Nasty Mood at Jefferson-Pilot

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
It shakes one's faith in Southern civility to observe the ugliness of the battle being waged between Louise Price Parsons and the gentlemen who run the Jefferson-Pilot Corporation, a $1.1 billion life insurer based in Greensboro, N.C.
Mrs. Parsons, a real estate developer in Pawley's Island, S.C., is a substantial shareholder and the granddaughter of one of the company's early chief executives. She is leading a proxy contest to put up to seven new members on the company's 20-member board. In the course of that battle, which will culminate at the annual meeting on May 4, she has accused the company of negligently misleading shareholders about important executive compensation arrangements. 
 In response, Mrs. Parsons and her husband have been subjected to intense personal attacks by company loyalists. She was rudely rebuffed at last summer's annual meeting by the company's long-time chief executive, W. Roger Soles, who later told Forbes magazine she was an ingrate who "ought to be on her hands and knees thanking the good Lord that the stock has appreciated the way it has."
But last week, the giant California Public Employees Retirement System, known as Calpers, decided to support her challenge, and Jefferson-Pilot's largest institutional investor is reported to have privately pledged its support. Suddenly, what had been belittled as a quixotic mismatch is turning into one of the most interesting contests of this proxy season.
"We are very pleased that Calpers has agreed to support us," said Mrs. Parsons on Friday. "We feel we have gotten good support from the institutions, but we really won't know until next week." One of her advisers, J. Craighill Redwine of the Resources Planning Corporation in Charlotte, N.C., agreed that the race will be close. With a nod to the upcoming Kentucky Derby in Lexington, Ky., he said, "I tell people that there are going to be two really important races next week, one in Kentucky and one in North Carolina."
The Parsons group had announced April 14 that Jefferson-Pilot's "largest institutional shareholder" had filed a proxy supporting their position, although that proxy can be revoked at any time before the final tally. Mr. Redwine said he is not permitted to divulge the investor's identity. According to public records, the company's largest investor as of Dec. 31, 1991, was Invesco MIM in Atlanta; a spokesman there said the firm "has an internal policy not to disclose or comment on its investment decisions."
Jefferson-Pilot executives, for their part, seem undiscouraged. "We've got a long way to go, since institutions tend not to vote until the last minute," said John T. Still 3d, senior vice president for corporate development. "But we are very optimistic." He added, "The key to this whole thing is financial performance, and ours has been excellent. We have never had a shareholder complain about our performance before she did."
Indeed, several Wall Street analysts who cover the company can't see what all the ruckus is about. They see a company with a capital cushion that is three times the industry average, respectable earnings growth and steady gains in book value and dividends.
But some members of Mrs. Parsons' advisory team see something else: A sleeping giant hoarding capital rather than using it to nourish growth. "The economic story, as opposed to the governance story, is a company that is not getting as much out of its capital base as it should," said John A. Pound, a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School and a consultant to Mrs. Parsons.
Other advisors note that the company's average annual stock price has chronically hovered around its per-share book value -- suggesting, they said, that the market doesn't place much of a premium on the things that current management is emphasizing.
Mr. Still dismissed that analysis. "We think we can figure out what is important to shareholders," he said. "A responsible management cannot manage a public company based on the current whims of the market."
The debate on the economic issues is just part of the story, however. The other part, what Professor Pound calls "the governance story," is where the real bitterness begins.
Mrs. Parsons charges that the Jefferson-Pilot directors have become lax in their oversight of an autocratic, well-entrenched management team. Exhibit A in her argument is the way the board has handled important executive compensation matters.
In its 1990 and 1991 proxy statements, the company asked shareholders to approve grants of "restricted" stock as an incentive to key executives, including Mr. Soles. In the Wall Street lexicon, restricted shares are not freely transferrable and thus are less valuable than unrestricted shares. The grants were approved by shareholders.
One problem: The shares that were issued were unrestricted, not restricted shares.
When Mrs. Parsons learned of this, at last year's annual meeting, she sued the company, charging that it had issued a materially false and misleading proxy report -- twice.
The company insists the frequent references to "restricted stock" were simply meaningless mistakes by the corporate secretary -- albeit ones that went undetected by senior management and by the board for two years. At the May 4 meeting, the company will ask shareholders to retroactively approve the grants.
Federal District Judge Richard C. Erwin in Greensboro sees the matter a bit differently. In a decision early this month, he ruled that the company had indeed negligently misled investors about substantial stock grants made to Mr. Soles and several other executives. And he spread the blame around. "Each of the directors who reviewed the proxy statement is equally as negligent for failing to notice the use of the word 'restricted' ten times in the document," he said.
He nullified the stock grants -- and forbade the recipients from voting those shares in the upcoming contest. In a close race, those votes might be sorely missed.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 26 about a proxy contest at the Jefferson-Pilot Corporation of Greensboro, N.C., misidentified the site of the Kentucky Derby. It is Louisville, Ky., not Lexington.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Proxy Battle Ruffles Jefferson Pilot," tracks Jefferson Pilot's stock price, April 1991-April 24, 1992 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IVZ (TSX) (51%); IVZ (NYSE) (51%); IVZ (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (82%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERSON-PILOT CORP LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (94%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (82%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: JEFFERSON-PILOT CORP CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; PROXY CONTESTS SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (71%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (57%); GRANDCHILDREN (56%); 

PERSON: PARSONS, LOUISE PRICE; HENRIQUES, DIANA B W ROGER SOLES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



841 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3473 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Clinton's Standard Campaign Speech: A Call for Responsibility

 BODY:
Following is the text of the campaign speech, excluding a brief introductory passage, that Gov. Bill Clinton delivered at the University of Pittsburgh branch at Johnstown, Pa., on April 22, as transcribed by The New York Times.

 	 	 		. . .	 	I want to make just a few sort of basic points about this election. And I'd like begin with two little statistics, one of which was published a day or two ago in America's newspapers and one of which will be out tomorrow. Statistic No. 1: According to the Federal Reserve Board, 1 percent of America's people at the top of the totem pole now have more wealth than the bottom 90 percent, the biggest imbalance in wealth in America since the 1920's right before the Great Depression. 
 Statistic No. 2, out tomorrow: For the first time in a decade personal income in our country as a whole fell last year. That says we've got problems. And I want to tell you that behind that, I live in a state that is one of the worst states in America, where we were abandoned with farm income going down, factories closing and moving away. The Federal Government cutting back on money for economic development, education, environmental protection. We've got a lot of counties that went through just what you went through in this county.
And in the last 11 years, I had to try to put together an economic strategy to deal with it. I don't like to bore people with statistics, but let me tell you, what's happened here might be worse than what's happened in some other places in Pennsylvania, but it's not all that different from what's happened in America.
For more than two years now, the average middle-class family has worked harder for less money to pay more for health care, for housing, for education, for taxes. Poverty has exploded, especially among working people.
I just got out of a rather bruising campaign in New York State. You might have read about it. But one of the things that really moved me about that was that I met so many courageous people, people you never see on television, who live in the Bronx and Brooklyn, who live in high-crime neighborhoods and get up every day and literally risk their physical security, going to and from jobs that still pay them less than top-level wages, to support children in difficult circumstances, playing by the rules.
For millions and millions of Americans, the dream with which I grew up has been shattered. The ideal that if you work hard and play by the rules you'll be rewarded, you'll do a little better next year than you did last year, your kids will do better than you. But that idea has been devastated for millions of Americans.
How did this happen? I would argue it happened for two reasons. No. 1: We lost our economic leadership. Other nations began to do some things better than we do, and their economies started growing faster and faster as ours slowed down.
 
Big, Simple Ideas
 No. 2, and this is why I'm running for President: We elected people to high office who had the wrong response to the problem. And that's what this election is all about. Three or four big, simple ideas, even though the problems are complex.
What is President Bush's theory about what's good about the economy? That the Government would mess up a one-car parade, and you can't trust anybody in politics or Government. So the answer to our economic problems is to make taxes lower on corporations and high-income individuals, and get out of the way and let the market do the rest.
That's their idea. The other day, the President vetoed a bill passed by the Congress that a pro-business Democrat, Lloyd Bentsen from Texas, got through, a tax bill that would have made it easier for plants to modernize their equipment, for people to start small businesses, for people to buy houses, for people to invest in housing in low-income areas. All these things would have been done and George Bush vetoed the bill. Why? Because those incentives were going to be paid for by raising taxes on upper-income people. And he didn't want to do that, because his theory is keep the taxes low on the rich and the corporations and everything will be fine.
Well everything is not fine. We have had it their way for 11 years. And we're going downhill as a nation. The middle class is collapsing. Poverty is exploding. Even the wealthiest people know that we're on the wrong track.
What is the alternative? That's what I represent. It isn't just more tax and spend. It isn't just fighting over the pie that we've been fighting over for 11 years in Washington. It is a dramatically different economic policy which the Government says we -- starting with the President -- says we're going to work in partnership with business and labor and education, and we're going to create a high-wage economy in this country.
We're going to have a smart-work, high-wage country, not a hard-work, low-wage country. And we're going to do it by beating the competition. Let me give you some examples.
Taxes. In this country if you run a plant, and you're getting competed against by someone who runs a plant with low wages, if you looked at the tax laws of this country, you would think your Government wants you to shut your plant down and move it overseas.
You know why? Let's suppose you have a little plant in Johnstown and you make light bulbs. And you work with 400 folks. And your competition is from overseas. And the only way you can beat the competition is to stay in Johnstown and spend $2 million on a modern piece of equipment. This is a practical example. Your Government will not give you a tax credit to write that equipment off. But if you shut your plant down and move it overseas, you get a tax deduction for shutting the plant down.
Then you start your plant overseas and you lose money the first couple of years when you start the plant. You get to deduct those losses from your American income tax. Then when you start to make money, if you leave your money in a foreign bank, you never have to pay a penny of tax on it.
I'm old-fashioned about this. I think it's O.K. with me if people decided to invest money in other countries because they need to be there. It's O.K. with me if the Europeans invest money in our country and put people to work because they need to be here.
But I'll tell you something, you look at the German tax code. They don't subsidize shutting plants down in their country and moving them overseas. They subsidize people retraining and putting new equipment in their country. And that could be why 32 percent of the German work force is in manufacturing and only 17 percent of the American work force is. If you vote for me, I'm going to try to turn that around and invest in this country again.
Let me give you another example. Health care. You elected Harris Wofford to the Senate on the health-care issue. Why? Because people are scared to death they can't afford their health-care bills, and some people don't have health insurance, and other people are afraid they've got it but they're going to lose it. And the cost of it is going up at two or three times the rate of inflation every year.
You may just assume that's normal in the world. But it isn't. It isn't. You live in the only advanced country where your Government does not step in to organize the health-care system so we keep cost in line with inflation and everybody gets basic health care.
So your country spends 40 percent more of its income than any nation on earth on health care and gets less for it. Why? Let me give you a couple of examples.
Your nation is the only one where there are 1,500 separate health insurance companies, writing thousands of policies covering different things, insuring groups that may be very small. So much so that only 84 cents of the health-insurance dollar goes into health care in America. You know what it is in Europe? Ninety-five cents. You know what the difference is on our health insurance bill? Sixty billion dollars a year.
Your country is the only country in the world where the employment of clerical workers in hospitals has gone up by four times the rate of the employment of nurses and doctors and other health caregivers. Because we are drowning in a sea of paper work brought on by health-insurance organizations, health-care bureaucracies and the Government itself.
We have steel mills. Look what happened to steel employment. We have steel mills in this country that have over $4 an hour in health-care costs for retired steelworkers. How can you compete with the rest of the world?
Look at what's happened with automobiles. I get mad at the automobile manufacturers, and the auto workers have done a good job of changing the work rules trying to be more productive. But one thing that's not the auto companies' fault is health-care costs. If you drove here in an American car today that you bought in the last three years, you have got $500 in health-care costs more than if you drove here in a European or Japanese car. How can we compete?
Why did this happen? Because your Government has arrogantly refused to do what all of our competitors have done and crack down on the cost of health care and provide a basic health-care package to all. The people that don't have health insurance, do they get health care? You bet they do. But when it's too late, too expensive, they show up at an emergency room, and those of you with health insurance pay the bill.
And I'm telling you, if you don't ask the President to give you national health insurance, it won't matter if 100 percent of the Congress is for it, you're not going to get it. If you vote for me, I'll give you a national health-insurance plan.
Example No. 3: We live in a world in which what you earn depends on what you can learn. We live in a world where the average 18-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. Think about it. That means we live in a world where institutions like this one will become more and more important.
And yet, in your country, we have no system to train all the young people who finish high school but don't go on to college. The people who don't go to four-year schools that don't want to be in dead-end jobs. What happened?
Earnings of younger families under 30 have declined 42 percent in the last 15 years. What happened? Younger high school graduates with no higher education, their earnings have gone down massively in the last 15 years.
High school dropouts in the work force -- out there working for a living -- what's happened to them? Their earnings have gone down over 40 percent in the last 15 years. Why? Because we live in a world in which what you earn depends on what you can learn.
What is the answer? The answer is to look at what the competition does. Look at what the Europeans do. Look at what the Japanese do. Look at what the countries who are paying people better do. If you don't go to college and you get out of high school, you ought to be in an apprenticeship program in this country, and everybody ought to have the right to two years of further training after high school, and Government ought to organize a partnership to get it done.
The earnings of college graduates now are 70 percent more than the earnings of high school graduates in the first year of work. That's over two-and-a-half times what the difference was 10 years ago. What does that mean? That means anybody who wants to go to college and is able to academically ought to be able to go.
But the cost of a college education has gone up by more than health care in the last 10 years. And the dropout rate in college is two and a half times the high school dropout rate.
Here's what I think ought to be done. I think we ought to tell every sixth and seventh and eighth grader, if you stay in school and make decent grades and you want to go to college, you'll be able to go. Here's how.
We ought to scrap the student loan program that exists now. It wastes a lot of money and it doesn't work very well. Here's what I would put in its place. I would put in its place a domestic G.I. bill, a national service trust fund. Anybody can borrow the money to go to college. Any American, without regard to income, no questions asked. Here's your obligation. You would sign a contract to pay it back in one of two ways: your choice. Either as a small percentage of your income over time after you get out of school and go to work, paid at tax time so you couldn't beat the bill.
But you pay according to what you earn, not just how much you borrowed but what you earn. So it wouldn't punish people if they wanted to be police officers or teachers, or work in public service work, people would pay according to what they earn.
Or what I would hope would happen: Every American who borrowed the money would have the option to pay it off with a year or two of national service where you could go back home and you could actually work for a reduced pay; the Federal Government would pay you, just like the Peace Corps except here at home.
Go home and be a police officer; go home and be a preschool teacher; go home and work in a drug program; go home and work in a housing program; go home and help the homeless. Help to solve the problems of America.
 
A Call for Change
 We can educate a whole new generation of Americans. That's the first big idea this election time. Is that what a government does or not? If you vote for President Bush, he'll give you four more years of the same, except he'll say a little more, just like he did in 1988, when he put out the kinder, gentler number, education and the environment.
So now he'll be for a little more. But look at the evidence. They've had 11 years. Ten years ago we had the highest wages in the world. Now we're 10th. Income went down last year for the first time in a decade, but two-thirds of the American people have had their incomes going down for more than 10 years. If we vote for four more years of the same, we're going to get what we deserve.
The second big idea you've got to face is this. What kind of people do you want to be? What kind of citizens are we?
There are a lot of things wrong with America that the Government can't fix. We got this idea in the 80's that we all ought to get it while we can and forget about our friends and neighbors and turn a quick buck. Some people did that by joining gangs and selling drugs on street corners in devastated cities.
Other people did it by selling their companies down the drain with leveraged buyouts and funny financial transactions that made a ton of money for the people who were pushing the paper, and threw all the factory workers out on the street with no future.
And as a result of that, this country is very divided today. We're divided by race and region, by income, by age, by gender. We are all cut up. And I'm telling you, we can't fake it. There's only one President. There's only 535 members of Congress. There are 250 million Americans. We have got to say we want to be one nation again.
We also have to say we also know there are some things the Government can't do. No one can give us an opportunity if we will not take the responsibility for seizing it.
The Republicans always talk about welfare. I know a lot about the welfare system. I spent a lot of time studying it. I hate it. I want to change it. But you know what? The people who are trapped in it, they hate it, too. It's like being caught on a reservation and kept in dependency. And it's no good for anybody.
But you know the right way to change it? I'm for making people on welfare go to work, but you've got to understand why they don't. Most people who are trapped on welfare and don't go to work don't do it because they have no education, they have no skills. If they went on to work, they'd get a minimum-wage job, they couldn't afford child care and they'd give up the Medicaid coverage which gives their children medical benefits. Nobody in their right mind hurts their kids.
You wouldn't do that. So what should we do? Give education, training, child care and medical coverage that make people go to work where they can get jobs. In the culture, require people to be responsible but give them the opportunity to do it.
We ought to have more help for families in this country, but we also ought to require more responsibility. I live in a state where we can fine parents if they won't show up when their kids are in trouble in school. A lot of people think that's harsh but it's a little statement that there are some things the Government can't do if people aren't willing to do for themselves.
I favor giving working poor people an earned income tax credit that can actually give them some money back from the Government to get them above the poverty line. I think if somebody's out there working 40 hours a week, raising kids they ought to be rewarded.
And I favor putting with that the toughest conceivable system of child-support enforcement. I'm tired of people bringing kids into the world and leaving them for the Government to raise.
We've got to decide what kind of people we are.
 
Responsibility of Citizens
 The last thing I'm going to tell you is this. You've got to decide whether you believe in citizenship or not. It's always so fashionable to hate politicians today. Especially me, look at all the stuff you've heard about me.
I'll tell you how bad it is. I was at home the other day at a fund-raising lunch in Little Rock where 1,000 people paid $100 to come have lunch with me. Just my friends and neighbors trying to boost my campaign. And this guy who's like a brother to me, he's about 61 years old, has a 9-year-old daughter who's a genius. This kid is brilliant. And she made up a joke. Here's the joke of a 9-year-old:
A child asks her father: "Dad do all fairy tales begin 'Once upon a time . . .'?" The father says: "No. Some fairy tales begin 'Now, when I'm elected . . .' "
I realize that people don't believe in the political system anymore. And that they believe the worst in politicians when they hear it.
But when I was a kid, my mother was widowed just before I was born. She went off to nursing school and left me to be raised by my grandparents until I was 4. My grandparents ran a tiny grocery store in an integrated neighborhood in a little Southern town. My grandmother was a private duty nurse, but they told me that in the Depression, Franklin Roosevelt was President and gave people hope again by giving them jobs again and giving them work to do.
And they told me if I worked hard and studied hard and played by the rules I could do anything. And I remember how they taught me to count and taught me to read when I was 2 and 3 and 4 years old. They had very little formal education.
Then I came up through the public schools because of the Government. I went to college and got a loan from the Government. I went to law school and got a loan from the Government. Even though I had six jobs while I was in law school, I had to have a loan, and I paid back every penny of it. Because that gave me a chance to make a decent living and have a future.
And when I was the age of the youngest people here, because we had a sound economic policy, I lived in an economy with 3 percent unemployment, 3 percent inflation and 3 or 4 percent real economic growth every year. Because we were competing and winning.
The best thing that the incumbent President has going for him today is that people no longer believe Government can produce anything. They're prepared to believe the worst about politicians. And folks have really given up on the American dream.
This country was set up over 200 years ago by people who believed they had a moral obligation to vote, and who knew if they were well acquainted with the issues, well acquainted with the politicians and the people would do what they were supposed to do at election time, that this country would last forever as a democracy.
And we have made it. Because the people have fought cynicism, and have fought their own doubts. And in all the tough times have made the right decisions.
I want you to go out there Tuesday and vote, and I hope that you will vote for me. I want you to go in November and vote, and if I'm there, and I think I will be, then I hope you will vote for me.
But to say that all the politicians are a bunch of bums and the country can't work anymore and everything's gone downhill, is a cop-out. Because this system begins with you, and this election is about you. It isn't about me. It's about you and your problems and your promise and your future, and all these little kids who are here tonight.
You need a different kind of President. You need people committed to pulling together. And you need to believe again that we can make a difference. The beginning of everything is believing that we can do better. Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton speaking in Philadelphia. His campaign speech has evolved to a focused talk about his vision for America. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); CHILDREN (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1992



842 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 8; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: School Districts Pool Funds for Investment

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
A CASH management program whose first five clients were Westchester school districts has expanded to 140 school districts and municipalities in several states -- all seeking to earn competitive returns on public investments by pooling their resources.
Sharing services for special education, insurance coverage and garbage removal is a common practice among school districts. Extending this concept to investments was the brainchild of Francie Heller, a former speech teacher and school administrator who lives in New Rochelle. She is now executive vice president of M.B.I.A. Municipal Investors Service. 
 "I sought economy of scale," she said. "All schools have the same problem of how and where to invest. Why couldn't they band together and share investment services, since professional money management is a luxury that individual school districts can't afford?"
By law, public funds in New York State can be invested in only three vehicles: New York State bank certificates of deposit, United States Treasury bonds and New York State municipal tax-free bonds.
"Safety of public funds has always been first and foremost," Ms. Heller said. "But I thought we could realize a greater return."
 
Searching for the Best Rates
 Ms. Heller, a speech pathologist, said that when she became school administrator for the eight schools in the Ossining School District: "I was put in charge of a $20 million budget that came from state aid and tax money paid by property owners. We had eight paydays a year, and it was the job of our assistant superintendent for business to invest the money as it came in.
"We always had to spend an inordinate amount of time rate-shopping, evaluating the credit quality of short-term investments, searching for the best way to invest our funds. Although he did better investing our funds than a lot of other schools, the procedure was time consuming and it locked our money up for a set length of time."
Thinking that there must be a better way, Ms. Heller sat down, identified the need for a school government money-management service and wrote a proposal.
"I took it around to five Wall Street houses," she said. "Three were not interested in any idea presented to them by an outsider. One thought it might have merit and offered me a job as a trainee. But the last house I went to, Bear Stearns, thought it was a great idea. They offered to let me develop it."
On the strength of that, Ms. Heller resigned from the school district in June 1989 and started commuting to Wall Street.
 
'I Knew I Was in the Right Place'
 At first, Ms. Heller recalled, she felt she had entered a different culture. "Even the language and the vocabulary was foreign to me," she said. "I'd surreptitiously write down words and phrases that I didn't understand and look them up at night. But in my bones, I knew that I was in the right place. I have always been interested in the market."
As a single parent, Ms. Heller said, her own research in the investment market helped put her four children through college.
After two years of legal review, research and meetings with municipal and school officials responsible for making investment decisions, Ms. Heller, by then president of the Bear Stearns Public Funds Investment Group, created her new program. She called it Class, a cash management program for municipal and school business officials.
"We were up and running and got our first clients very quickly," Ms. Heller said. "They were five Westchester school districts -- Croton-Hudson, Ossining, Hendrick Hudson in Montrose, Northern Westcheter/ Putnam Boces and Peekskill -- and they knew the value of banding together because they had worked together on an insurance co-op."
 
Insuring Municipal Securities
 In January last year, the Class program was acquired by Municipal Bond Investors Assurance Corporation of Armonk, and Ms. Heller joined M.B.I.A. Municipal Investors Service, a wholly owned subsidiary, as executive vice president.
The parent company, M.B.I.A., was founded in White Plains in 1974 and was a pioneer in developing municipal bond insurance. It is now the country's leading insurer of municipal securities.
"But up until 1990, we only had one product," said Leon J. Karvelis Jr., president of Municipal Investors Service, the subsidiary that now offers and administers the Class program. "When we decided to diversify, we called in a consultant to help us find a compatible product in the field of municipal financial services. When he found Ms. Heller and the Class program at Bear Stearns, we knew it was a perfect fit."
Since M.B.I.A. acquired the program, it has expanded to include 140 clients: villages, towns, school districts, cities and fire districts with a combined $550 million to invest.
The fee for the program is 40 basis points (slightly less than one-half of 1 percent) deducted from the interest. When an interest rate is quoted to a municipality or school district, it is a net rate, Ms. Heller said.
"We have already expanded out of New York State into Connecticut and Rhode Island," Mr. Karvelis said. "We are taking it nationwide. In each state, funds are only invested in high-quality instruments that are legally permitted in that state."
"With cash in hand, schools can often take advantage of discounts for such things as snow removal, fuel delivery, scholarships and grants," Ms. Heller said. She is now responsible for expanding the program nationwide and for administrative and marketing activities.
As an example of how the program can help a client, Ms. Heller cited the Rye City School District and its construction of a stadium at Rye High School. William Barrett, assistant superintendent of the district, praised what he called the convenience and liquidity of the program, which allowed him at the start of construction to increase his account balance.
"In that way we were able to pay our bills when they came due instead of having to wait for CD's to mature," he said. "That made us the preferred project under contract, and we were able to finish the stadium two months earlier than planned."
Leonard Verastro, Clerk-Treasurer of the Village of Mamaroneck, also is happy with the Class program. "I am very pleased with the increased yield, which coupled with the liquidity factor makes this program unique," he said. "Additionally, we are given a degree of control through the quarterly meetings we have with all the other participants and M.B.I.A. advisers."
Eleanor McDonald, Comptroller for the town of Harrison, said, "The Class program allows full use of our funds with enhanced safety for the town." And the assistant comptroller of Harrison, Lawrence Schopfer, added, "It gives us competitive rates of return in an uncompetitive interest-rate environment, without tying up our funds."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); BEAR STEARNS PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT GROUP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT GROUP (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; FINANCES SCHOOL DISTRICTS (94%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); SPEECH THERAPY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; HELLER, FRANCIE FRANCIE HELLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



843 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 12; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Showcase for Kitchen Designer

BYLINE: By VALERIE CRUICE

 BODY:
"I NEVER thought of myself as a kitchen lady," said Beverly Ellsley, an architectural and interior designer and builder, as she munched thoughtfully on a blueberry muffin in her Westport showroom. "I am the world's most reluctant cook."
But Mrs. Ellsley was invited to create the kitchen for one of the most prestigious showcases of interior design, the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Show House in Manhattan. 
 "It's thrilling," said the 46-year-old designer. "I've gone to see Kips Bay every year. When I was first in business, I was dying to be in there. In 1985 I turned 40 and did Kips Bay. That was a banner year."
Indeed. Her first assignment for Kips Bay was to decorate a bedroom. Its built-in bed earned an award from House Beautiful magazine as one of the 10 best show-house rooms.
"This year's house is a very, very elegant building," she said. "It's their 20th anniversary year, and they wanted a very special house."
This year the kitchen space is on the same level as the living and dining rooms, instead of in the basement, so it had to be as elegant as the rest of the house, Mrs. Ellsley said. "And being near the living room -- it's probably the most gorgeous living room in New York -- it's a tough act to follow," she said.
The show house, which benefits the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, opened last week. The building, on Manhattan's Upper East Side, is a 1912 town house designed in neoclassic French style by the architectural firm of Taylor & Levi. Nineteen interior designers and seven decorative painters have been invited to participate.
Mrs. Ellsley faced several major challenges in taking on this project. "We have lots of windows -- seven, low ceilings, four doorways, all kinds of weird stuff," she said. "Plus there had been an existing kitchen. We took a wall down, and we had to cover a plumbing chase. Let me tell you, working in a house is so much easier than a New York City building."
What emerged from the rubble is elegant cabinetry, a honed marble floor, carved backsplashes and linen-fold carvings. The refrigerator's double doors are mirrored and simulate multipaned French doors.
"It's a working kitchen," she said, "wonderful if you're cooking alone for a family and wonderful for a staff to come in and cook for entertaining."
Mrs. Ellsley, who manufactures her own cabinetry, said she took her cue from existing carvings in the town house.
"The doors that lead from the hallway to the living room, and the original doors that had led from the hallway to the dining room, had carvings of linen folds and grapes," she said. "So, certainly the cabinetry is not as intricate as the living room of this house. But it's in the same spirit.".
 
What Recession?
 Her husband and business manager, Bob Ellsley, estimated the cost of cabinetry and counter tops at $70,000.
Kitchen design and cabinetry constitute almost half of Mrs. Ellsley's business. Construction and interior design make up the difference.
Has the business felt the recession?
"We had our recession in 1990," Mr. Ellsley replied. "We had a record year last year, and our business is up 40 percent so far this year."
She has found that there is a market for quality in recessionary times, she said. "And there's certainly a market for American-made. Customers would rather buy American. As designers, we have not pushed toward the European look."
The Ellsleys have also found that their customers are well informed about cabinetry. "I guess I'm shocked at how many people take the time to come in and see how well it's made," Mr. Ellsely said. "It's surprising how knowledgeable they've become. Even the most wealthy people are careful about what they're spending money on."
As an 18-year-old, Mrs. Ellsley came to Manhattan from her native Chicago to pursue an acting career. "I studied with Stella Adler," she said. "I was making the rounds acting and tap dancing. I waitressed at the Flick on Second Avenue. I did all that stuff."
She returned to Chicago to care for her ailing mother and went on to study dress design there. She met her husband at a dog track in Florida, married, moved back to New York and then to Westport.
Mrs. Ellsley started her design business 20 years ago as a young mother. "Let me tell you how I got into this mess," she chuckled heartily, leaning forward. "As an interior designer in Westport, you could starve to death. Everyone was house poor from putting on additions.
"I was forever walking into people's houses saying 'Don't bother to paint the walls pink -- move them!' So I moved toward interior architecture. I liked the hands-on of the sawdust and the carpentry. I liked being with the boys."
What Mrs. Ellsley did not care for was being second-guessed by contractors. She said: "I became a building contractor 18 years ago, because I was arm wrestling every macho contractor in town. I didn't want to have to prove myself. We do our own architectural design, interior design and building design. I was tired of the fights between the factions. I love control, I'm into control. By having my own carpenter, who works only for me, I say 'Move that wall,' they say 'You bet.' "
After her first big client took a "tremendous" chance on her, Mrs. Ellsley's business took off, particularly kitchen renovations. "Because we started getting requests for doing kitchens, I started looking for cabinets," she said. "It was all pine with a shine. I was doing a lot of country in the early 70's. American Country was the look. I helped establish it, because several of the first few jobs were in 18th-century houses.
"When it came to the cabinet business, because everything was awful, we started making our own in my carpenter's basement 16 years ago. He has a master's degree in engineering."
Today, she said, she works with more maple than before and still does a lot of clear-sugar pine. "It's light finishes that are in," she said.
 
Bringing In a Partner
 Five years ago her husband joined her enterprise. He had been a men's sweater manufacturer in New York for 27 years, and was "product oriented and had the head for the business end," Mrs. Ellsley said.
"It was sheer hell for the first six months," she recalled. "I thought everyone was going to quit. The reason is, when a husband of 20 years joins the business, it's all the same stuff you fight about at home.
"Then suddenly, the business was nonstop. It would start at 6 in the morning, and the last thing at night would be, 'Did you call the plumber?' "
Two changes led to a harmonious business relationship, Mrs. Ellsley explained: they maintain separate offices, and "we decided we would not discuss business if we are not in our underwear."
The Kips Bay show house is  at 32 East 70th Street and will be open to the public through May 12. Hours are Monday through Saturday, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday noon to 5 P.M. and Tuesday and Thursday evenings until 8. Admission is $15; no children under 6, including infants, will be admitted.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Beverly Ellsley, a designer and builder in Westport, in the kitchen she created for a Manhattan show house. (Photographs by Nick Malter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN INTERIOR DECORATING (92%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%); 

PERSON: CRUICE, VALERIE; ELLSLEY, BEVERLY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



844 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 21; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Showcase Reflects Island's Changes

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
THE history of Tulip Tree Hill in Lattingtown reflects the Gold Coast, once the setting for numberless sprawling mansions, where residents of distinction enjoyed an opulent style of life.
An estate of more than 50 acres, Tulip Tree Hill has been subdivided and sold in four-acre parcels. But the sprawling country manor, known today as Lockjaw Ridge, and a separate entertainment pavilion, itself a mansion called Sporting Ridge, are set on rolling hills surrounded by tulip trees and isolated behind a red-brick wall. 
 The two buildings have been chosen by Mansions and Millionaires Inc. as the site of the 20th Designers' Showcase, which opens tomorrow and continues through June 7. The Family Service Association of Nassau County is a beneficiary.
 
41 Designers Involved
 The interiors of both mansions have been decorated by 41 designers from Long Island and New York City. They have created lighting, floors, walls and doors, and have furnished rooms and spaces to exemplify styles of historical periods.
The two adjacent buildings are on the former estate of Charles Gates. Lockjaw Ridge, the original mansion, was built for Mr. and Mrs. Gates in 1913, when it was named Dormer House for its 15 dormered hip-roofed windows.
When it was sold to its second owners, Mr. and Mrs. George Sloane, the mansion was renamed Brookmeade, for the breeding stable of horses belonging to Isabel Dodge-Sloane, known as the First Lady of Racing.
After her divorce, Mrs. Sloane remained in the mansion and, in 1930, added a wing with an indoor swimming pool and master-bedroom suite. She also hired an architect to create a separate Georgian mansion with an indoor tennis court that was to be used as an entertainment pavilion.
Years later, the addition, named Sporting Ridge, was acquired by Guillermo Villas, the former tennis star, and his coach, Ian Tiriac, to be used for practice and as a vacation retreat.
 
How Mansion Acquired Its Name
 The original mansion received its name of Lockjaw Ridge from its third resident of distinction, Patrice Munsel, the youngest soprano to appear as a principal at the Metropolitan Opera. An outsider to Lattingtown and neighboring Locust Valley, Ms. Munsel poked fun at the way the residents spoke in an affected manner, with their lower jaws in a rigid position.
"Ms. Munsel added a little salt to open wounds when she named the estate Lockjaw Ridge," the president of Mansions and Millionaires, Arlene Travis, said. "To this day, those who speak with an affectation are said to have Locust Valley lockjaw."
While Ms. Munsel lived in Lockjaw Ridge, she broke up the mansion into smaller apartments to rent, marking the beginning of the downfall of the estate. In recent years, Lockjaw Ridge has had other owners. Both mansions are now privately owned, and they will be on the market for sale after the showcase.
The two mansions tell the real-estate story of Long Island, Mrs. Travis said.
 
Mystique Has Continued
 "It was impossible to afford the upkeep of the grounds," she said. "And estates throughout the Island's North Shore were broken up and sold. But despite the demise of the grand life style, the mystique over the way the people lived has continued. People have burning questions to know how the prominent people lived, and Designers' Showcase is one chance for them to get behind the estate walls."
The showcase is expected to attract 65,000 to 75,000 visitors, Mrs. Travis said. When she and her partner, Carol Aronson, contracted the mansions for the showcase, they explored the empty buildings to obtain a sense of how the people lived in them, Mrs. Travis explained.
Lockjaw Ridge has more than 30 rooms, 15 fireplaces, the pool and many handcrafted details, including paneling from England, hand-hewn beams and Palais de Versailles floors. In Sporting Ridge, an early mural has been preserved in the entrance foyer.
 
Cost-Effective Materials Used
 Economic times have changed, moves that are seen in toned-down opulence and excess, said Gail Green of New York City, who designed the Lockjaw Ridge kitchen for the showcase. The emphasis is on using new and cost-effective materials in a more streamlined and straightforward approach, she said.
"We're looking at longevity," Ms. Green explained. "The economy has forced designers to be more imaginative and to look at new possibilities. In doing so, we found to our surprise that new materials can be used more effectively."
Helen Bitter of Glen Cove, who decorated the butler's pantry, said, "We've had to adapt to the economy, and in my designs I've eliminated all extravagance."
This showcase is the sixth for Eileen Boyd of Huntington, who designed the master-bedroom sitting room. "I've absolutely changed with the economic times," she said. "I have used less expensive fabrics and materials and mixed in old textiles with new."
But for James Galise of Cold Spring Harbor, the economy has had little impact. "The clientele who spends is still spending," he said. "They may be a little more cautious with their money, but they're still spending."
The showcase hours are 10:30 A.M. to 4 P.M., Mondays through Fridays and noon to 5 on Saturdays, Sundays and Memorial Day. Admission is $15, $13 for the elderly and $7 for children 3 to 12.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Artists's rendering of the country manor known as Lockjaw Ridge, in Lattingtown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN REAL ESTATE (77%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HORSES (65%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (62%); OPERA (61%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA ARLENE TRAVIS (71%); PATRICE BEVERLY MUNSEL (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



845 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: All About/Temporary Workers;
Filling the Gaps in the Post-Recession Work Force

BYLINE: By JUDITH BERCK; Judith Berck is a freelance writer and author of "No Place to Be: Voices of Homeless Children."

 BODY:
Stock prices, housing starts and possibly even sunspots are leading economic indicators. But some analysts suggest watching the temporary services industry to get an even better jump on the news.
Trends in the employment of temporary workers presage shifts in general employment. Temporaries are the first to go in an economic contraction as workloads dwindle. "Then, if the work activity continues to drop, layoffs of permanent employees start," said Bruce Steinberg, spokesman for the National Association of Temporary Services, a 1,000-member industry group. When work begins to pick up, many companies test the waters with temporaries before plunging into permanent hires. 
 If that pattern is valid, good times may soon be here again. According to the association, the temporary-help industry began turning around in the fourth quarter of 1991, after falling into a slump in 1989. The association said 13 percent more people were employed as temporaries in the fourth quarter of 1991 than at the beginning of the year.
While 1991 will still post a decline overall, the fourth-quarter upturn is significant since traditionally the end of the year shows a decline. "The demand by firms like small-item manufacturers just mushroomed after the summer of 1991 -- I mean in excess of 20 percent over the prior year," said Mitchell Fromstein, chief executive of Manpower Inc., in Milwaukee, Wis., the largest company in the temporary-help business.
The South and Midwest have been making the strongest comebacks. In New York City, where the big temp users are financial companies and law firms, the phones started ringing again a few months later than elsewhere around the country. "It's been since December that we felt sure about a pickup," says Stephanie Messina, a branch manager in New York of Solo Word Processing, a temporary-help company in New York. "I'm sending out temps now who hadn't worked for me in two or three years."
At Goldman Sachs, the investment firm, increased usage of clerical temps has paralleled the fall and rise of business activity. "Since 1987, our usage of temporaries decreased approximately 10 percent a year," said Donna Cappella, vice president of personnel. "At the end of 1990, it started creeping back up again, and now I'd say we're almost where we were in 1987."

 
 
The Big Three
Manpower, Kelly And Olsten Lead
 The temporary services industry supplies workers like typists, word processors or light-industry assemblers to companies on a short-term basis, often at a moment's notice, to handle special projects, work overload and worker absences. It is dominated by a trio of behemoths with widely varying business operations. Manpower is not only the biggest but also the most international. It had revenues of $3.5 billion last year, about half of that coming from abroad. Manpower has both company-owned and franchised offices in the United States
Kelly Services Inc., the No. 2, company, had sales last year of $1.4 billion, all from company-owned offices, predominantly in the United States. The Olsten Corporation, No. 3, had $838 million in sales last year from a mix of company-owned and franchised offices in the United States and Canada. These companies compete with hundreds of mom-and-pop operations with thousands of offices around the country.
Last year, about 6 million people worked as temps, with about 1 million employed at any one time. Temporary workers earned about $10 billion in the United States, according to Mr. Steinberg of the temporary services association.
Highly skilled workers, like computer progammers, can do quite well temping. They are paid an average of $23.40 an hour, according to the association. Word processors earn about $10.55 while unskilled workers, like security guards, are paid about $6.05 an hour. Generally, temps are not covered by company health plans or by unemployment insurance. On top of the temps' hourly pay, a client must pay a markup of 25 percent to 35 percent as a fee for the service.

 
 
A Limited Upturn
No One Is Fooling About Cost Controls
 At temporary services companies, the atmosphere before the recession had been like that for a taxi dispatcher on a rainy night; the phones were ringing at all hours.
Then came the big slowdown in work orders. Some corporations put a freeze on using temps altogether. Many small temporary services companies were forced to close their doors or were acquired by larger companies. Large firms with several offices in one market consolidated their operations.
Even as available work was dwindling, more people were applying to become temps.
"Many more people now are temporaries not by choice, but because they can't find another job." said Ms. Messina. "They never thought they'd be a temp in their whole life."
While corporations are calling temporary services companies more often these days, things have not returned to the pre-recession norm. Diane Boardman, for example, a dancer who had temped for over a decade, recently returned to temping after taking a permanent job for two years. "When I went back temping," he said, "it seemed a lot more low-key. There was much less going on. Even the lights seemed dimmer."
Before the recession, corporate practices regarding temporary workers were freewheeling; ordering a temp was an easy matter, cost was no object. Those days are over. Chastised by hard times, most corporations are exercising tight, centralized control over any spending on and usage of temps.
As a result, many corporations turn first to their own permanent employees when they need more help, even if it means paying overtime. "If an attorney needs somebody, we try to use a member of our floating staff, or we switch the secretaries around, depending upon whether their attorney is in that day," said John Neary, director of finance at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, a law firm in New York.
At Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., cost-control measures include a new rule that employees cannot hire a temporary worker for less than a week, or more than 90 days, said company spokesman James Wiggins. "In 1991, our use of temporary employment was actually down 46 percent from 1990. We are hoping to maintain that level of usage in 1992," Mr. Wiggins said. Some companies have done away with outside temporaries altogether and formed their own in-house departments.

 
 
And Lower Pay
The Point Is Just To Keep a Job
 But use of temporary workers is going up despite policy and procedural changes at some corporations. According to the National Association of Temporary Services, in-house departments will never replace outside temps. "When a company takes it in-house," said Mr. Steinberg, "they discover there are many hidden costs -- you need a dedicated person, you need office space. It takes concentration away from the core business."
Pressure to maintain the bottom line, though, has pushed down the hourly markups charged by some temporary services companies, as well as hourly rates for temps. "Companies have learned they can say to a certain point, 'We're only going to pay this much for a temp,' " said Nadine Berkowitz, regional vice president of Solo Word Processing.
"There's a lot of undercutting by temporary companies trying to hold on to their business," Ms. Berkowitz said. At the same time, many temps are willing to accept lower hourly rates. "The temp with mortgage payments feels that a smaller paycheck is better than none at all," said Ms. Berkowitz.
 
 
 
KELLY CLIMBS FROM THE '91 GLOOM
 After a depressing 1991, Kelly Services, the nation's second-largest temporary services company, which is based in Troy, Mich., is beginning to feel a decided quickening in the economy's pulse.
Kelly, founded in 1946, made its name by supplying short-term clerical help -- the "Kelly Girls," although never so named by the company. Nowadays, word processing temps and workers for light industrial slots as well as and technical areas, like computer programming, have joined the clerical force.
Kelly's clients range from megacorporations to mom-and-pop stores. The company owns and operates more than 950 branch offices, with 150 of them outside the United States, and places some 550,000 temporary employees annually from those offices.
Temporary services had been a growth industry, and Kelly, a leader in it. Sales increased at the company from $369 million in 1979 to $1.38 billion in 1989. Net earnings grew from $15 million to $71 million in the same period, and Kelly doubled the number of its offices.
Then the recession hit. After seven consecutive years of steady sales and earnings growth, 1991 earnings dropped 46 percent, to just $38.6 million. Revenues, which had topped $1.47 billion in 1990, eased back to $1.4 billion.
But the clouds have been lifting lately. Kelly began to have an increase in work volume starting in the third quarter of 1991. "When business turns up, companies initially try to get more output per worker, because to some degree they may have been underutilized during the recession." said Richard D. Rippe, Chief Economist at Prudential Securities, Inc.
The next step is to hire temps, then permanent workers after an expansion sets in. For Kelly, the pickup began first in smaller cities with populations between 100,000 and 1 million, such as Jacksonville, Fla.; Salt Lake City and San Antonio, Tex. Work volume at Kelly's offices in the larger cities started to rise in the fourth quarter, the company said.
There is a big difference, however, between the pickup seen lately and the activity which followed prior recessions.
"You can't mirror this to when we started coming out of the recession of 1981-82," said Carolyn Fryar, a Kelly senior vice president. "When we started coming out of that at the end of 1982 and early 1983, we were just booming, with incredible revenue increases. I don't think we're going to repeat what happened then."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nadine Berkowitz of Solo Word Processing, standing, left. The take is down for companies and temps alike. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A Light at the End of the Tunnel?" tracks average number of temporary daily employees, 1sr qtr 1990-4th qtr 1991 (Source: Association of Temporary Services)
 
Table: "The Going Rate," lists estimated hourly wages for temporary workers in 1991, by job category (Source: National Association of Temporary Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MANPOWER INC; KELLY SERVICES INC; OLSTEN CORP MANPOWERGROUP (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF TEMPORARY SERVICES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANPOWER INC; KELLY SERVICES INC; OLSTEN CORP NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF TEMPORARY SERVICES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (72%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: BERCK, JUDITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



846 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: New Heyday of Gnostic Heresies

BYLINE: By Harold Bloom; Harold Bloom is author, most recently, of "The American Religion: The Emergence of the Post-Christian Nation."

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Conn.

 BODY:
In August, when Operation Rescue militants assaulted abortion clinics in Wichita, Kan., President Bush's Justice Department sided not with the Federal judge who had ordered that the clinics be kept open and whose jurisdiction it was, but with the mob itself. The President urged the Operation Rescue stalwarts to soften their protests, but otherwise he gave them his approval.
Many of the same activists are involved in the current Operation Rescue campaign in Buffalo, but the national election is now eight months closer and the Justice Department is more reluctant to intervene. It is an apt moment to consider again what might be called President Bush's linked emblems, the Flag and the Fetus, respectively the Cross and the Divine Child of what we may yet learn to call the American Religion, of which the Reagan-Bush Republican party has become the secular branch. 
 The Operation Rescue "warriors of prayer" are a curious mix: Assemblies of God Pentecostals, Roman Catholic priests and nuns, assorted fundamentalists and followers of new and still obscure denominations. What unites them is their passionate defense of the fetus as a living being and their conviction that the President and his Administration stand with them.
Some among these rescuers of the fetus are equally passionate defenders of creationism and indeed connect their stance against evolution to their position against abortion. Though they attribute both crusades to biblical infallibility, a hidden belief is at work here. It is not so much that they know that God made them and every endangered fetus, but rather that they have another knowledge. Their deepest conviction is that they were not part of the Creation, but existed as spirits before it, and so are as old as God Himself.
To be told that they evolved from a common ancestor of themselves and of apes is no better or worse for them than to be assured that they all descend from a single African woman. What wounds them unforgivingly is not the idea of evolution (in whatever version) but the insinuation that they were never God, or part of Him. Their sense of their freedom depends ultimately on being free not only of time and of nature but, more secretively, being free of the very Creationism they urge on the rest of us.
That ultimate freedom returns us to President Bush's defense of the flag and the fetus, both equally dear to fundamentalists and their Operation Rescue allies. Many defenders of a woman's right to abortion are embittered by the greater concern President Bush and the Rescuers evidently have for the fetus than for the infant. The fetus must not be aborted, but whether the infant starves or not seems, for them, a very secondary matter.
Let us cast this bitterness away; as American Religionists, the President and his pneumatic supporters are devoutly sincere. Unwitting Gnostics, they follow the ancient heresy of believing that the Creation and the Fall were one and the same event. They therefore value the unborn over the born, the innocent and spiritual godlike fetus over the newborn babe who has fallen into the material world of poverty and sickness.
One sees, then, why the fetus and the flag are one; the baby is not alone and may drain the pious taxpayer, but the fetus can wave over the land of the free. Like the American Religionists, it will remain solitary and godlike, poised always before the Creation.
The admirable spiritual consistency of what might be called Republican Gnosticism is quite undeniable. Warlike patriotism, opposition to abortion and refusal to seek economic and social justice unite a curious coalition of supposed theological enemies: Mormons, Southern Baptist fundamentalists, Seventh-Day Adventists, Assemblies of God Pentecostals, assorted other evangelicals. Their surface doctrinal disputes mask their more profound affinities, which the leaders of the Reagan-Bush Republican party have been able to sense and to harvest. Even if the American Religionists constitute a distinct minority, their fierce devotion to their principles gives them a political and economic influence very nearly dominant in Republican councils.
A new religion has been slowly replacing European Christianity in the United States since the country's founding. Sometimes it has manifested itself in fresh and ecstatic revelations, as with the Mormons and the Adventists. Joseph Smith of the Mormons and Ellen Harmon White of the Adventists both had a capacity for continuous influxes of divine knowledge. In other instances, the American Religion has adopted older Protestant identities, like the Baptists, but replaced those faiths with an apparent creedlessness that conceals archaic shamanisms, together with 17th and 18th century enthusiastic revivals of Gnostic heresies prevalent in the early Christian period.
What ought to be called the American Religion is now starting to cohere. Though it mostly calls itself by the name of one Protestantism or another, this American Religion is post-Protestant, indeed post-Christian. It has three principal characteristics. What is best and oldest in each of us is already part of God and so is no part of the Creation. Spiritual freedom depends on being alone with God and so demands a preference for solitude over society. Finally, God loves each of us on a personal and individual basis.
There is immense spiritual strength in these marks of the American Religion, but they combine pragmatically to remove social compassion from the national soul. The Buffalo Rescuers are another particle of the spirit manifested by President Bush and Oliver North. When they addressed the Southern Baptist Convention in June, Mr. North waved the flag and the fetus and the President wept and prayed as he stood in front of his constituents.
The American Revolution brought about a wholly secular authority, but our Revolution preceded the long, slow evolution of the American Religion. President Bush and the Reagan-Bush Supreme Court will keep faith with the American Religion, and more even than a woman's right to abortion will vanish from among us.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; OPERATION RESCUE

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; OPERATION RESCUE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (93%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (88%); CREATIONISM (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JUDGES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); 

PERSON: BLOOM, HAROLD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



847 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2260 words

HEADLINE: Book Publishing Kidnapped by Weird Aliens

BYLINE: By Stefan Kanfer; Stefan Kanfer writes on cultural topics for The New Leader and for Time.

 BODY:
WORDS that end in "oid" used to be honorable: trapezoid, asteroid, tabloid. Lately, however, words that end in "oid" have become synonyms for the meretricious: sleazoid, Marxoid, tabloid.
How did this turnabout come about? The tale is melancholy but brief: once upon a newsstand, the short fat dailies showed spontaneity and a rude wit. When a New York couple with two children had unexpected triplets, for example, The Daily News furnished my favorite headline: "THREE OF A KIND GIVE PAIR FULL HOUSE." Then came the checkout counter newspapers, like The National Enquirer and The Star. They are redefining the tabloid. Gone is the raffish charm; in its place has come an invasion of privacy swaggering in the trench coat of the First Amendment. 
 Politicians used to smirk as they read about the peccadillos of philandering actors or the substance abuses of rock stars. No longer. Their smiles dissolved when flashbulbs winked toward the statehouses and the District of Columbia. Gary Hart got frozen in the light; then it was the turn of Clarence Thomas, then Ted Kennedy, then Bill Clinton. His wife, Hillary, pleads for a "privacy zone" to be imposed on Presidential candidates, but that is the stuff of utopia. Back here on earth, politicians have about the same chance for isolation as Mike Tyson did. There are no such words as reticence, taste or decency in the tabloid lexicon. Other words are allowed, however: serial buttock fondling, for example, and the ever-popular "Bizarre Medical Shocker!" over such inscriptions as "TWO HEADED BRAZILIAN HAS CONVERSATIONS WITH SELF!"
Other words have equal appeal in this season's most fashionable shade, Journalism Yellow. Memoirs, especially of child abuse, are high on the list. So are drive-by shootings and outlandish banner headlines: "CHEATING WIFE'S HEAD EXPLODES!" "JOGGING CAN MAKE YOU GAY!" "WE WERE KIDNAPPED BY MARTIANS!" (None of these are invented; I saw them all on recent display. Check your local supermarket for this week's equivalents.)
WHEREVER tabloid print goes, tabloid television immediately follows, just as the thread obediently trails the needle. There they are every day, Donahue, Geraldo, Oprah, Maury Povich, Sally Jessy Raphael, answering America's desperate need to know about daisy-chain adultery, incest and bestiality -- areas of knowledge formerly limited to Krafft-Ebing and Army drill sergeants.
Fair enough; in the low-rent medium of yahoo TV, the tabloid style is seeking its own level. Alas, that is only the beginning. For the trickle-down phenomenon only works in the enchanted land of Reaganomics. In the real world, trickle-up is the thing. The tabloid sensibility is now rising from the gutter and soaking into the nation's publishing houses and bookstores.
"We're squandering our heritage in book publishing," says Sam Vaughan, an editor at large at Random House, who has worked with such disparate authors as Dwight D. Eisenhower, Fannie Flagg, William F. Buckley Jr. and Arthur Hailey. He attributes hard-core tabloidism to "the ascendancy of the paperback mind and money. Paperback publishers used to be considered people who sat below the salt. Today they have taken over much of the business. Their training and orientation comes out of magazine and newspaper distribution, and they think like people looking for an attention grabber and a quick fix. They might hesitate to publish a young Cheever or Bellow, but they won't wait a second to publish scandalmongering about a celebrity."
Al Silverman, senior vice president and publisher of Viking, says, "I take my solace from the the best of the best-seller list. Year after year, amid all the schlock books, it shows that the American taste for good literature endures. Still, there is no doubt about the recent trending-down in hard-cover publishing, partly because of economics, but mostly because television is such a strong and pervasive influence on popular culture."
To underline these insights, I take as my first text Nancy Friday's new opus, "Women on Top," subtitled "How Real Life Has Changed Women's Sexual Fantasies." Will you all turn to page 96? Here is Elaine, informing us that one of her cherished themes is coupling with animals: "I imagine I'm in an exhibition arena for scientific experiments and am told to entice the male gorilla . . . so a movie can be made to document it."
Later on we are introduced to Tara, Dawn and Deirdre. Tara's daydreams feature two types of dildos used simultaneously. Dawn prefers chains; Ruth would rather tie up her date with stockings. And Deirdre. . . . In a long introduction Ms. Friday confesses, "This is not a scientific report," which is like describing the Gobi Desert as not a humid locale. But this is a tabloid report, booming its absurd come-on ("Here is a collective imagination that could not have existed 20 years ago"), promising you plums and giving you pits.
Ms. Friday is proud of her lack of credentials: "I am by choice not a Ph.D., having decided long ago to retain the writer's freedom." Sam Keen, on the other hand, ostentatiously lists his Th.M. from the Harvard Divinity School and his doctorate from Princeton. Yet the author of "Fire in the Belly: On Being a Man" has much in common with the Friday approach. He also disavows any connection with controlled research. Most of the heat in "Fire," he says, derives from two principal sources.
The first is "my half-century-long study of the life of one man -- myself." And the second? A group of some dozen men who meet every Wednesday. "Over the years this group, which called itself simply The Men, or sometimes Sperm (Society for the Protection and Encouragement of Righteous Manhood) has challenged, loved, appreciated, changed, and taught me more about the common agonies and aspirations of men than any book or 'scientific' study."
Note those derisive quotation marks around "scientific." Books ought to applaud, in Thomas Henry Huxley's words, "the great tragedy of Science -- the slaying of a beautiful hypothesis by an ugly fact." But in today's tabloid literature, anti-intellectualism is in the saddle and rides the chain stores. The emotive is fashionable, facts are in limbo, and rigorous thought has been banished to the lab.
"Homecoming," one of many efforts by John Bradshaw, the television champion of "Your Inner Child," also employs the tabloid style. First comes the lurid admission: "In my early teens I ran with other fatherless guys. We drank and whored to prove our manhood." This is followed by muzzy, feel-good therapy, in easy-to-take acronym form:
 
Wonder
Optimism
Naivete
Dependence
Emotions
Resilience
Free Play
Uniqueness
Love
There: that didn't hurt a bit, did it? Feel better now?
This fortune-cookie approach is not confined to such trivial matters as sex and self-esteem. The office is tabloid heaven. Take "The One Minute Manager Builds High Performing Teams." This one is all about delegating authority. In the past, a single author might have written a 300-page study. Today it takes three people, Kenneth Blanchard, Donald Carew and Eunice Parisi-Carew, to produce a 118-page manual. It is obviously aimed at the kind of executives who move their lips when they look at bumper stickers.
Entire pages are devoted to slogans like the following:
 
 NONE OF US
 IS AS SMART
 AS ALL OF US
 
or
 
 THE WORDS
 "MANAGER"
 AND
 "EDUCATOR"
 ARE SYNONYMOUS
The text is not quite as complex as Dick and Jane. At the end of the book, Maria, a female boss, is asked about her newly trained subordinates.
" 'Did they help with your diagnosis, too?' asked Dan.
" 'They sure did,' answered Maria. 'And it was fun too.' "
Kind of makes you think, doesn't it, about whether the Japanese might be on to something with their incessant snipes at American management.
THESE volumes represent the benign side of tabloidism. Violence is its dark part: child molestation, Satan worship, gang wars. The more hideous the crime, the more likely it is to receive a dust-jacketed account. The case of Thomas List, once merely a nondescript banker, is a classic example. In 1971 he murdered his mother, his wife and their three children, then vanished into a new identity. "America's Most Wanted" told the story and showed his picture on television. Whereupon he was found, fingered, arrested, tried and convicted. Predictably, Mr. List became the lodestar of the tabloids -- paper, electronic and clothbound. Today he is the centerpiece of "Righteous Carnage" (published by Scribners, once the house of Hemingway and Fitzgerald). This, too, is a team effort; the authors are Timothy B. Benford, a journalist, and James P. Johnson, a professor of history at Brooklyn College. Attempts are made to plumb the past of a deranged man, but essentially this is the old razzle-dazzle, with violence crammed into short, punchy sentences:
"Helen List sat in the kitchen drinking a cup of coffee. She was still in her nightgown and slippers.
"John came up behind her and put a 9-millimeter German-made Steyr automatic pistol to the side of her head and fired once.
"She died instantly. The bullet smashed into the opposite wall. Warm blood formed a pool on the tabletop around her head and began to drip onto her slippers.
"The righteous carnage had begun."
In 1988, a student at North Carolina State University, absorbed in drugs, sex and the role-playing game of Dungeons and Dragons, conspired with two other students to kill one of his parents. In telling what happened, "Blood Games" makes another three-point landing: newspaper, TV, hard-cover. The author, Jerry Bledsoe, a reporter on The Greensboro (N.C.) News & Record, lovingly records every detail and savors each paradox: "They left for home a little before nine. 'The Deliberate Stranger,' a two-part TV movie about Ted Bundy, the serial killer, was beginning that night and she wanted to see it. . . .
"Two blows caught her, then another, sending her reeling from the bed onto the floor. As she lay there she heard her husband taking more blows, these different, lighter and followed by sucking, gushing sounds. No longer did he scream."
In anatomizing the same murder, Joe McGinniss out-tabloided Mr. Bledsoe. In "Cruel Doubt" he omits no ghastly detail. But dialogue is what defines his style. Here is the murderer in deep self-analysis: "I think I wanted to kill them because if they were dead, I couldn't disappoint them anymore."
If ever a line was born for the racks at the cash register, that is it.
IN the current climate these family crimes, and even the deeds of Ted Bundy, have come to seem tame. The public appetite has been whetted for newer and greater atrocities. The tabloids' current favorite is Jeffrey Dahmer, accused of cannibalism as well as more than a dozen torture-murders. At least five publishers are known to be interested in his biography.
Still, the real summa of tabloid sensibility is not found on earth but in the supernovas. Horoscopes, signs of the zodiac, predictions by Jeane Dixon -- these are the vital signs of shlock. The coffeetable "Illustrated Guide of Astrology" lifts pseudoscience from the comic pages and onto the shelves. Its subject, says the text, was "vilified and traduced by the sophists of every age, but vindicated and evidenced by Nature herself." The vindication includes facing pictures of two believers: Ronald Reagan and Adolf Hitler. The former President's commitment to the constellations is well known. As for der Fuhrer, the book recalls that he had horoscopes cast for himself and the Third Reich in 1945, a few months before the German surrender. They suggested that victory could be snatched from the jaws of defeat, as it had been for Frederick the Great in the Seven Years' War. What went wrong? With tabloidic logic the book explains, "It seems that his astrologers had given him false data in order to save their own lives."
Amid all this evidence of deterioration a few optimists remain. One of them is Michael Korda, the editor in chief of Simon & Schuster's trade book division. Mr. Korda maintains: "Every generation laments that the one following it is going to hell. For all the hysteria about lapsed standards, what's happening is only a new frankness in society in matters of sex and behavior. I applaud it. Besides, book publishers didn't invent the present culture. All we're really doing is reflecting it. And that's all we're obliged to do."
To which Sam Vaughan adds: "Look, despite the shabby products we see in the display windows, serious publishing goes on as it always did. There's not enough of it, but it's far from dead. Tabloids can only offer sensation. Books of quality can offer something else: dimension, thought, wisdom. You don't see anything on TV called 'Wisdom Tonight' or 'The Insight Show.' And you never will."
He may be right. After all, the national appetite for pap and spice can't go on forever, just as nobody can survive on an exclusive diet of Reese's Pieces and jalapeno peppers. Soon or late (probably at 11:59 P.M., well after prime time) the public will come to its senses. Until it does, we can at least ask that tabloid books follow the rule of some of the better television stations. On television, commercials for fortunetellers and other hustlers are accompanied by the subtitle, "For Entertainment Purposes." This warning, stamped across certain dust jackets, might provide protection for the innocent. Who knows? It might even drive them to look for literature that can't be acquired in the "8 Items or Less" lane.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TWO HEADED MONSTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (88%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); PUBLISHING (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); LITERATURE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); BOOKSTORES (50%); SHOOTINGS (50%); 

PERSON: KANFER, STEFAN CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); BILL CLINTON (56%); TED KENNEDY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



848 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Military Likely To Escape Cuts In 1993 Budget

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
Democrats in Congress have backed away from their earlier plans to seek sharp reductions in the military budget next year, making it likely that the final figures will closely resemble those proposed by President Bush.
Lawmakers and senior Defense Department officials still expect sharp bickering over specific programs in the military budget for next year. But the momentum for deeper cuts, which had built with the collapse of the Soviet Union, dissipated in the last several weeks, overwhelmed by lawmakers' fears of job losses in the defense industry and divisions among Democrats over how to spend any savings. 
 "The Administration has won the day by saying we can't draw down quicker without dumping a lot of people onto an otherwise weak economy," said Paul E. Taibl, research director for the Defense Budget Project, a nonpartisan research organization here.
 
No Brawl This Year
 In January, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney proposed a $281 billion military budget for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, $10 billion lower than this year. As lawmakers clamored for deeper reductions and an end to restrictions in the 1990 budget agreement that blocked the transfer of military savings to domestic programs, all sides expected a no-holds-barred brawl between the Bush Administration and Democrats in Congress.
In the intervening months, the Senate has embraced the Administration's budget numbers outright, and though the House wants to cut $5 billion in spending next year, the two sides will probably settle at about $2 billion in additional cuts next year, Representative John P. Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat who heads the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, said in an interview.
Indeed, as if to say this year's fighting over budget levels is virtually over, Congress and Pentagon officials are already casting glances to the 1994 fiscal year, when the restrictions of the 1990 budget agreement come down, a new round of base closings is ordered and Washington has had another year to assess potential military threats of the world after the cold war.
"We are likely to find this whole debate over the size and scope of our military requirements probably more intense than at any time it's been in the last couple of years," said Mr. Cheney in a speech earlier this month to a Navy association.
 
A Quick Cooling
 Why did this year's white-hot words chill so fast? For one thing, there was the tension between cuts spread over five or six years and reductions in next year's budget that would cause more immediate pain.
Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee, does not support deeper cuts in the 1993 fiscal year, but his call to reduce spending by $30 billion to $35 billion more than Mr. Bush through 1997 is close to the $41 billion in additional cuts sought by Representative Les Aspin, the Wisconsin Democrat who heads the House Armed Services Committee.
Mr. Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, emphasized the dange of deeper cuts in a carefully calculated public-relations campaign that went so far as to warn Congress that bigger budget reductions in 1993 could cripple training and force the military to cut 300,000 additional troops, even though Pentagon officials said privately that neither consequence was likely to happen.
Cracks in support for deeper cuts next year among liberal and moderate Democrats began appearing last fall. Several Democrats in Southern California who had opposed the B-2 bomber suddenly were writing letters to Mr. Aspin stressing the bomber's importance to national security.
The B-2 is assembled by the Northrop Corporation in Palmdale, outside Los Angeles.
The Air Force is likely to win approval for five more B-2 bombers. It has persuaded Mr. Aspin and other Democrats that 20 B-2's will cost only $2.6 billion more than the 15 that Congress has already paid for, senior members of the House Armed Services Committee staff said. Mr. Aspin and his colleagues are likely to insist on radar-evading performance guarantees before buying the extra planes, aides said.
 
No Agreement on Savings
 The jobs issue rang even louder after the Pentagon announced in January that it was halting production of the Seawolf attack submarine after one was built. With the Electric Boat Division of the General Dynamics Corporation in Groton, Conn., the Seawolf's manufacturer, contending that thousands of jobs were jeopardized, Connecticut and Rhode Island lawmakers mounted an effort to save the submarine, which was designed to hunt advanced Soviet submarines.
The House subcommittee that controls military spending recently restored $2 billion to next year's budget for a second Seawolf submarine, and the program supporters now say that they believe they may even win financing for a third.
On a broader front of what to do if the 1990 budget agreement restrictions fell, Democrats failed to reach agreement about whether to apply savings from the military to domestic programs or deficit reduction.
Sean O'Keefe, the Pentagon's comptroller and a former staff director for a Senate defense subcommittee, said in an interview that the turning point came March 31, when the House rejected, by a surprisingly wide vote of 238 to 187, a proposal to end the constraints of the budget agreement and allow military savings to be transferred.
The Senate had rejected a similar measure five days earlier, but the crushing defeat in the House, which is generally less supportive of military spending, sealed the Administration's victory. On April 9, the Senate rejected by a vote of 50 to 45 a plan by Senator Jim Exon, Democrat of Nebraska, to go beyond Mr. Bush's military spending reductions in the 1993 fiscal year, and the fight was over.
Congressional and Pentagon officials say that skirmishes over other specific programs, while spirited, are likely to pale in comparison to more sweeping debates next year over the size and spending levels for the military in the future.
"Next year is a new roll of the dice," said Mr. Aspin. "This question will be influenced by factors we haven't even thought of yet."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (57%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (62%); HOUSE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (62%); HOUSE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (57%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY BASES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (79%); JOHN P MURTHA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



849 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2294 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Candidate's Record;
Perot Goes Heavy on Drama, and Light on Details

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
Leon Sullivan, a Philadelphia minister who in the past two decades has been one of America's leading advocates for change in South Africa, recalls a conversation he had in the mid-1980's with Ross Perot, the Dallas billionaire who is considering a candidacy for President.
In their discussion Mr. Sullivan remarked that he doubted any significant improvement would occur in South Africa until Nelson Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, got out of prison. "If Mandela being in jail is the problem, let's find a way to get him out," Mr. Sullivan remembers Mr. Perot saying. 
 "It was vintage Perot," Mr. Sullivan said last week in a telephone interview from Philadelphia. "If there's a problem, find a way to solve it. You don't need committees and commissions."
To some who have been drawn into Mr. Perot's orbit and emerged as either backers or bashers, the incident is illustrative of another aspect of his approach to problems: his suggestion was devoid of details on how to achieve the end, and there appeared to be little follow through. When Mr. Mandela's release came -- in 1989 -- it had nothing to do Mr. Perot.
John Cole, president of the Texas Federation of Teachers, who worked with Mr. Perot on overhauling the state's school system, said, "My perception is that his style is to move into something like a whirlwind, to do something that's high profile, and then, bang, dust his hands and on to the next subject."
As a highly successful businessman who periodically injects himself into the public policy arena, Mr. Perot has earned a reputation as a no-nonsense problem solver. It is an image that Mr. Perot projects as he ponders whether to enter the Presidential race.
 
Clues From the Past
 "If the people don't want action, if they don't want these problems solved, if they don't want aggressive programs to get rid of the violence in the communities, to rebuild the cities, to get this country back on track, to stop the deterioration of the job base and the tax base, they don't want me," Mr. Perot said recently in a televised interview with David Frost. "This will take action, action, action."
So far, Mr. Perot, who built his fortune in the computer industry, has been reticent about spelling out how he would tackle problems like crime, drug use, poor performance of students or the Federal budget deficit.
But hints of how Mr. Perot would approach complex issues do emerge from an examination of the times when he has left the business world and moved like a Texas twister into the public policy arena. Whether it is revamping the Texas schools, fighting drug abuse or aiding American prisoners of war held in North Vietnam, Mr. Perot has displayed a penchant for direct action and for working outside conventional rules, as well as a flair for the dramatic that guarantees publicity.
He has also shown strong evidence of bipartisanship. In 1979 William P. Clements Jr., the Republican Governor of Texas, appointed him to head a study group on drug abuse. Five years later he was chosen by Gov. Mark White, a Democrat, to head a panel to study the state's educational system.
In 1985 when officials from the Reagan Administration asked him to try to secure the release of of William Buckley, the Beirut station chief for the Central Intelligence Agency who had been kidnapped, Mr. Perot turned to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who the year before had run for the Democratic Presidential nomination.
"Somebody asked, 'Who had a track record of getting somebody out of Beirut?' and Jackson was the only one who had," Mr. Perot said.
 
Opening Checkbook
 Mr. Perot paid for a trip to Beirut by Mr. Jackson, who in 1984 had gained the release from Syria of Robert Goodman, a Navy pilot shot down over Lebanon. But the civil rights leader was unable to gain Mr. Buckley's freedom. But in a recent interview, Mr. Perot said Mr. Jackson was the one to learn that Mr. Buckley had died while in captivity.
As one of the country's richest men, worth between $2.5 billion and $3.5 billion, Mr. Perot has also not been shy about opening his checkbook to deal with problems. In 1970, he offered to buy the release of American captives from the North Vietnamese, saying he could raise $100 million. In 1986 he agreed to a request from Lieut. Col. Oliver L. North, the former National Security Council aide, to pay a $1 million ransom for American hostages held in Lebanon.
In both cases, no ransom is known to have been paid and none of the captives were released.
Over the years Mr. Perot has also attracted people who share his leanings towards swashbuckling action. But at times this attraction has led him into embarrassing situations.
In 1979, he provided security guards to protect Creig Matthews and his wife, Kim Wozencraft, two undercover narcotics officers from Tyler, Tex. The two had convinced Mr. Perot and law enforcement authorities that their lives were in danger for having arrested 121 drug figures in East Texas.
It later turned out the Ms. Wozencraft and Mr. Matthews had themselves become users of some of the drugs they had bought as undercover agents. They had also faked evidence and committed perjury. Their exploits were later turned into a novel, "Rush" (Random House, 1990), written by Ms. Wozencraft, and a movie.
 
Bored With Conventions
 Some people who have worked with Mr. Perot on government panels say he is one who quickly gets bored with the conventions and compromises that characterize most government work, a trait that could be attractive to an electorate grown sour on Washington.
"One of the unique attributes of the man is that he has a very clear idea of what he wishes to do and how he wishes to do it," said Leo Cherne, the former vice chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, a private body that advises the Federal Government on intelligence matters. Mr. Perot quit the board in frustration in 1985. "He is not necessarily easily accommodating of the views of others," Mr. Cherne said.
Unlike his achievement in building Electronic Data Systems into the most successful computer services company in the world, it is unclear whether Mr. Perot's sorties into government policy have had lasting effect.
For example, in 1984, as the head of a special state body appointed by the governor, he pushed through the Texas Legislature a package of changes for the state's schools that included a tax increase, higher pay and a competency test for teachers, a limit on class sizes and a prohibition on students' participating in extracurricular activities if they fail subjects.
While the changes were praised at the time, Mr. Perot acknowledges that they have since been watered down. The teacher competency examination only tested whether teachers could achieve the literacy level of an 11th grader. Tough economic times forced the state to cut the level of financing that the changes had promised. Three years after the package passed, its major component -- the change of the state board of education from an elected to an appointed body -- was reversed by voters.
Officials at the Educational Testing Service, which administers a standardized math exam, said they lacked the data to determine whether Texas pupils had improved as a result of Mr. Perot's efforts.
Similarly, in 1979 when Mr. Perot was named chairman of the Texas Special Task Force on Drug Abuse, he developed laws, enacted by the Legislature, that stiffened penalties to those convicted of selling drugs to minors, made it easier for the police to seize the property of those accused of trafficking in narcotics, and prohibited the sale and possession of drug paraphernalia.
 
Program Is Assailed
 Drug arrests in the state totaled 61,742 last year, as against 47,879 in 1979. And critics say the crackdown has not worked. "It certainly was not a successful program," said Ted Lyon, A Democratic State Senator representing Dallas and parts of East Texas. "That's not to blame Ross Perot. The focus was on passing tougher laws, and not on building more prisons. It was a short-sighted way of dealing with the problem."
Mr. Perot burst onto the national scene in 1969 when he paid to send 150 relatives of American prisoners to Paris, where they protested Hanoi's failure to adhere to the Geneva Convention on the treatment of prisoners of war. At the same time, Mr. Perot chartered two Boeing 707's, filled them with food, mail from loved ones, medicine and clothing and tried to deliver the packages to prisoners in North Vietnam.
Mr. Perot's efforts on behalf of the prisoners, and later for servicemen missing in action, helped feed a movement that was encouraged by President Richard M. Nixon as a political counterweight to anti-war sentiments. The M.I.A. effort developed into a major cause, whose advocates saw the Government as at least unresponsive, or at worst part of a conspiracy to hide the truth about missing servicemen.
Mr. Perot says he undertook his mission at the behest of President Nixon and Henry Kissinger, who at the time was national security adviser. Through a spokesman Mr. Nixon said last week, however, that he has "no recollection" of asking Mr. Perot to take on this task. Mr. Kissinger declined to comment.
"I would not say we formally asked him to do it as such," said Alexander M. Haig, who was Mr. Kissinger's deputy at the time, and served as the liaison between the White House and Mr. Perot. "But we endorsed the concept."
Mr. Haig added: "There were a number of things that Ross conceived of, including ransoming the prisoners with his own capital. I think the fellow put his money where his mouth was and I have nothing but the highest admiration for him."
 
U.S. Award for His Work
 Mr. Perot insists his efforts resulted in improved treatment for American prisoners of war, and to bolster his point he provided a copy of a 1974 proclamation, signed by Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger, awarding him the Defense Department's Medal for Distinguished Public Service for his work on behalf of prisoners of war.
Still, apparent contradictions have swirled around Mr. Perot's efforts. In 1981, when it was disclosed that Mr. Perot declined two years earlier to finance a private commando mission to Southeast Asia to search for missing Americans, a spokesman for the Texas businessman said Mr. Perot did not believe there were any Americans being held in Indochina. "We went through this issue in the 1970's and were satisfied in our minds that there were no more Americans over there," William E. Wright 3d, a spokesman for Electronic Data Systems, said at the time.
Yet, in 1987 after President Ronald Reagan appointed a special envoy to negotiate with the Vietnamese for information on missing Americans, Mr. Perot undertook what he termed a "private" mission to Hanoi to talk about missing Americans. "I still believe we left men behind," Mr. Perot said then, adding that his trip had the "tacit approval" of the White House.
Asked about the apparent about-face, Mr. Perot said he was unaware of his spokesman's comments in 1981. "I have never, ever taken the position that we didn't leave anybody in Laos," Mr. Perot said.
In 1988, Mr. Perot once again inserted himself into a bitter debate, one involving blacks in Dallas and the city's police officers.
Early that year, three Dallas officers were killed while on duty. Many officers attributed the shootings to an environment that engendered a lack of respect for the police. Included in that environment, some officers said, were efforts by some black officials to strengthen the powers of a civilian review board, which would investigate accusations of police misconduct.
With police morale plummeting, his aides said, Mr. Perot met with hundreds of police officers. Monica Smith, the president of the Dallas Police Association, said the officers voiced complaints over departmental procedures, as well as the review board proposal. She said most officers expressed a desire for a collective bargaining agreement with the city.
Ms. Smith said Mr. Perot said he did not believe the police association had generated sufficient public support for such an agreement. He suggested the association instead concentrate on increasing the number of police officers and fighting the proposal for a more powerful civilian review board.
The police association responded with a petition drive that would have forced a referendum on the review board. Fearful that the drive would succeed, and that elimination of the review board would heighten racial tensions, the City Council approved a plan, drafted by Mr. Perot's lawyer, for a review panel with limited powers.
 
Criticism on Remarks
 But Mr. Perot was criticized when news reports attributed remarks to him at the meetings with police officers. Laura Miller, at the time a columnist with The Dallas Times Herald, said Mr. Perot suggested one way to deal with the drug problem in South Dallas, a predominantly black section of town, was to cordon off neighborhoods and conduct house-to-house searches for drugs and weapons.
In a speech this month, Mr. Perot denied making that comment and attacked Ms. Miller's credibility.
But Peter Elkind, who, like Ms. Miller, now works for The Dallas Observer, said that in 1988 he asked Mr. Perot about the statement. Mr. Elkind said Mr. Perot did not deny making the comment and defended house searches.
For his part, Mr. Perot said he did not recall Mr. Elkind's asking him about searches.
"He explicitly defended the need for radical action," Mr. Elkind said. "He didn't say, 'I didn't say that.' This guy believes in the straight-line solution to problems. Niceties like civil liberties and international law shouldn't get in the way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot's efforts on behalf of war prisoners, and later for servicemen missing in action in North Vietnam, helped feed a movement that was encouraged by President Richard M. Nixon as a political counterweight to anti-war sentiments. Mr. Perot, left, spoke through an interpreter with North Vietnamese prisoners of war held at a South Vietnamese P.O.W. camp in April 1970. (United Press International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); VIET NAM (64%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (57%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (57%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); VIET NAM (64%); TEXAS, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRISONS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); DRUG POLICY (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); BUDGETS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; PEROT, ROSS RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



850 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Chattanooga Journal;
4,000 Specimens in a 12-Story Bottle

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., April 24

 BODY:
Perhaps this southeastern Tennessee city is destined forever to be known best for the choo choo that tunefully chugs through Glenn Miller's 1941 recording.
But perhaps not. 
 Local civic leaders are betting that after next Friday Chattanooga will be world famous for something else: the world's largest freshwater aquarium.
The exhibit is stocked with 4,000 specimens. Further, it boasts a rocky stream that tumbles through a misty Appalachian mountain forest and a languid bayou swamp where alligators, water moccasins and crayfish hide among jutting cypress knees.
Friday is opening day for the aquarium, big as a city block, tall as a 12-story building and built at a cost of more than $55 million. Most of the construction money was donated by local businesses and residents eager not just to know Mother Nature better but also to give a booster shot to Chattanooga's downtown.
Most city aquariums feature mainly saltwater exhibits, but the one here focuses mostly on freshwater creatures and settings.
In planning the site, local officials and aquarium enthusiasts figured that it would be hard to raise the money for yet another saltwater aquarium filled with the usual collection of sharks, porpoises and whales and that such an exhibit would probably attract relatively few people.
They decided instead to build a freshwater aquarium that would feature exhibits from the Tennessee River, which rises in the Great Smoky Mountains to the northeast of Chattanooga, flows past the city and eventually dumps into the Ohio River, whose waters in turn flow into the Mississippi and on into the Gulf of Mexico.
"We wanted something that would be a whole new experience for people, something that would be a different learning experience and, at the same time, would help downtown Chattanooga," said William Flynn, the president of the aquarium.
"I've been working with aquariums in various cities for the better part of 35 years, and this is truly one-of-a-kind," he said. "In effect, you can follow a drop of rain from the point that it falls into the headwaters of the Tennessee until it flows out the mouth of the Mississippi and into Gulf of Mexico."
The Chattanooga aquarium, like those in Baltimore, New Orleans and most recently, Camden, N.J., has been deliberately situated to give a boost to a downtown area in need of rejuvenation.
It sits on the banks of the Tennessee, just north of the main business district, in a part of town that once bustled with factories and warehouses but more recently has been mostly abandoned.
Visitors to the Chattanooga aquarium, like visitors to most aquariums, will be able to view exhibits from above and below. They will see rainbow trout darting and tumbling about the foaming base of an Appalachian waterfall, 50-pound catfish nuzzling the muddy bottom of a 30-foot-deep river pool and alligators lying motionless on the banks of a Louisiana bayou.
From above, visitors will follow a mountain path that takes them along the banks of a swift stream, where computer-generated cloud mist hangs in the air, enveloping the visitors and nearby live maples and oaks that will lose their leaves in fall and regain them in spring, thanks, again, to a computer-controlled climate. Farther on, the path leads through the sweaty bayou, where turtles sleep on mossy logs and a brilliantly plumed wood duck keeps a wary eye on the gators.
Chattanooga officials boast that the aquarium, along with a $20 million airport terminal, an $18 million courts building, a $3 million performance center and another $32 million in highway and housing projects, all to be completed this year, make Chattanooga the latest Southern city to keep an eye on.
They say the city and surrounding metropolitan area, with a total population of more than 400,000, have managed to diversify economically over the past 20 years, luring more tourists to Lookout Mountain, Civil War battlefields and a Chattanooga Choo Choo park and replacing some heavy industries, especially major polluters, with a better balanced mix of white-collar offices and government agencies.
"Chattanooga is a city worth watching," said Mayor Gene Roberts, "and we back it with evidence."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The world's largest freshwater aquarium, stocked with 4,000 specimens, will open Friday in Chattanooga. Visitors previewed the Cove Forest area of the aquarium, which cost more than $55 million; The aquarium focuses mostly on freshwater creatures and settings, though there are several saltwater exhibits. Rob Mottice, a volunteer, fed broccoli to saltwater fish in the Gulf of Mexico tank. (Photographs by Billy Weeks/The Chattanooga Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

CITY: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHATTANOOGA (TENN) UNITED STATES (96%); TENNESSEE, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AQUARIUMS; NYTRAVEL; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE MARINE MAMMALS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); FISHES (89%); MOUNTAINS (76%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



851 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: 25,000 Join Central Park Rally To Back Ousted Haitian Leader

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the President of Haiti who was overthrown in a military coup last year, told more than 25,000 supporters at a rally in Central Park yesterday that he would return triumphantly to his Caribbean nation.
"That day I will bring; that day I will return," he said again and again to the crowd, largely composed of Haitian immigrants. 
 "After seven months, it's time to pass from statements to action," he said. "With you, we will celebrate that victory in Haiti because it will be your victory and our victory."
Father Aristide, a Catholic priest, was deposed in a military coup Sept. 30. Since then, backed by many foreign nations, he has worked from outside Haiti to restore his democratically elected government.
The Organization of American States brokered an agreement in February for Father Aristide's return. But the military-backed Haitian government has since rejected that accord and officials recently denounced foreign interference in the country.
Since the coup, the O.A.S. has maintained an economic embargo that has left Haiti with limited food and supplies.
Father Aristide, who was joined at the rally by Mayor David N. Dinkins, Harry Belafonte, the singer and human-rights advocate, and Jonathan Demme, the film director, was in New York to raise money and support. Father Aristide said he would meet in the next few days with business and government leaders in the United States. He was scheduled to meet today with Gov. Mario Cuomo.
Thousands of Haitian supporters carried signs and banners in support of the diminutive, soft-spoken leader. They cheered, chanted and waved flags with the blue-and-red Haitian colors.
Father Aristide called on the Bush Administration for support for his cause by invoking Haitian participation in the American Revolutionary War.
"Hundreds of Haitian soldiers joined in the American Independence War," he told the crowd. "Haitians played a primary role."
"Back then, Haitians and Americans fought together for democracy in the United States," he said. "Now they should fight together for Haiti."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters cheering at a rally for the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the ousted President of Haiti, on the Great Lawn in Central Park. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (91%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (91%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; NEW YORK CITY HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; EMBARGOES ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) COUPS (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (55%); FILM DIRECTORS (51%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BELAFONTE, HARRY ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); JONATHAN DEMME (55%); MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



852 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Wrapping Up Big Russian Aid Package

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
As Russia's top economic official met with them for the first time, finance ministers from the seven largest industrial nations today called on the Russian Government to continue moving boldly ahead with economic reforms.
A day before the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are expected to announce that they have voted to welcome Russia and the other former Soviet republics as members, the ministers pressed the Russian Deputy Prime Minister, Yegor T. Gaidar, for assurances that Moscow would not backtrack on economic reforms under a hostile Parliament's pressure. 
 Several ministers said they were worried that Russia might slacken its reforms in the face of strong efforts by legislators in Moscow this month to dilute President Boris N. Yeltsin's program to reduce inflation and stabilize the economy. The finance ministers voiced particular concern that Russia might not keep its budget deficit in check or do enough to tighten credit.
 
Helping Those Who Help Selves
 "Our message must be for self-help," said Germany's Finance Minister, Theo Waigel, before the meeting. "We want to signal to them that we want to help, but the major responsibility must be theirs."
On his arrival this weekend from Moscow, Mr. Gaidar, architect of Mr. Yeltsin's economic program, sought to assure the finance ministers that his nation deserved the multi-billion dollar aid package that the Group of Seven promised early this month.
"We are doing enough," he said. A 35-year-old academic with little management experience before his appointment last year, Mr. Gaidar has impressed foreign officials with his grasp of Russia's economic situation.
Today's Group of Seven meeting was the first gathering of the finance ministers from the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canada since President Bush and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany announced the broad outlines of a $24 billion Russian aid package on April 1.
The package is designed to soften the trauma of Russia's market-oriented reforms. Much of it includes aid already committed by the West, and some details remain to be resolved.
Continuing a yearlong campaign within the Group of Seven, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady used the meeting, which included central bank governors, as an occasion to press Germany, Japan and the other nations to do more to spur world growth.
With a weak economy hurting President Bush as he seeks re-election, Mr. Brady has said repeatedly that faster world growth is vital to transitions to market economies in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
A communique issued this evening said: "The ministers and governors welcomed the reforms already undertaken in Russia. They underscored that there is no productive alternative to establishing a market economy in Russia through the adoption of strong and comprehensive macroeconomic and structural reforms."
The ministers called on Russia to reduce its budget deficit, curb monetary growth, set up a legal framework for a market economy, and reform its farm and energy sectors to increase production and foreign exchange.
Mr. Brady said of Mr. Gaidar after the meeting, "he took those points and he believes he can deliver."
The communique said that "the ministers and governors remain concerned that aggregate G-7 economic activity this year would be below potential and growth would be inadequate to achieve a reduction in unemployment."
The ministers, without naming names, called upon Germany and the United States to lower their deficits. "This is important both for countries with long-lasting fiscal imbalances and for countries experiencing exceptional adjustment challenges," the communique said.
Exchange markets have been generally stable in recent months, the communique said.
But as for the Japanese yen, the ministers "noted that the decline of the yen since their last meeting was not contributing to the adjustment process." Bush Administration officials have said economic growth, which is already lagging, might be dragged down further by Japan's slowdown and by Europe's sluggishness.
In the days before the meeting, a quarrel of unusual bitterness erupted after American officials urged Bonn to do more to cut its budget deficit to make it easier for Germany's central bank to cut its high interest rates. German officials accused a senior Treasury official of making false comments and of meddling.
At previous Group of Seven meetings, American officials pressed Germany's central bank to lower interest rates. But at today's meeting, they focused their attention on Germany's growing deficit, which has created inflationary pressures.
Officials of industrial nations have recently voiced concern that for years to come Bonn might continue paying large subsidies to the east, keeping deficit and interest rates high.
Although American officials are eager to see Germany's short-term rates fall, they received little solace today. Helmut Schlesinger, president of Germany's central bank, said, "The Bundesbank has no room to cut rates."
Japan's plunging stock market and declining asset values were also subjects of concern at today's meeting. Referring to Japan, the communique said that in countries with large trade surpluses and declining growth "policymakers should be mindful of the possibilities of strengthening domestic demand." Last week, American officials urged Japan to raise Government spending, especially on infrastructure, such as roads, to stimulate its economy.
Although Japanese officials have criticized the Russian aid package, they indicated today that they would back it even though a territorial dispute with Russia remains unresolved.
Japan's Prime Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, is scheduled to meet this week with Chancellor Kohl and President Francois Mitterrand of France to ask for help in persuading Russia to give back a group of islands taken from Japan at the end of World War II.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the finance ministers' meeting yesterday in Washington were Alan Greenspan, far right, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, and, next to him, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TRENDS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GAIDAR, YEGOR (MIN) ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



853 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Assessment;
For Pennsylvania Voters, Abortion May Not Be a Decisive Issue

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 26

 BODY:
In Washington last week, supporters and foes of abortion rights did battle in the Supreme Court. In a case based on Pennsylvania's restrictive new abortion law, lawyers debated whether the basic Court doctrine establishing abortion as a fundamental right, enunciated in Roe v. Wade, should be affirmed, modified or thrown out.
In Harrisburg, Gov. Robert P. Casey, a conservative Democrat who backed the Pennsylvania law, to the ill-concealed discomfiture of most of his party's national leaders, launched a diatribe against them. By advocating "abortion on demand," he said, they had put the party on the wrong side of what he termed "the issue that will decide whether or not we can get the Reagan Democrats, who have so much trouble with our social values, to vote for a Democrat for President." 
 In the Pennsylvania Democratic senatorial primary, a long-shot candidate, Lynn H. Yeakel, has pulled even with her much-better-known opponent, Lieut. Gov. Mark S. Singel, in the latest statewide polls. Politicians here say she may well win the nomination to run against Senator Arlen Specter in the fall because Mr. Singel, formerly a foe of abortion, has moved to the center on the issue, backing abortion rights but supporting the restrictions in the Pennsylvania law, thereby alienating voters on both sides.
 
How Crucial an Issue?
 Pennsylvania, then, has become the crucible of abortion politics, right? Wrong, if you look at it from the viewpoint of the average voter.
G. Terry Madonna, director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville University in Lancaster, says that in his polls "abortion is not and has never been a salient issue in this state," despite all the hullabaloo in recent months on the subject.
"If Roe v. Wade is overturned completely, that would be a different story, here and nationwide," he said. "But in two straight polls, the last one this week, abortion makes hardly a blip when you ask open-ended questions about what matters most. Pennsylvanians put jobs first. The economy in general comes after that, then health care, then education."
It does not necessarily follow that people in this state think abortion is less important than those elsewhere do. A fair inference, many political analysts here think, is that the relatively conservative people of this state are relatively satisfied by the legal-but-restricted formula.
Leaving the merits of the case to one side, which is something that few people find easy to do, many professional politicians on the national level think the center of political gravity in the United States as a whole, if there is one, lies somewhere between unrestricted abortion and an outright prohibition of abortion or something very close to it.
Although his party and most of its candidates are strongly committed to abortion rights, Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic Party chairman, is one such; another is Robert M. Teeter, President Bush's campaign chairman, despite the President's own hard-line anti-abortion approach, which he has shown no sign of willingness to soften.
In questions to the lawyers last week, Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony M. Kennedy appeared to be searching for some middle ground.
The late Lee Atwater, the strategist who guided Mr. Bush to victory four years ago, tried in vain to persuade his boss that the Republican Party must not exclude voters who backed abortion rights. He had no more success than Mr. Casey, who argued in an interview last week that the Democrats were making the same mistake as the Republicans, in mirror image.
 
'Beltway Bunch'
 "Democrats in Washington thought it was a joke when Bush visited that flag factory in 1988," Mr. Casey said. "Blue-collar workers here -- and a lot of them are Vietnam vets -- didn't think it was funny at all. They and their families, most of them Democrats at heart, voted for Bush.
"Now they tell us in Washington that we've got to be pro-choice to win. Wrong again. A lot of our voters, and a lot like them in other states, will go for Bush again. The Beltway bunch has taken us off the cliff in four out of the last five Presidential elections, and they're doing it again."
Mr. Casey argues vigorously that opponents of broad abortion rights can win, here and elsewhere. He notes that he was re-elected in 1990 with the largest majority in a race for governor in the state's history. Mr. Singel argues the opposite. The record suggests that abortion has not been a decisive issue the way gun control, for example, has proved to be in Western states.
In recent years, the state has elected Republicans who backed abortion rights, such as Senator Spector, and Republicans on the other side, such as Ernest D. Preate Jr., the State Attorney General, who is expected to run for Governor in 1994. It has also elected Democrats with disparate views, like Mr. Casey and Senator Harris Wofford, an upset victor last year and a self-described moderate on the issue.
Politicians seek to build majorities. They dislike polarizing issues, especially those on which popular opinion seems fairly equally divided, because that creates electoral instability, to say nothing of endless court cases and ceaseless street demonstrations.
The problem for those who seek a third approach to abortion, hoping to find a position behind which most of the country could rally, is the one that confronted compromise-seekers on Vietnam in the late 1960's. The debate is driven by the absolutists on both sides, many of whom see the issues in terms of moral imperatives.
For that reason, it seems highly likely that the Republican platform this year will oppose abortion in almost all cases and the Democratic platform will advocate unfettered abortion rights. Whatever the mass of voters may think, the moment for pragmatism does not seem to be at hand -- unless of course, Ross Perot should decide to hitch his wagon to that star and invite the obloquy of those on both sides who disdain the middle ground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (60%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION ABORTION (96%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR BOB CASEY (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



854 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The U.S. Government has had evidence for more than two years that Iraq, in the months before it invaded Kuwait in August 1990, diverted food purchased under a $5 billion American aid program and exchanged it for money and arms in the Soviet bloc and in other countries. Iraq may have used some of the money, one high-level American official wrote in an Oct. 13, 1989, confidential document, to acquire "sensitive nuclear technologies." [Page A1.]
The seven largest industrial nations are trying to work out the final details of a multibillion-dollar Russian aid package, as Russia's top economic official joined the finance ministers from those countries for the first time. [A9.] 
 More than 50 experts bogged down in a debate over policies that would give the U.S. a leading role in bringing capitalism and democracy to the former Soviet Union. The stumbling block: American reluctance to risk money on the transition. [D1.]
The chairmanship of Porsche may be the hottest seat in corporate Germany. Since 1980, four men have tried to placate the company's quarrelsome family owners while keeping the world's last independent sports car maker on track despite a dwindling market and soaring prices. [D1.]
Trade ministers of several nations tried to rescue the faltering talks on streamlining the global trading system. But they came up with no new ideas for breaking the principal deadlock, on rules for trade in agriculture. [D2.]
 
The Economy
Orders for U.S.-made machine tools rose by 9.3 percent in March, ending the strongest first quarter in three years. [D1.]
The S.E.C. is planning several rule changes that would make it easier for companies to sell securities and for broker-dealers to comply with existing laws. [D1.]
The Museum of American Financial History will open tomorrow at its permanent home in lower Manhattan, where it will present a modest collection of artifacts and historical documents that try to tell the story of the nation's financial markets. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
Travel advertising is finally beginning to take off, to the relief of the magazine industry, as many Americans try to put the recession behind them and make plans to hit the road again. [D1.]
The Nation and The New Republic are fighting a war of words for readers as The Nation's circulation finally surpasses that of its prominent rival. [D9.]
Boston's PBS station has brought "Nova" to a shopping mall as it opens a store to raise money for its television projects. [D8.]
Tough times in the television industry are forcing big changes in the relationships between networks and studios. Bill Carter: Television. [D8.]
The Big Three networks are being pressed by media buyers to expand the period for buying advertising on prime time in advance of the television season. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]
 
Companies
Passenger telephone service on airplanes has been sold exclusively by Airfone Inc. since its inception nearly a decade ago. But that is about to change, possibly as early as next week. And the competition will come from no other than Airfone's founder, John D. Goeken. [D1.]
 
Today's Columns
Health maintenance organizations are thriving, riding a wave of national concern over medical costs. Market Place. [D6.]
These are heady days for the municipal bond insurance industry. So far this year, the six companies that do virtually all the business have backed more than $19 billion worth of tax-exempt issues, 32 percent of the $58.7 billion worth of municipal bonds that have been priced. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); HISTORY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); RECESSION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (71%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (65%); NETWORK TELEVISION (60%); RETAILERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



855 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Tool Orders Rose 9.3% Last Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
Orders for American-made machine tools rose by 9.3 percent in March, ending the strongest first quarter in three years, an industry trade group said today in its monthly report.
Machine tool orders totaled $236.3 million, compared with $216.2 million in February, said the group, the Association for Manufacturing Technology. The March orders were up by 15 percent from March 1991. 
 The March increase followed a 6.4 percent rise in February. In January, orders fell by 36.7 percent and shipments plummeted by 43.4 percent.
 
March Shipments Up 39.7%
 March shipments increased by 39.7 percent, to $280.7 million, from $201 million in February and were 1.4 percent above the March 1991 shipments, said the association, which is based in McLean, Va.
The association's statistics combine figures for two kinds of tools: metal cutting and metal forming. They are used in the production of a variety of goods, from refigerators and cookware to cars and aircraft.
Although a very small industry, the strength of tools orders generally reflects the strength of industrial production, and economists consider machine tool sales and shipments to be an important indicator of capital spending by manufacturers.
Orders for the year to date totaled $670 million, a 3 percent increase over the first three months of last year, although year-to-date shipments were 3 percent below last year, at $641.5 million.
 
'A Good Start'
 "We're off to a good start," said Albert W. Moore, the association's president. "First-quarter machine tool orders are the best since 1989. Domestic orders are up. If interest rates remain low and economic trends continue to improve, we could see higher machine-tool demand from manufacturers more confident about their future."
But Mr. Moore cautioned, "We're by no means out of the woods yet, since most international markets have begun to slow, particularly in Germany and Japan."
Orders for metal-cutting tools, including boring mills and lathes, gained by 10.9 percent in March, to $176.9 million, while those for metal-forming tools rose by 4.9 percent, to $59.4 million. Orders for metal-cutting tools were up by 15.2 percent and those for metal-forming tools were up by 14.5 percent.
But the March backlog for machine-tool orders, an indication of future activity, declined by 2.6 percent, to $1.47 billion from $1.51 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (77%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (77%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (92%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); TRENDS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



856 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Exercises;
Talks Resume Today, but Are Parties Ready to Do More Than Limber Up?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
When Arab and Israeli negotiators were last seen in Washington, in February, their spokesmen were spitting tacks at one another. The Arabs were threatening not to meet again until after the Israeli elections on June 23, and the Americans were wondering if Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d should make a quick visit to the Middle East to keep the talks going.
Somewhat to everyone's surprise, the parties will quietly resume their talks Monday at the State Department, and have agreed in principle that another round will be held in Rome, possibly before the Israeli elections. 
 What happened? Basically, the same thing that has kept the talks going since they started in Madrid last October: the willingness of all the parties to do the right thing for the wrong reasons, to keep talking even though no one has any apparent intention of compromising now.
 
The Secret
 It is hardly the ideal approach to peace talks, but although it has not produced any breakthroughs it has done wonders for preventing any breakdowns. The secret of these negotiations is that they have become the diplomatic equivalent of low-impact aerobics: just enough to work up a sweat and loosen up the muscles, but not enough to strain any of the key players.
Still, it is something of a mini-breakthrough that all the parties so easily agreed to hold their next round of talks in Rome. The agreement came after months of wrangling over venue during which the Arabs insisted they would never accede to Israel's demand to move the talks closer to the Middle East.
It suggests that the negotiations, which only a year ago seemed like a pipe dream, have now become so routine that the Arabs no longer feel they need the umbrella of Washington or Moscow to cover their attendance at talks with Israel.
 
The Political Calculations
 But if these talks have become a habit, it is primarily due to off-the-table political calculations by the parties, not something that was exchanged at the talks.
Jordan has already got what it needed most: forgiveness from the Bush Administration for having supported Iraq during the Persian Gulf war and a resumption of American aid. It is hoping for a similar parole soon from Saudi Arabia.
Syria, too, continues to win respectability by taking part in the talks, at no cost in terms of concessions to Israel. The Syrians have apparently calculated that participation in talks with an Israeli Government that appears interested only in the process without any positive outcome will create greater and greater friction between Washington and Israel.
For Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel, the key factor now is the Israeli election; his Likud Party is running well behind in the opinion polls.
"With the Israeli economy faltering, with immigration dwindling, and U.S.-Israel relations strained, Shamir needs some success to point to in the campaign," said Martin Indyk, director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy Studies. "He wants to be able to say, 'We got the Arabs to the table, we are making progress, but I have given up nothing.'
"This way Shamir can simultaneously appeal both to his core right-wing constituency, as well as to more moderate swing voters in the middle."
Israeli officials say that their negotiating team will probably bring to Washington a proposal for Palestinian elections either at the municipal level or for functional representative bodies like a health committee or an education committee to oversee certain aspects of self-rule.
Palestinians have already signaled that such proposals are not likely to interest them. To be limited to municipal elections, they argue, only reinforces the notion that they are a fractured community under occupation, with only local interests -- not a political community with its own identity.
The Palestinians at first balked at returning for this round because they feared doing so would help Mr. Shamir's re-election bid. But they were persuaded by the American argument that boycotting the talks is what would really help Mr. Shamir.
Nevertheless, there is great concern within the Bush Administration over the state of the Palestinian negotiating team, which is in constant disarray and seems incapable of making serious decisions. The Palestinian newspaper Al Fajr quoted the delegation leader, Haidar Abdel-Shafi, as telling a Palestinian audience recently: "The delegation must find a way to unite so its decisions can be respected. There is chaos."
 
U.S. Advice to Palestinians
 American officials have been privately telling the Palestinians that while they have a clear-cut objective -- total self-rule -- they have no strategy for getting there. There is no incrementalism in the Palestinian approach. The Israelis are just supposed to turn the keys over to them on a certain date, which, the Americans made clear, is simply not going to happen.
American officials recognize that the Palestinian delegation has no authority or legitimacy to engage in real give and take. Such authority could only come from three sources.
One is the blessing of Yasir Arafat and the Palestine Liberation Organization in Tunis. The Palestinian negotiators have already been relying indirectly on that, but this has not been sufficient. The problem is that the P.L.O. is in as much disarray as the West Bank negotiators, and if it were brought more directly into the negotiations it would drive the Israelis away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SYRIA (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SPAIN (79%); JORDAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SYRIA (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SPAIN (79%); JORDAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (54%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ELECTIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); DESERT STORM (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (59%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



857 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: As the Mall Thrives, Main Street Struggles to Survive

SERIES: Modern Mecca: Last of six visits to a regional shopping mall.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn.

 BODY:
From the mall here, it is difficult for a visitor to find the old Main Street. But it is here, over a rise and past a few lights.
And five years after the Danbury Fair Mall came to town with what some promised were new opportunities for this old city, one of every seven stores on Main Street is empty. 
 The mall did not kill downtown Danbury. But it did not save it either.
"It is like a lot of places where malls have come; it is struggling to maintain its identity," said Robert Steinberg, who runs the men's store that his father opened on Main Street in 1954.
Across the New York region, the mall has become the town square, and the effects of that change are felt most strongly on the old squares and along the old Main Streets, like the one in this city of 70,000.
At Cappiello's Jewelers on Main Street and at Markoff's Shoes and down at Feinson's on the corner of Main and White, merchants talk about how they have had to adapt over the years to changes that are almost a catalogue of the challenges that have faced small cities everywhere. Changing life styles, urban decay, crisscrossing highways, chain stores, suburban strip shopping centers and finally, malls, have taken people away from Main Street.
But there is an awe and, sometimes, a fear reserved for discussion of the mall that was built on the old fairgrounds here, as if it were an inevitable force that cannot be entirely understood.
"It's a fact of life," said Frank Cappiello Sr., who has been a jeweler on Main Street for 37 years. "It's there. You can't be an ostrich and put your head in the sand and pretend it's not there."
Mr. Cappiello and other merchants along Main Street said business was good for the first few years after the mall came. But then the recession hit, and they had to face the fact that Main Street was unlikely ever to see crowds of strolling shoppers again.
For the merchants who have survived, the strategy has been to re-invent themselves, stressing service, quality and specialized products that are not always available at the mall: fine jewelry, big-and-tall sizes, extra-wide shoes.
But even the most successful of them admit that they are unsure what will happen to Main Street. Periodically, there are reminders of Main Street's frailty, like the closing of Mack's Men's Store this winter, and Steinbach's, the last department store on Main Street, last summer.
"You have to wonder what the future is. Are we all going to be here in another 5 or 10 years?" said Robert S. Feinson, who runs the clothier his grandfather started in 1908 and who sometimes advertises his shop as "an alternative to the mall."
Mr. Cappiello, the jeweler, was sitting the other day in his graceful 4,000-square-foot store with its gleaming glass cabinets, talking about how Main Street has changed.
Mr. Cappiello, whose father was a hatter when that industry dominated Danbury, was one of those who fought the mall from the start. "I still think we were right," he said. "They should have put more emphasis on developing downtown Danbury."
This month Mr. Cappiello is to retire and leave the business to his 29-year-old son. But it will be a different business, he said. They are giving up the old big store, which has the feel of a country Tiffany's, and his son will move into a new 1,500-square-foot version, also downtown.
Down the street at Markoff's shoes, the owner, Salvatore P. Merlo, was also talking about Main Street in the age of the mall. "It will never be the primary shopping area again," he said.
 
Promises of Prosperity
 In Danbury, as in most places, proponents of the mall told opponents it would bring change. New shoppers and prosperity would come, they said.
The mall did bring jobs and tax revenue. But it also took the crowds and left the problems. And, for some, the mall has come to epitomize the effect of big business on small towns.
When the mall's developer, Wilmorite Inc. of Rochester, made its deal with the owners of the ideally located Great Danbury Fair, Wilmorite paid $170,000 an acre, the highest price ever paid for land in this area. From there, the stakes got higher.
There were some here who said they were saddened, but not surprised, when two of the highest executives of Wilmorite, a privately owned mall developer, were subpoenaed by prosecutors and testified that they had paid $60,000 in cash to Danbury's Mayor at the time, James E. Dyer. The executives said it was in response to a demand from the Mayor and to assure his support for the mall. Mr. Dyer lost a bid for re-election amid reports of a corruption inquiry in 1987. In court in 1990, the former Mayor's lawyer, Hugh F. Keefe, portrayed the mall developers as "the epitome, the personification of avarice and of greed" who would do anything to get their mall built. Mr. Dyer, who had always denied that he had done anything illegal, was acquitted. He won dismissal of a final charge last fall.
 
Behind the Scenes
 But on Main Street, people remember the glimpse behind the scenes at the mall that emerged during those bruising days.
On the witness stand at Mayor Dyer's trial, the Wilmorite executives described how they told local officials who were in positions to help their mall projects that Wilmorite would not be "fair-weather friends." They acknowledged that the Wilmot family had long nurtured high-level ties with national politicians and that several former local officials who had been helpful in other projects were later hired.
Mr. Friedrich described at the trial how he had met Mayor Dyer at a Westchester airport restaurant and brought $10,000 in $100 bills wrapped in a copy of The Wall Street Journal.
"Whenever I think of that episode in the history of Danbury," said Mary Ann Frede, in her store at Liberty and Main, "I think it's a sad commentary on life in general that people think that's the way you do business."
These days on Danbury's Main Street, people are busy trying to escape this downtown's troubled past. They are rebuilding the sidewalks and promoting revitalization projects that have a long history of failure here. Some people have high hopes for a physical rehabilitation center planned by Danbury Hospital and for a proposed railroad museum. Many say new restaurants and proposed housing complexes will prove that downtowns can be bustling places without the retail stores that have defined them for centuries.
Citycenter Danbury, a special tax district formed to revitalize the downtown, is raising money to hire the New York City public relations firm Howard J. Rubenstein Associates. In the words of Rubenstein's plan, which costs $15,000, the purpose would be to "create a stream of news" and "a positive attitude about Citycenter Danbury and its future." One proposed event would be a celebrity hat parade.
Even some of those who are most involved in the renewal efforts acknowledged that the task was enormous. Joseph Heyman, a builder who is chairman of Citycenter Danbury, said that decades of planning policies had left the downtown in the center of a "doughnut" of shopping centers along the area's highways. "It was almost a casebook example of how to choke a downtown," he said.
 
The Success of Sameness
 "We're losing the character of our urban centers," Mr. Heyman said, "because there is a sameness in these highway-oriented shopping centers."
Some on Main Street say that even the would-be revitalizers have been seduced by the success of that sameness.
At his Martin's men's shop, Mr. Steinberg said he was happy to see signs of progress on Main Street. But to survive with the mall in its backyard, he said, downtown will have to offer something different. "The people who are redeveloping downtown want that same homogenized product," Mr. Steinberg said.
His hopes for a Main Street that is "saucier" than the mall, he said, are partly based on business strategy.
And, Mr. Steinberg said, they also have to do with what happened not long ago when a childhood friend who had moved to Florida from Danbury returned to show his little boy his hometown.
It rained one day, Mr. Steinberg said, so the father took the boy to the mall. After a while at the Danbury mall, Mr. Steinberg said, "His little boy said to his father, 'Are we back in Florida?' "
He wasn't, of course. He was at the fair, the Danbury Fair Mall, the concrete box in the asphalt field that is a short drive and a long journey from the Main Street that his father remembered.
 
The Series So Far
The first article in this series about the Danbury Fair Mall appeared on March 27. It described the mall, in Danbury, Conn., as one of the region's new "town squares," a place that draws people not only to buy, but to stroll and to meet friends, a place where some succeed and others fail. The second article, on April 1, told of a woman who became a successful drapery saleswoman at the mall after her husband lost his job. The third article, on April 5, described the young people who have made the mall the center of their social life. The fourth article, on April 9, visited a niche retailer, one that sells only sunglasses. The fifth article, on April 21, described mall security.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Five years after the Danbury Fair Mall came to Danbury, Conn., one out of every seven stores on Main Street is empty. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DANBURY FAIR (SHOPPING MALL) WILMORITE INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANBURY FAIR (SHOPPING MALL)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DANBURY (CONN) UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SURVEYS AND SERIES RETAILERS (91%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (89%); JEWELRY (88%); MEN'S CLOTHING (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FINE JEWELRY (68%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



858 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Independent;
Wealthy Should Pay More To Trim Deficit, Perot Says

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 26

 BODY:
Ross Perot, the wealthy Texan who is contemplating an independent campaign for President, said today that rich Americans should carry a bigger burden than other people to help erase the Federal budget deficit.
Providing a few more details to his policy leanings, the businessman also suggested on the CBS News program "Face the Nation" that he would lower Federal spending on programs that benefit women, families and children. He also said he might endorse across-the-board cuts in all Government spending by means of "a real Gramm-Rudman that stops the deficit spending so you don't lose any more financial blood." 
 In what is plainly the overarching message of his potential candidacy, Mr. Perot again derided Congress and the Administration for inaction on the growing national debt and Federal budget deficit, and asserted that the budget gap must be pared while "good, solid" jobs are created to rebuild the nation's economy.
Many economists fear that cuts in Federal spending could damage the weak recovery that has taken shape in recent months. A few have even called for increased spending on public works to further bolster the fragile economy.
 
Wants 'Growing Tax Base'
 But in his remarks today Mr. Perot did not directly address questions about how he would revive the economy as he tried to curb spending.
He said the best solution to budget challenges was "a growing tax base," with more job holders providing more revenue. The only way for industry to expand, he said was "to make the finest products in the world. That's something I know a lot about."
Mr. Perot now heads Perot Systems Corporation, a computer-services company he organized in 1989 that competes directly with Electronic Data Systems, the giant computer-services firm he founded in 1962. The General Motors Corporation paid Mr. Perot $2 billion for his stake when it acquired the company in 1984.
 
More Taxes for Wealthy
 Mr. Perot said he spoke out against President Bush two years ago when the President proposed lowering upper-income tax rates. The son of a cotton broker and a homemaker from East Texas, Mr. Perot said he had lived "completely across the economic spectrum" and indicated he would favor higher taxes on the rich.
"When you have been as fortunate as I have been," he said, "you certainly can contribute more than people who are just trying to make ends meet. You bet."
Asked how much he would support current programs of concern to women, like day care and temporary leave from the workplace for parents, Mr. Perot said he favored "all of those things," but added: "We don't have any money right now."
He asserted that his paramount issue was economic recovery and expansion "so that we can do all of these wonderful things, not only for our people but for the world." He added: "When you're broke, you're just throwing sand in the air to talk about a lot of nice things you'd like to do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (66%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (66%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELL PEROT SYSTEMS CORP (66%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (64%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); INCOME TAX (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); COTTON MARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C; PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



859 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: 5% Rise in Reports of Violent Crime to Police

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
Reports of violent crime to the police increased 5 percent last year and reported property crimes rose 2 percent, according to preliminary figures released today by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The total reported crimes rose 3 percent, continuing a trend of increases dating back to 1985. The 5 percent increase in violent crime, which includes murder, rape, robbery and aggravated assault, is less than half the 10.6 percent increase reported from 1989 to 1990, but it is in line with increases since the mid-1980's. 
 The F.B.I. figures, called the Uniform Crime Report, includes only crimes reported to the police. Therefore, criminologists consider the report a less reliable indicator of crime than the Bureau of Justice Statistics' National Crime Survey, which is based on police reports and interviews with victims. That survey's preliminary figures, released last week, indicated that violent crimes rose by 7.9 percent while property crimes rose by 1.8 percent.
The F.B.I. did not calculate the rate of crime per capita. But using the F.B.I.'s broad percentage changes and on census data, The Associated Press calculated that there were about 5,880 crimes reported per 100,000 residents last year. That is the second-highest rate in the last three decades, surpassed only by 1980, when there were 5,899.9 crimes per 100,000 residents.
The violent crime rate was about 750 per 100,000 residents, the highest in the last three decades.
The F.B.I. figures for last year showed the number of homicides rose 7 percent, translating by A.P. calculations to 9.9 slayings per 100,000 people, second only to 1980's rate of 10.2.
The biggest average increase in murders, 22 percent, occurred in smaller cities of 50,000 to 99,000 people. But some cities with 300,000 people or more saw homicides leap by 50 percent or more, including Omaha, up 192 percent to 35 homicides.
At the same time, New York City had 91 fewer homicides last year than in 1990, when the deaths of 87 people in the Happy Land Social Club fire in the Bronx pushed the total to a record number. The drop reflected only a 4 percent decline because the totals were so large: 2,245 slayings in 1990 as against 2,154 last year, the most slayings in the nation. Earlier this year, the New York Police Department estimated a higher total for 1991 murders, between 2,180 and 2,225.
The F.B.I. report showed Los Angeles with the second highest total of homicides: 1,027 last year, up 5 percent from 983 in 1990.
Experts on crime attributed the increases to the illegal drug trade and the nation's economic troubles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (95%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (95%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS CRIME RATES (97%); VIOLENT CRIME (94%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); CRIME STATISTICS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CENSUS (74%); ROBBERY (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



860 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Re-election Campaign Opens Against Backdrop of Concern

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
As fund-raising events go, Mayor David N. Dinkins's Spring Gala at the Sheraton Hotel in Manhattan tonight will not seem very different from the routine rubber-chicken political dinner. Indeed, chicken morel under sun-dried tomatoes is the main course.
But the dinner is the first major event in Mr. Dinkins's bid for re-election, and it comes at a time when the Mayor is seemingly at a crossroads. 
 After three years of struggling with recession-driven budget deficits, he announced a surplus of $455 million last week. And, despite the predictable fork-fights over the extra piece of pie, City Hall has been able to add, not cut, money for municipal programs.
 
A Damaging Theft
 Even so, Mr. Dinkins enters the campaign season facing the task of reassuring his contributors. The former finance chairman of his re-election committee, Arnold I. Biegen, pleaded guilty in February to stealing $158,000 from the campaign treasury.
Another potential concern for the Mayor is keeping pace with Andrew J. Stein, the City Council President, who plans to run against him. Mr. Stein held a birthday party in January that featured entertainment by Frank Sinatra, Shirley MacLaine and Liza Minnelli and raised $1.7 million.
Unlike politicians, who typically get on the bandwagon of only one candidate, Miss Minnelli appears to be spreading her support around. The program for tonight's gala lists her among its chairwomen and chairmen, along with other entertainers, like Harry Belafonte, Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee. Listed as honorary chairmen and chairwomen are Bill and Camille Cosby; Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee; Joseph H. Flom, a Manhattan lawyer, and Brooke Astor, the philanthropist.
Unlike Mr. Stein, Mr. Dinkins has promised to abide by the limits of a city campaign finance law that restricts individual contributions to $6,500 over the course of the campaign. That will make Mr. Dinkins eligible for matching funds that Mr. Stein decided to forgo.
That also means Mr. Dinkins will have a harder time raising money. His goal tonight, said Leonard Riggio, his campaign finance chief, is roughly $1 million. But Mr. Riggio, who is also the chief executive officer of Barnes & Noble Bookstores Inc., does not see it as "a make-or-break event," just "one of a series of events."
Mr. Riggio discounted the effect of the Biegen affair on the Mayor's campaign. Union leaders -- angered by the announcement of the budget surplus last week and by the Mayor's apparent unwillingness to spend it on raises -- are not necessarily abandoning the the Mayor's campaign or the program tonight. Among the honorary co-chairmen is Barry Feinstein, the head of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (66%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); BARNES & NOBLE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FINANCES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); BOOKSTORES (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (53%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); STEIN, ANDREW J (CITY COUNCIL PRES); BIEGEN, ARNOLD I MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



861 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Dialogue on Aid to Ex-Soviets Bogs Down

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
More than 50 academics, executives and Government officials bogged down this weekend in a debate over policies that would give the United States a leading role in bringing capitalism and democracy to the former Soviet Union. The stumbling block was an increasingly familiar problem: the reluctance of many Americans to risk much money on the transition process.
By the end of their three-day conference in Harriman, N.Y., the experts had agreed that a list of policy recommendations would not be enough; their final report, issued yesterday, also had to explain to Americans why their tax dollars should be invested in Russia and the other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. The payoff is to be rising American exports, more jobs and new corporate income from investments in Russia. 
 Given the risks involved in investing in countries as chaotic as those emerging from the former Soviet Union, the conferees urged the Bush Administration to be a partner in the process. The Administration, they said, could help companies through the current risky phase by insuring their investments and allowing tax credits for some losses.
The report, like the debate itself at a conference sponsored by Columbia University's American Assembly, suggested that without Government backing, American corporations would be unwilling to invest heavily in the Commonwealth nations. And Germany rather than the United States might, as a result, play the leading role among the Western industrial nations in the Commonwealth's transition to capitalism.
"I agree there must be a long-term view -- profits five years away or longer if we invest now -- but the recession has forced us to limit our risk," said John L. Becker, director of international business development for the Cummins Engine Company, the Indiana maker of truck engines, which is trying to sell engines in Russia through a joint venture with Komaz, a Russian truck maker. "We no longer have the people to send to Russia, and the technical resources that I rely on have been cut back."
Bills now before Congress would lift current ceilings on Federal insurance for corporate investments in Commonwealth countries and would also expand Federal export credits. While these bills would be a first small step in the right direction, the conferees said, neither the Bush Administration nor Congress is likely to agree to a second step that might require significant financing, as long as recession or weak growth afflicts the United States economy.
 
Russians Skeptical
 Half-a-dozen Russians at the conference also expressed skepticism that the American public would be won over to generous Government financing. Nevertheless, some argued that a window of opportunity exists: Russia is forming commercial relationships with the West, and the United States should hurry to compete with Germany for the inside track.
"You in America should raise taxes to support your foreign involvements, but the economic hardship here has made tax increases politically unacceptable," said Andrei V. Kortunov, an official at the Institute of U.S.A and Canada in Moscow. "Why is it unacceptable? Because your middle class has not for 20 years had a rise in living standards; their incomes have stagnated."
Whatever the obstacles, Corporate America is increasingly calling for a Government-business partnership that would carry the Government far beyond the minimal financing envisioned in the bills before Congress or in President Bush's recent commitment to participate with other industrial nations in a $24 billion aid package to the commonwealth nations.
 
Coke and I.B.M. Officials' Views
 The corporate pressure showed up in a Commerce Department survey of American companies, released last week, and also at the conference here, not only in Mr. Becker's comments, but also in those of E. Neville Isdell, a Coca-Cola Company senior vice president, and Burt Polishook, a consultant who was the International Business Machines Corporation's senior executive in Moscow until December.
"I.B.M. has a subsidiary in Russia, but it does not yet manufacture there," Mr. Polishook said. "Government investment guarantees help the manufacturing develop, not only for I.B.M. but for other companies."
By comparison, the German Government insures foreign investments by German companies, using a Government guaranteed fund mostly financed through premiums paid by the companies.
 
Cummins-Komaz Venture
 The Cummins-Komaz joint venture would sell imported Cummins truck engines to Russians for dollars, the sales pitch being that the engines are more fuel efficient and last longer. Given enough sales, the joint venture might eventually make the motors in Russia. But potential Russian customers lack dollars, and so far, Cummins has invested only $500,000 in the risky joint venture and shipped only 10 engines, Mr. Becker said.
"The best deal would be for the U.S. Government to pay in dollars for the engines," Mr. Becker said, suggesting a form of foreign aid widely used when the Marshall Plan was rebuilding Europe after World War II.
Similarly, Coca-Cola suffers from Russia's hard-currency shortage. Coke sells the soft-drink concentrate to Russian bottlers for dollars, but with the hard-currency shortage Coke faces the prospect of exporting concentrate without immediate payment -- a risk that certainly postpones any Coke plans to invest in bottling in Russia, Mr. Isdell said.
As one form of Government support, Mr. Isdell suggested tax credits to help a company absorb losses from a risky Russian investment. "I don't actually believe in Government support," he said. "But unless the Government can help during this difficult period, we can do only what we have to do to keep a presence. We can't make an investment in Russia."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMI (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CUMMINS INC (81%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); EXPORT PROMOTION (74%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (74%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (70%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); JOINT VENTURES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (66%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



862 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: DOCUMENTS CHARGE IRAQIS MADE SWAP: U.S. FOOD FOR ARMS

BYLINE: By DEAN BAQUET

 BODY:
For more than two years the United States Government has had evidence that Iraq, in the months before it invaded Kuwait in August 1990, diverted food purchased under a $5 billion American aid program and exchanged it for money and arms in the Soviet bloc and in other countries.
Iraq may have used some of the money, one high-level American Government official wrote in an Oct. 13, 1989, confidential document, to acquire "sensitive nuclear technologies." 
 A team of Department of Agriculture investigators confronted high-ranking members of Saddam Hussein's Government with some of these accusations that same month.
The team also complained that Iraqi officials were repeatedly demanding bribes from many big American agricultural businesses selling food to Iraq, which was using money lent through the American aid program to buy it. In some instances the Americans paid those bribes, the investigators said.
 
Accusations of Bank Fraud
 Finally, the team charged that all these undertakings were part of a multibillion-dollar bank fraud in the United States that Iraq was engaged in to help finance the rebuilding of Saddam Hussein's military power.
The Iraqis indignantly denied the accusations, and to the astonishment of American law-enforcement officials who were investigating the case, the Bush Administration expanded the aid program with another half a billion dollars in guaranteed loans. Direct losses from those loans, which were backed by the Commodity Credit Corporation of the Agriculture Department, ultimately cost American taxpayers at least $400 million.
Documents made available to The New York Times and interviews with law-enforcement officials provide many specific details of the charges that Iraq manipulated the agricultural aid program. Since the Persian Gulf war began, the story of the Bush Administration's prewar courtship and assistance of Iraq has been emerging through news reports and Congressional committees. The Los Angeles Times reported last month, for example, that food intended for Iraq may have been traded for weapons and that Iraq was demanding bribes from American exporters.
Newly obtained documents and interviews suggest that Soviet bloc nations, as well as Jordanians and Turks participated in the subversion of the aid program. The documents also suggest that nuclear technology reached Iraq through the aid program.
None of these accounts makes clear how much food may have been converted to cash or arms.
Officials in charge of the Commodity Credit Corporation declined to be interviewed because they say the suspected Iraqi corruption is still under investigation. In 1991, some high-ranking Iraqi officials, along with executives of the Atlanta branch of the Bank Lavoro, Iraq's principal lender under the aid program, were indicted on charges that they participated in a multibillion-dollar bank fraud.
The State Department also declined to comment, but it has repeatedly said that aid was provided to Iraq to counterbalance Iran, as a way to stabilize the Middle East. While not commenting on any of these specific accusations directly, President Bush has said the United States originally tried to help Iraq because of its war with Iran. After the war ended in 1988, he said, his Administration tried to bring Iraq into "the family of nations." These attempts failed, Mr. Bush said, and the United States then helped organize the military force that halted Iraqi aggression.
 
Accusations Set Out In Meeting's Minutes
 
 
The accusations that Iraq used American aid to build its military force were discussed in an Oct. 13, 1989, meeting in the Agriculture Department. The participants included lawyers and other officials of the Commodity Credit Corporation, under which the Government cosigns bank loans for poor countries that want to buy millions of dollars worth of grain, corn and other farm products. The Government agrees that if the country defaults, it will repay the bank up to 98 percent of the loan amount, as well as a portion of the interest.
The minutes of the meeting quote the participants as saying, "Although additional research needs to be done, it appears more and more likely that C.C.C. guaranteed funds and/or commodities may have been diverted from Iraq to third parties in exchange for military hardware."
According to the minutes, the Department of Agriculture's Inspector General was "concerned that commodities were bartered in Jordan and Turkey for military hardware." Additionally, the minutes quote another participant as saying that law-enforcement officials had "some indication that diverted funds (and possibly direct bank-lent funds) were used to procure nuclear-related equipment."
"Noted in particular," the minutes continued, "were a 'nuclear fuel compounder' and a 'nose cone burr.' "
The participants, who included some top legal officials of the Agriculture Department, also said illegal "payments required by Iraq of exporters wishing to participate in the Iraqi market may have been diverted into acquiring sensitive nuclear technologies." American businessmen, they said, had complained that the Iraqis would not let them sell their products in Iraq unless they provided cash, trucks, spare parts and other equipment. Some companies did so, and those that would not go along, the minutes asserted, "were apparently kept on a black list and not allowed to participate in the Iraqi market."
The documents did not identify the American companies, and investigators declined to.
Law-enforcement agents and other Government officials spoke in interviews of additional evidence, based on information obtained from intelligence operatives and others, that some food was diverted to Soviet- bloc nations and traded there for weapons. They did not, however, identify these nations. This charge was not contained in the minutes of the Oct. 13 meeting.
 
Bank in Atlanta Financed Iraqis
 Iraq's participation in the aid program began in 1983, and by 1989 it was receiving $1.1 billion in annual loan guarantees, making it by far the biggest participant in the program.
At the heart of most of the Iraqi financial operations in the United States was Bank Lavoro, which is largely owned by the Government of Italy. The Italian Government has insisted that it did not know of these illegalities.
Bank Lavoro's Atlanta branch was headed by an ambitious banker named Christopher Drogoul and was actually more of a broker than a bank. It used its high credit rating to borrow money from other banks, then turned around and lent it to Iraq at a higher interest rate.
The Rome headquarters office approved the initial loans to Iraq, law- enforcement officials said. But, fearing too much exposure to a country whose economy was still reeling from an eight-year war with Iran, it declined to let the branch make others, the Italian officials said.
Initially, American law-enforcement officials and defense lawyers in the Bank Lavoro case say, Mr. Drogoul sought business by courting Iraqi bureaucrats in expensive restaurants in Atlanta, Washington and New York. On one occasion, he is said to have spent $4,000 taking an Iraqi official and his wife on a one-day shopping spree in Washington.
Before long the tables turned. Investigators say Mr. Drogoul managed to get American and multinational business people to court him, and he began receiving bribes from them, in return for the promise of doing business with Iraq.
A 347-count indictment returned last year asserts that Mr. Drogoul continued borrowing money from American and other international banks and lending it to Iraq. According to the indictment, Mr. Drogoul kept track of his unauthorized loans in a separate log known at the Atlanta branch-bank office as the "gray book."
The indictment charges that he was induced in part by hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash and gifts he received from the Iraqis and multinational companies that wanted to sell them food. Entrade International Ltd., a New York subsidiary of a giant Turkish company, the Enka Holding Investment Company, is named in the indictment as one such company and investigators said other companies are still under investigation.
Both Mr. Drogoul and Entrade have denied the accusations.
Among the major recipients of Mr. Drogoul's loans was Matrix Churchill, a Cleveland computer and machinery company that the Federal Government says was, in fact, secretly owned by Iraq. Customs officials in Cleveland, who shut Matrix Churchill shortly before the start of the Iraqi war, are investigating whether the machinery Matrix Churchill shipped to Iraq was designed or used for weapons.
 
Jordan Businessman A Principal Figure
 Court records identify Mr. Drogoul's ally in the dealings as Wafai Dajani, an American-educated Jordanian businessman with intelligence and business connections throughout the Middle East and the United States.
Mr. Dajani's brother is a former intelligence chief and interior minister in Jordan. Mr. Dajani himself often boasted of his contacts in the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency. Indeed, Government officials say Mr. Dajani was important in persuading some people in the Bush Administration to continue making loans to Iraq, even as the evidence of corruption mounted.
Mr. Dajani was the principal shipper of the food bought with American aid. The Iraqi Government gave him the right to ship virtually all the produce sold by the American food companies from the Port of Houston. Mr. Dajani said he used trucks to take the food through Jordan to Iraq.
Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the House Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs, which is investigating the Bank Lavoro scandal, has accused Mr. Dajani of helping Iraq acquire arms. Mr. Dajani denies the charge.
Gail McKenzie, the assistant United States Attorney in Atlanta, who is conducting the Bank Lavoro inquiry, said Mr. Dajani was a target of the investigation.
In a telephone interview from his home in London, Mr. Dajani denied arms dealing and said his name came up in the Bank Lavoro investigation only because of overzealous prosecutors. He also said the inquiry was fueled by anti-Arab sentiments.
Last month, The New York Times reported that some officials wanted to include Mr. Dajani in the original indictment. After the State Department pointed out that charging Mr. Dajani would infuriate King Hussein of Jordan, he was not charged. The King and Mr. Dajani are friends. Ms. McKenzie said the decision not to indict Mr. Dajani was made by prosecutors.
 
Alarm Bells Ring At High Levels
 In the summer of 1989, the Bank Lavoro fraud came to a crashing end. Two American employees of the branch, fearful that they might get caught, walked into the offices of the United States Attorney in Atlanta and offered to cut a deal. On Aug. 4, a team of F.B.I. agents and examiners from the Federal Reserve Bank swarmed through the branch and carted away boxes of documents, including Mr. Drogoul's "gray book."
Law-enforcement officials in Atlanta thought they had solid evidence in a case that would be easy to prosecute.
In Washington, Baghdad and Rome, however, the raid set off a series of policy meetings at the highest levels. Intelligence and diplomatic officials who insisted on anonymity said cables shot back and forth, and the C.I.A. and the State Department began fretting about the impact a prosecution would have on U.S.-Iraqi relations.
'We were trying to make friends with the Iraqis, and indicting somebody is not a way to make friends with them," said one Federal agent who said he became frustrated by the involvement of Washington.
According to Government documents made public by Representative Gonzalez, Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq met with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d on Oct. 6, 1989, and made it clear that his Government was upset about being brought into an American bank scandal.
The State Department's notes of that meetings quote Mr. Aziz as saying: "This was not a sign that the U.S. wanted improvement in relations. It is in fact a setback and the Government of Iraq is very unhappy."
Shortly afterward, Mr. Baker paid a call on Agricultural Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter and asked him to give additional aid to Iraq, according to a documents made public by Mr. Gonzalez.
Iraq had asked for another $1 billion in loan guarantees for 1990. Over the objections of law-enforcement officials investigating the case, the Administration decided to provide half that amount, with the agreement that the second installment would come if the investigators concluded high-ranking Iraqis were not involved in the fraud.
At the time, according to law-enforcement officials, defense lawyers, and others involved in the investigation, it was clear from the very beginning that high-level Iraqis were involved.
The negotiations ended when Mr. Hussein invaded Kuwait.

GRAPHIC: Photo: According to Government documents, Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq, right, met with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d on Oct. 6, 1989, and made it clear to Mr. Baker that Baghdad was upset about being brought into an American bank scandal. (Associated Press) (pg. D4)
 
Graph: "Cosigning for Iraq" shows value of export credit guarantees approved by the Commodity Credit Corporation for Iraq and other countries, 1983-1990. Aid is intended to help poor nations buy American food exports. (Source: Department of Agriculture) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; BANK LAVORO BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (82%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; BANK LAVORO COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (82%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING ; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BRIBERY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); BANK BRANCHES (68%); 

PERSON: BAQUET, DEAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



863 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Seeking Ways to Avoid Summer of Discontent

BYLINE: Sam Roberts

 BODY:
THE Rev. Clarence Norman, pastor of the First Baptist Church in Crown Heights, marveled the other night that the Brooklyn neighborhood was "one of the only truly integrated neighborhoods" in New York, perhaps even in the nation. Except for one thing.
"Unfortunately we live side by side with very little positive relationship with each other," he said. "About the only time we really have a relationship is when there's an explosion." 
 Eight months ago, Crown Heights exploded after a car driven by a Hasidic man struck and killed a 7-year-old black boy. A group of blacks, seeking to retaliate, stabbed a 29-year-old Hasidic scholar to death. Mr. Norman's suggestion that passions are still smoldering was echoed by Jacob Goldstein, a Hasidic rabbi who heads the local community board, and Richard E. Green, director of the Crown Heights Youth Collective.
They agreed that what happened in Crown Heights reflected a broader conflict between blacks and whites -- not just Jews -- and that both sides bear blame for tensions that government has not done enough to mitigate.
"We're fighting over resources that aren't there," Mr. Norman told Mr. Goldstein. "We think you're getting them, and you think we're getting them."
After two years of allocating losses, Mayor David N. Dinkins will finally unveil a better-news budget today, which begins to provide resources vital to poor neighborhoods that constitute his political base and to middle-class communities that often see little return on the resources they are required to invest in city government.
"The city found $10 million for overtime for cops last August," Mr. Golstein said, "but they can't find $2 million for the St. John's recreation center" in Crown Heights, which in fact, city officials say, is to reopen in the fall.
What price peace? Last week, Mr. Goldstein, Mr. Green and Mr. Norman offered refreshingly frank insights into why there are limits to what money will buy. They delivered their assessment to a group of business executives who are honing their social consciences under the New York City Partnership's David Rockefeller Fellows program run by John Brademas, president emeritus of New York University.
Just as in Mr. Dinkins's budget, not all the news about Crown Heights was bad. Under Mr. Green's auspices, black and Hasidic teen-agers regularly play basketball together. Blacks helped repair windows broken by vandals last August in the home of a pregnant Hasidic woman. A local automobile dealer donated a car to replace one belonging to the 7-year-old accident victim's father, which was burned in the violence that followed the accident.
But the depth of despair and of suspicion seems overwhelming, with the city's first black Mayor caught in the middle.
"Both sides bear responsibility," Mr. Norman said. "Most blacks think the Jewish community would be very happy if we disappeared. The Jewish community feels most blacks are either criminals or support criminals. I'm not going to attack a member of the Hasidic community. Neither will they attack me. Somehow there's got to be some way to reach the young people and deal with their economic and educational problems before there's going to be any peace. The older people tend to justify what was done by the youths because of their frustration."
He and Mr. Green maintained that anti-Semitism was an abstract theological concept, not a motive. Mr. Goldstein wondered then why Jewish people were singled out by young blacks.
" 'Heil Hitler' came out of their mouths," Mr. Green said, "but they had no more idea who Adolf Hitler was than Frederick Douglass or Reverend Norman. They are so uninformed. They are hurting. They are frustrated. They are angry. They would have turned that rage against anyone. These young people are not racists. Their bar mitzvah comes at 4 or 5. Their life is finished by 19."
Mr. Goldstein conceded that no group has a monopoly on misinformation. "I'll be frank," he said. "Members of the Hasidic community know very little about the history of the black community. Crack, unwed mothers -- these things are very hard for someone in the Hasidic community to grasp."
Symbols are easier to cling to. Mr. Norman, whose son, Clarence Jr., is an Assemblyman and the Brooklyn Democratic chairman, insisted that peace would be elusive until two irritants are removed: police escorts for the Lubavitcher rebbe, Menachem M. Schneerson, and obstacles to a local black doctor's practice that the physician complained were caused by crowds for Sabbath observances.
Won't they be replaced by other symbols?, someone asked.
"Possibly," Mr. Norman said.
"Young people call it 'the hype,' " Mr. Green said. "But it would at least give them some sense that changes were coming down the road."
He said he and others had heard that some young people might be stockpiling guns. "Last time, I knew if we just kept it to rocks and bottles," he said, "it would go away because eventually there would not be any bottles left to throw. We were lucky."
Dire predictions can become self-fulfilling. Avoiding facts can be self-defeating. Tempers and time are short in a season of discontent.
"Summer," Mr. Goldstein said, "is just around the corner."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (86%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); MAYORS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TRENDS (61%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, RICHARD E; GOLDSTEIN, JACOB (RABBI); NORMAN, CLARENCE (REV); ROBERTS, SAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



864 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Picking Winners Among H.M.O's

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
HEALTH maintenance organizations are thriving, riding a wave of national concern over medical costs. To hold costs down, these prepaid health plans generally limit their services to an approved list of doctors working on salary or under contract. For employers, H.M.O.'s cost about $3,000 per enrollee last year, on average, which is 15 percent less than traditional fee-for-service medical coverage, according to a survey of 2,409 employers by the A. Foster Higgins consulting firm.
Election-year concerns about new Government regulation may slow the surge in price increases for all health insurers. But the strongest H.M.O.'s expect to continue growing. 
 U.S. Healthcare, based in Blue Bell, Pa., near Philadelphia, is the largest investor-owned H.M.O. Last year it grew by 11 percent, to 1.3 million enrollees, mainly in New York and Philadelphia, where the company says it is the largest health maintenance organization. Margo L. Vignola, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, said U.S. Healthcare profits should grow by a robust 30 percent this year, although less than last year, when profits almost doubled.
U.S. Healthcare shares, heavily traded in the over-the-counter market, closed at $45.125 on Friday, down 62.5 cents
The United Healthcare Corporation in Minnetonka, Minn., a Minneapolis suburb, has about 600,000 H.M.O. enrollees plus 797,000 in H.M.O.'s managed under contract. Bernard F. McDonagh of Piper, Jaffray in Minneapolis thinks United Healthcare will gain business from the 160,000 people who are expected to get subsidized coverage for health care under a new Minnesota health-care law. He projects earnings growth in excess of 25 percent this year and again in 1993. The stock closed Friday at $68.625, off $2.125
United Healthcare also runs a number of smaller but extremely profitable related businesses led by Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, which helps H.M.O.'s control spending for prescription drugs. Demand for this service is growing rapidly as drug prices continue to outpace inflation and H.M.O.'s recruit elderly people, who are the main customers for pharmacies.
Tight control over drugs is a common strategy at three smaller health maintenance organizations recommended by Kenneth S. Abramowitz at Sanford C. Bernstein. The FHP International Corporation in Fountain Valley, Calif., has 690,000 members in the West and Southwest. FHP, which owns 2 hospitals and 38 pharmacies, spends $80 million a year on drugs, or about 6 percent of 1991 revenues. FHP pharmacists emphasize the use of lower-priced generic and older brand-name drugs. Similar strategies are favored at Sierra Health Services, with 91,000 enrollees in Las Vegas, Nev., and Ramsay-HMO Inc., which has 100,000 members in South Florida.
Luis E. Lamela, a pharmacist who is Ramsay-HMO's chief executive, specializes in serving South Florida's older Medicare population as well as the region's important Hispanic population. Todd Richter of Dean Witter Reynolds thinks Government efforts to slow spending on Medicare will mean continued growth for H.M.O.'s in Florida, which is notorious for high health-care costs. A Medicare crackdown on payments to Florida physicians may ease costs for H.M.O.'s there, he thinks, and also induce doctors to seek more patients by signing up with health maintenance organizations. FHP stock closed Friday at $13.125, off 25 cents. Sierra closed at $20.375, down 37.5 cents, and Ramsay closed unchanged at $7.125.
Washington encourages H.M.O.'s to enroll people covered by Government health programs, including Medicare, Medicaid for lower-income families and a program for the military called Champus.
The successes of health maintenance organizations in switching thousands of patients away from high-priced drugs is a marketing nightmare for many pharmaceutical companies, which can no longer spur their own double-digit earnings growth by aggressively raising prices.
Ms. Vignola and Mr. Richter also like Qual-Med Inc., based in Monte Vista, Colo., with 222,000 enrollees in Colorado, New Mexico, California and Washington State. "Qual-Med's expertise is in acquiring and turning around ailing H.M.O.'s," Ms. Vignola said. The company uses "state of the art information systems," Mr. Richter adds, and has been able to hold its medical spending to 76 cents per dollar of revenue, compared with 78 cents to 80 cents for most H.M.O.'s. Qual-Med stock closed at $20 Friday, unchanged.
He also recommends the Coventry Corporation, based in Nashville, which he says is the leading H.M.O. in St. Louis, Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, Pa.
Mr. Abramowitz notes that the stock market values U.S. Healthcare at $3.5 billion and United Healthcare at $2.7 billion, while none of the market values of the smaller for-profit H.M.O.'s exceed $740 million. By contrast, his favorites, FHP, Sierra and Ramsay, are "interesting but very small," he said. "I regard them as better values," he added. "My institutional clients regard them as bigger risks."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (93%); PJC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (70%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (70%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (63%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (63%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (56%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (93%); BELL PA (70%); PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (63%); UNITEDHEALTHCARE OF NEVADA INC (56%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); DIVERSIFIED PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PHARMACISTS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (88%); PHARMACIES (87%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); DRUG PRICES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); INSURANCE (70%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); BONDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); AGING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT MARGO L VIGNOLA (58%); TODD RICHTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



865 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Tapping Russian Oil Is a Multinational Job

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire's basic premise in "How to Save Russia" (column, April 9) is right. The oilfields of Siberia are the best place to nurture the Russian economy and thus its new democracy. But his proposal of a joint task force from the White House and the Kremlin falls short of providing a catalyst that can team Western oil companies with Russian producers to reverse the slide in the country's oil production and exports.
The obstacles to Western investment in Russian oil involve more than policy confusion in Moscow and bad press there for the most visible United States oil venture. High political risk, the main thing holding back international oil companies, also comes from a split between Moscow and oil-producing regions over control of resources. The West Siberians produce most of the oil and gas, and no foreign investment program can succeed without involving them directly. 
 My publication's report on West Siberian oil also finds a mismatch between the investment goals of the Western oil companies and the Russians. While Russian producers want capital and technology to boost flows from troubled fields as fast as possible, the oil companies are more interested in big exploration or rights to develop large untapped oilfields.
To bring in Western companies, a multinational, rather than a solo United States effort can generate adequate investment insurance and avoid duplication. The multibillion-dollar scale of most international oil projects is so large, and there are so many potential projects in Russia, that no country can take on the financing singlehandedly. A unified approach would also defuse potentially disruptive rivalries among Western countries. The French oil companies Elf and Total are at the forefront of Russian investment thanks to the support of their government.
Investment insurance should be provided through credits and guarantees, tapping some funds earmarked for general assistance in the Russian aid announced by President Bush.
Western governments could spur oil companies to take the plunge by setting up a foreign investment clearinghouse to help structure deals that meet the objectives of Western companies and Russian oil producers.
It is also time to revive the old lend-lease program used so effectively in World War II. Equipment shortages are one of the main reasons for the steep production slide. United States and Canadian oil services companies have been devastated by a collapse of drilling in North America, leaving plenty of scope to make available the pumps and other equipment the Russians need so badly.
Western help in reviving Russian oil production has other advantages beyond shoring up the new democracy. Other former Soviet republics and Eastern Europe have been almost completely dependent on Russian oil, and the loss of these supplies is straining relations between them and Moscow. More Russian oil could provide the basis for a real commonwealth. While a continuing rapid slide in Russian oil output could significantly increase the threat of an uncontrolled 1970's-style explosion in oil prices.
 
THOMAS WALLIN
Group Editor
Petroleum Intelligence Weekly
New York, April 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; SIBERIA (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



866 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Tapping Russian Oil Is a Multinational Job;
OPEC vs. Republics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To the Editor:
William Safire (column, April 9) supposes that black gold -- oil -- is "how to save Russia." Kazakhstan alone could contain as much oil as Saudi Arabia was presumed to have in 1980 (before effectively doubling its reserves). Republics from Communist rubble represent the most significant threat to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
The oil infrastructure of the former Soviet republics is in ruins: to replace it (not just repair it) will require investments of $200 billion -- before sufficient oil can reach markets to earn the hard currency required to save Russia, Kazakhstan and the other republics. Then, after the $200 billion has been spent by the republics, $300 billion more or so will be required to develop extensive reserves of oil and gas: the Tenghiz field in Kazakhstan alone will cost $100 billion. By the mid-1990's oil will have seen the peak prices of the decade. 
 In the mid-1980's, OPEC encouraged the perception that the Soviet Union was soon to become an unreliable supplier. OPEC understood the potential competition. Saudi Arabia did not boost oil production to 9 million barrels a day after the invasion of Kuwait just to win and keep Iraq's oil market share. To insure that Iraq does not get the oil revenues to become a threat again, the Saudis will keep their production high, and oil prices as a consequence cannot rise. The tactic will also succeed against Russia, Kazakhstan and the other republics as they seek to become true competition against OPEC.
The world's demand curve for energy flattens, especially as prices rise -- a reality of the 1980's the industry has yet to accept. New volume competition can join the party only at a loss of market share by those there -- who must keep prices so low that potential competitors cannot profit enough to remain competitors.
Put another way, Washington must insure Saudi Arabia has sufficient oil revenues to survive, or the lives of Americans in Operation Desert Storm were wasted. But the survival of Russia, Kazakhstan and other republics may well be the most significant impetus to world peace in the next century. They would need to seize the oil markets of Saudi Arabia and OPEC. Only one of these groups can survive; the other must fail.
Washington has unknowingly removed most other options. A Washington that once proclaimed Saddam Hussein a moderate even after he deliberately murdered Americans on the Navy frigate Stark in the Persian Gulf in 1987 may be forced by events to decide whether Saudi Arabia or a democratic Russia will be permitted to see 2010 as a viable economic entity.
 
NORMAN HIGBY
Menlo Park, Calif., April 9, 1992
 
The writer, an oil-industry consultant, publishes a newsletter.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; SIBERIA (RUSSIA) SAUDI ARABIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MARKET SHARE (86%); WRITERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); DESERT STORM (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EXPORT TRADE (56%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



867 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Much to Magazines' Relief, Travel Advertising Takes Off

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY

 BODY:
Yearning to put the recession behind them, Americans are once again making plans to hit the road -- and the seas and the rails and the skies. And to the relief of the magazine industry, travel advertising is finally beginning to take off, too.
"People are traveling; I'm hearing it everywhere," said Linda C. Cherry, advertising director for Traveler, a National Geographic bimonthly magazine. She said she expected ad pages to be up 29 percent over last year through the July-August issue, which closes next week. 
 Steven T. Florio, president and chief executive of The New Yorker magazine, said his advertising pages were up 7 percent in the first three months of 1992, with most of the gain coming from travel ads.
"We are up about 25 percent in travel, carriers, cruise lines, destinations and hotels," Mr. Florio said. "Business travel is back. Vacation travel is back. Even European destinations are beginning to advertise again."
Travel was severely depressed by the Persian Gulf war. Fears of war-connected terrorist attacks, combined with the recession and the declining dollar, kept many Americans at home last year.
But now amid modest signs of an economic recovery, not only is travel advertising on the increase, but so are the kinds of publications competing for it. Newsletters aimed at specific travelers are proliferating. Airline magazines are beefing up. And general-interest magazines are finding tourism and travel a very desirable category for their readers.
HG, for instance, is about to come out with a biannual travel newsletter that will discuss such topics as the design of cruise ships and airline seats, English country estates and distant resorts.
"A lot of people are seeing that the travel category is a very strong magazine category," said J. Kevin Madden, publisher of HG, formerly known as House & Garden, "and we think it can be a major category for us."
 
Some Caution
 James R. Guthrie, executive vice president for marketing at the Magazine Publishers of America, warned, however, that it was too soon for the industry to start popping champagne corks.
"The consumer is coming out of this period of economic self-restraint and is beginning to travel again, but there is not a lot of that yet," Mr. Guthrie said. "For my money, the next three months will tell the story."
Patricia Haegele, publisher of the Reader's Digest Association's Travel Holiday, said that she had budgeted about 400 advertising pages for the fiscal year that ends June 30, a 10 percent increase from the previous year, but that the magazine would end up with 10 more pages than budgeted.
The Sophisticated Traveler, part 2 of The New York Times Magazine, will have 16 more pages of advertising in its May issue this year than it had in May 1991, said Erich G. Linker Jr., senior vice president of advertising for The Times. He said The Sophisticated Traveler would have a total of 96 pages this May, compared with 72 in the May 1991 issue.
 
A Decline at Travel & Leisure
 Gourmet, which despite its name runs more travel ads than food-related ads, saw three consecutive increases in ad pages in its February, March and April issues, a result the magazine had not achieved in two years, said Richard B. Barthelmes, Gourmet's publisher.
The largest share of travel advertising, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, goes to Travel & Leisure, published by the American Express Publishing Corporation. For the first three months of the year, however, the magazine's ad pages declined 23 percent, one of the very few declines in the category.
Travel & Leisure's publisher, Sandy Golinkin, said that as the magazine with the largest share of advertising, Travel & Leisure also suffered the largest share of advertising cutbacks last year. She said advertising was on the increase now.
 
A Magazine Closes
 Thomas A. Florio, publisher of Conde Nast Traveler, said that while the magazine's overall advertising was up 8 percent through May, travel advertising had been flat, although it was showing signs of picking up. He said Caribbean and Asian travel were strong but that European advertisers were coming back very slowly.
The only really gloomy report came from European Travel & Life, which was closed last week because it was not attracting enough advertisers. The magazine had been started in 1984 by Mark Inabnit, a Texas magazine publisher, and sold to Murdoch Magazines in 1987.
Last year, European Travel & Life was included in the sale of nine Murdoch publications to K-III Magazines, which finally gave it the coup de grace on Thursday.
But there is more to the story. Mr. Inabnit, who had a soft spot for European Travel & Life even after he sold it, tried to persuade Sea Containers Ltd., a diversified Bermuda-based conglomerate, to buy the magazine and let him run it again. The sale almost came to fruition and then collapsed as Conde Nast made a successful bid for the magazine's list of 367,000 subscribers.
Refusing to give up, Mr. Inabnit said last week that he would start a new magazine, European Traveler.
 
Company Is Formed
 The new magazine will be published by Gulf Breeze Associates, a company being formed by Mr. Inabnit and two partners, David Walker, a former vice president and publisher at Prentice Hall, and Alexander Molinello, a graphic designer and marketer from Houston.
Gulf Breeze will be a development and consulting company that will serve the communications and travel industries.
"We are also putting together projects to develop magazine start-up ideas and magazine acquisitions," Mr. Inabnit said.
He said European Traveler would come out twice a year and would be distributed to newsstands in the United States, Canada and overseas. It will be financed by a group of investors now being put together by Gulf Breeze.
"I hate to see my original concept not developed," Mr. Inabnit said. "As for travel advertising, our forecasting is that it will increase 10 or 15 percent in 1992 and again in 1993."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Monday with an article about a resurgence in travel advertising in magazines misidentified the founder of European Travel & Life. He is Mark Inabnit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a strong market for travel ads, Mark Inabit, founder of European Travel & Life, plans to start a new magazine, European Traveler. (R. Jonathan Regh for The New York Times) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); CRUISES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); DESERT STORM (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (68%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE MARK INABNIT (56%); JAMES R GUTHRIE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



868 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 8; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
When Democracy Is Sold to the Highest Bidder

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

Who Will Tell the People
The Betrayal of American Democracy
By William Greider
464 pages. Simon & Schuster. $25.
In "Who Will Tell the People: The Betrayal of American Democracy," it is William Greider's not altogether startling or original contention that the wishes of the American people are no longer being expressed by what goes on in Washington. Instead, special interests are getting their ways, particularly monstrous corporations that seek to reach their global tentacles wherever labor is cheap and environmental laws are lax.
Mr. Greider contends that these groups work their will through money and manipulation. He writes: "A major industry has grown up in Washington around what might be called 'democracy for hire' -- business firms and outposts of sponsored scholars devoted to concocting facts and opinions and expert analysis, then aiming them at the government. That is the principal function of all those enterprises along Washington's main boulevards like K Street -- the public-relations agencies, the direct-mail companies and opinion-polling firms. All these work in concert with the infrastructure of think tanks, tax-exempt foundations and other centers that churn out reams of policy ideas for the political debate. Most are financed by corporate interests and wealthy benefactors." 
 He argues that this undemocratic network of influence produced such recent disasters for Americans as the savings and loan scandal, a shifting of the tax burden from the wealthy to the less well-off and a systematic corruption of environmental standards by industries spreading toxic wastes. All this has been done behind the scenes, he says. Nobody ever told the people.
What does Mr. Greider propose to do about this "betrayal of American democracy," as he calls it, besides write a 400-page book in which he jumps up and down and points his finger and yells? All is not lost, he concludes somewhat surprisingly. In his decades as a reporter and through his experience writing such books as "Secrets of the Temple: How the Federal Reserve Runs the Country" and "The Trouble With Money," he has traveled around the land and come to believe in the fallibility of the governing elite and the viability of the people. He intones: "There is a 'reassuring anarchy,' as I once called it, in the most exalted realms of power and this encourages my conviction that rigid arrangements of power are much more vulnerable to intrusion and change than the experts and authorities wish people to believe."
This is not terribly reassuring. It is also faintly pompous. Worst of all, by the time you get to it your mind has been pretty well numbed by the disorganization and repetitiveness of Mr. Greider's case.
Which is too bad, in a way, because when he rolls up his sleeves and gets down to specific cases, he can light a fire or two that helps one to see through the gloom. For example, in describing the "class shift" that he believes has changed the American press into part of the ruling elite, he writes an arresting memoir of his newspaper experiences in which he compares the "reporters" of the old Cincinnati Post with the "journalists" of the new Washington Post. In illustrating the "awesome reach and capabilities of one corporate political organization," he makes a damning case against what he sees as the arrogance of the General Electric Company.
Elsewhere, he argues provocatively that to bash Japan for paying agents of influence to promote its business interests is to single it out unfairly from all the American corporations that do precisely the same thing. And in asking why the generation raised on television has lost interest in mainstream politics, he makes the intriguing point that the future of American democracy may lie in understanding the implications of the program "America's Funniest Home Videos."
But all the nuggets in "Who Will Tell the People" are washed away by the mud slide of Mr. Greider's prose, which when not focused on particulars arouses the misgiving that its yield will not be equal to the effort it takes to read it. And all the faith he professes in the system gets swept away by those nuggets.
The reader even begins to feel a little cynical. Although Mr. Greider blames the Democrats as much as the Republicans for betraying the American people, and although he echoes his acknowledged mentor Theodore J. Lowi ("The End of Liberalism") in tracing the origins of interest-group lobbying to the rise of the New Deal, you nonetheless find yourself thinking that Mr. Greider is merely complaining as a member of the out-group. All that may be bothering him is 12 years of Republicans in the White House.
Of course this accusation isn't fair. He's arguing that the system is flawed, not the electorate, which, he says, increasingly feels alienated by its distance from the levers of power. "The most troubling proposition in this book is that the self-correcting mechanisms of politics are no longer working," he writes. "Most of them are still in place and functioning but, for the most part, do not produce the expected results." Moreover, it's not politics as usual that worries him, but rather the threat of global economics in the wake of the cold war's conclusion.
Yet the imbalance of his critique and his idealism is finally crushing. In one of his book's most revealing passages, he describes how a Washington lobbyist argued that environmentalists and other reformers waste energy attacking the White House oversight machinery. Instead, this observer suggested, they should concentrate on electing the kind of Presidents who will be sensitive to upholding the environmental laws rather than serving corporate interests.
"But, I asked, doesn't that sound as if the law is up for grabs?" Mr. Greider writes. " 'Of course the law's up for grabs!' he responded. 'The law's always up for grabs. That's why you win elections and appoint judges. That's why Reagan appointed 500 Federal judges. The law is not an inflexible instrument like a cannon that can be lined up and fired. It's a flexible human instrument that responds to political power.' "
The biggest problem with "Who Will Tell the People" is that we are expected to be appalled by this statement. The second biggest problem is that we are not.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Greider. (Lisa Berg/Simon & Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU); SUPREME COURT (US) SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU); SUPREME COURT (US) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND
LITIGATION WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SCANDALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); LITIGATION (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (52%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, KATHRYN; PREATE, ERNEST D JR (ATTY GEN); STARR, KENNETH W WILLIAM GREIDER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



869 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: LENDING AGENCIES ADMIT EX-SOVIETS AS FULL MEMBERS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank formally offered membership today to Russia, Ukraine and most of the other former Soviet republics. It was a major step to tie the republics into the rest of the world's economy.
Western and Russian officials said offering membership would also help make billions of dollars of Monetary Fund and World Bank aid available to the republics as they emerge from seven decades of Communism and make the painful transition to market economies. 
 "This is indeed an historic day," said Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Norman Lamont. "Some 46 years after its foundation, the I.M.F. has at last become a truly global institution, and the countries of the former Soviet Union are taking their place in the world economy."
 
Negotiations to Begin
 Now that membership has been offered, Russia and the other republics will begin negotiating in earnest with the Monetary Fund and World Bank on accords in which they agree to sweeping changes to build stable market economies. The I.M.F. has called on the republics to slash their budget deficits, remove price controls and reduce subsidies to industry.
Such agreements will reduce the economic sovereignty of Russia and the other republics by requiring them to meet strict conditions in exchange for receiving more than $20 billion in loans over the next three years.
American officials say that when Moscow signs an I.M.F. agreement, that will begin triggering much of the $24 billion aid package for Russia that President Bush and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany unveiled April 1 on behalf of the Group of Seven major industrial democracies.
 
Components of Package
 That package includes $4.5 billion in aid in 1992 from the I.M.F. and World Bank, a $6 billion ruble stabilization fund, $2.5 billion in debt deferral and $11 billion in government-to-government aid, including $2 billion from the United States. Group of Seven officials say that not only Monetary Fund and World Bank loans, but also the ruble fund and much of the debt deferral and bilateral aid, are contingent upon signing of an I.M.F. accord.
Michel Camdessus, the fund's managing director, said he hoped that Russia would sign an agreement in June or July and that other republics, which trail Russia in reforms, will complete agreements later this year.
Yegor T. Gaidar, the Russian Deputy Prime Minister who is representing his Government in the Monetary Fund meetings, said that signing an agreement would greatly help Russia in its transformation to capitalism, which he said would take most of the decade. "It is a slow process, a process that is politically difficult, socially depressing," he said.
He said the agreement would provide a basis for stabilizing the economy and would give Russia a seal of approval that would spur foreign investment.
Monetary Fund officials said that when balloting ended at noon today, a majority of its 156 members had voted for Russia and all of the other republics except Azerbaijan to join. Approval of Azerbaijan's application was delayed by paperwork, but fund officials said they expected to offer membership in early May.
"They can take justifiable pride in passing this historic milestone on the road from central planning to market-based economic systems," said Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady at a meeting of the fund's top policymaking committee. "For our part, we can use this occasion to re-dedicate ourselves to helping the new states complete the journey."
The Monetary Fund and the World Bank announced their membership offers at the two institutions' annual spring meeting.
The Soviet Union took part in the international conference held in 1944 in Bretton Woods, N. H., which set up the I.M.F. and World Bank to promote development and to supervise the world's monetary system. But Moscow ultimately refused to join the two institutions after disputes with Washington about the operation of the fund and the bank.
The membership offer to the former Soviet republics and the decision on Sunday by the Group of Seven to approve the $24 billion aid package for Russia are widely viewed as major steps propelling its transition to a market economy.
 
Specific Actions Urged
 The Group of Seven -- the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canada -- welcomed the tough economic reforms that President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia has pushed through since January. But they urged Russia to sign an agreement with the Monetary Fund that would mandate further action in these specific areas:
*Reducing the budget deficit.
*Curbing growth in the money supply to bring inflation under control, and halting the extension of credit to uncompetitive enterprises.
*Establishing a legal framework and contractual rights to allow the development of a market economy, including private ownership.
*Reforming the farming and energy sectors to spur production and increase foreign exchange earnings.
*Developing a fiscal system that insures that the central Government obtains enough hard currency to meet its international obligations.
*Establishing a single rate for the ruble, rather than continuing several different ruble rates.
"The task is historic," Michel Sapin, France's Finance Minister, said at a news conference in Washington today. "The task is difficult. The task is long."
In a morning speech to potential investors at the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Gaidar disclosed that his Government planned to establish a single ruble rate by July 1. Economists say this is a crucial step toward making the ruble freely convertible and for activating a planned international fund to stabilize the ruble.
 
Trying to Stabilize Ruble
 At a related gathering in Washington, the finance ministers of 11 industrial nations formally approved setting up a $6 billion ruble stabilization fund that will come into being once Russia and other republics have taken steps to steady their teetering economies.
The 11 include the Group of Seven countries plus Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland.
The money would come from an emergency fund known as the General Arrangements to Borrow, which industrial nations could draw on if they needed to prop up their own currencies.
Finance ministry officials attending today's meetings said many obstacles remained before a ruble stabilization fund could be set up. The steps they outlined paralleled the actions the I.M.F. is calling for. One is putting the unitary ruble rate in place.
Russia will also have to decide what rate it wants the ruble to trade at, and whether it wants a fixed or somewhat flexible rate. Russia, they said, would also have to clamp down on inflation to create a minimum of confidence that the stabilization fund would seek to build on.
 
Need to Curb Money Supply
 A senior German official said that perhaps the most difficult obstacle was to get not just Russia, but all the republics using the ruble, to rein in their money supplies at the same time.
"I can't imagine that this can be solved in one, two, three, four weeks," the German official said. "Maybe in one, two, three, four months. It's not a decision for tomorrow."
Several Group of Seven officials said the Netherlands sought to block the way the fund would be financed unless plans to increase the I.M.F.'s overall financing by $60 billion was first approved. In this way, the Netherlands sought to put pressure on the United States, whose failure to approve its $12 billion contribution has prevented the overall increase from taking effect. But the Dutch Government backed down when it saw that the group was intent on approving the ruble fund.
Monetary Fund and World Bank officials said they expected Russia and the other republics to join their institutions over the next few weeks once their Parliaments approve whatever laws are necessary for membership.
Russia is being given a 3 percent share in the capital of the Monetary Fund, which works in many ways like a cooperative bank. Within six months after accepting membership, Russia will have to pay $3.94 billion into the fund as a membership contribution, with 22.7 percent -- $895 million -- in hard currency and the rest in its own currency.
Under Monetary Fund rules, countries following the Fund's reform agreements can usually borrow three times the amount of their membership contribution over three years.
Altogether, the other 14 republics -- including Azerbaijan once it joins -- will have 1.75 percent of the fund's capital, and will have to put up about $2.8 billion, with almost $640 million in hard currency.
To join the World Bank, Russia would have to pay $333 million as a down payment on its shares in the bank, while the 14 other republics would have to pay about $250 million. The World Bank often allows countries to borrow many times what they pay in.
The World Bank said today that it was offering membership to all the republics except Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan. The applications of those two republics were delayed by paperwork, but are expected to be approved next month.
Addressing the Monetary Fund's policymaking committee, Treasury Secretary Brady urged the industrial nations to do more to spur global growth, asserting that economic sluggishness would hurt the republics' transition to a market economy. "The time for concerted action to promote recovery and boost its strength is now," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar of Russia, left, with Lewis T. Preston, president of the World Bank, after their meeting yesterday in Washington about an offer to Russia to join the organization (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A1); "This is indeed an historic day," said Norman Lamont, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, about the I.M.F. decision. (Associated Press) (pg. A6)
 
Table: "Joining the Club"
 Cost in millions of dollars for 14 republics of the former Soviet Union to join the International Monetary Fund. Of the cost, a country must pay 22.7 percent in convertible currency and the balance in its own. A smaller payment to the World Bank will also be required.

 	 	Armenia	$61.7	Belarus	256.2	Estonia	42.5	Georgia	101.4	Kazakhstan	226.1	Kyrgyzstan	58.9	Latvia	83.6	Lithuania	94.5	Moldova	82.2	Russia	3,940.1	Tajikstan	54.8	Turkmenistan	43.8	Ukraine	911.1	Uzbekistan	182.2	
 
(Source: International Monetary Fund) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); BELARUS (79%); LATVIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) BANK OF A LEVY (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC); UKRAINE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); BELARUS (79%); LATVIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); TRENDS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ; GAIDAR, YEGOR (MIN); PRESTON, LEWIS T GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



870 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: DINKINS PROPOSES A MODEST GROWTH IN HIS BUDGET PLAN

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday proposed a modest growth in the New York City budget that would be achieved through a gentle upturn in the economy, some new taxes and substantial cuts in some city services.
The plan drew a positive response from fiscal monitors. It was based on a projection of the city's economic future that is a bit more optimistic than in either of the Mayor's previous budgets. [Page B4.] 
 The spending plan also assumes $115 million in new taxes that the Mayor and the City Council support but that the Council Speaker acknowledged yesterday were not likely to pass the State Legislature.
 
Cuts and Increases
 The budget would substantially cut some services, like park maintenance and pothole repair, while providing millions of dollars in additional spending to provide longer library hours, health clinics for the poor and other welfare programs.
Overall spending would rise from last year's $28.7 billion proposal to the $29.5 billion recommended by Mr. Dinkins for the fiscal year beginning on July 1.
Acknowledging the tenuousness of his plan for new taxes and in an effort to apply pressure to win approval for them, Mr. Dinkins said that if the Legislature blocked the new taxes, he would make deeper cuts in the budget, including laying off workers and eliminating some of the programs he has spent the last few days announcing. Those programs include the longer library hours and the opening of additional city school buildings for after-school programs.
 
'Almost Impossible'
 The Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, yesterday praised the Mayor's overall spending proposal, citing its lack of property tax increases, and encouraged the Mayor to press forward with the tax package, saying that even though he believed it was all but dead, it should be considered because it was fair. "The Mayor is entitled to ask for it and we are not stopping him, but we think that it's almost impossible," Mr. Vallone said.
Mr. Dinkins's budget plan is virtually the same as the four-year financial plan that he introduced in January, except for two major changes. First, the Mayor's latest spending proposal identifies a $455 million budget surplus that budget officials said would be used to eliminate the city's plans to borrow $250 million with the help of the state's Municipal Assistance Corporation and to offset $200 million in Federal aid that the city will not receive.
Second, the Mayor plans to cut only about 16,500 jobs through attrition over the next four years from the city's work force of a quarter-million, down from the 20,000 he proposed in January, in part to meet new needs for health care and for special education for teachers.
 
Working Without Contract
 When the size of the surplus was disclosed last week, state lawmakers and leaders of the municipal labor unions, which are working without a contract, accused the Dinkins administration of hiding the surplus to distort the budget outlook to get new taxes and wage concessions.
Despite demands from labor unions for a share of the surplus in the form of raises, Mr. Dinkins repeated his vow yesterday not to increase wages for the next two years except in exchange for gains in productivity. "For all the talk of a 'surplus,' there is no secret largess up our sleeves," Mr. Dinkins said yesterday. "For all the talk of recovery, there is still a whole lot of recession we must scrimp and save and struggle our way through."
The Mayor noted, however, that he believed that labor would benefit from any improvement in the city's fiscal condition. City budget officials estimate that a 1 percent wage increase costs the city about $150 million.
Over all, the new budget, which requires the approval of the City Council, would cut city services by $222 million, resulting in fewer jail beds, bumpier roads, dirtier parks, larger public school classes and deferred sewer repairs. "Make no mistake: this was not a good-news budget in January, and it's not a good news-budget today," Mr. Dinkins said. "
 
A Stark Contrast
 But the new budget is in stark contrast to last year's plan, in which the Mayor laid out the specter of $1 billion in tax increases, along with cuts ranging from the shutdown of all municipal swimming pools to the elimination of infant-mortality-prevention programs.
The Mayor's latest budget plan also cuts spending by $235 million through "streamlining" initiatives, like reducing administrative and office staffs at city agencies, and by $129 million through "restructuring initiatives," including "privatizing" some city-owned housing and consolidating scofflaw towing.
Outside fiscal monitors and analysts yesterday applauded Mr. Dinkins's use of the budget surplus to avoid borrowing $250 million to help balance the budget. Bond raters had stongly resisted such financing, warning that it would jeopardize the city's credit rating and shut it out of a crucial market.
 
'Deserves High Marks'
 "The Mayor deserves high marks for proposing a balanced budget for the third year in a row," said Raymond Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a private watchdog group. "But his decision to use the surplus to avoid deficit financing is particularly good and he ought to be praised for that."
Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was set up during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's to sell bonds on the city's behalf, said yesterday that he was studying the Mayor's proposal and declined to comment on it. Mr. Rohatyn said last week that he was pleased that Mr. Dinkins was using the deficit to avoid the borrowing, but he criticized the Mayor for not revealing the surplus earlier.
Penelope Pi-Sinyer, executive director of the City Project-Alterbudget, an advocacy group for health and human services, lauded plans in Mr. Dinkins's budget to open 20 health centers, which would provide poor people with family doctors, and 10 new "beacon" schools, which would provide community assistance, including job training, health education and counseling.
 
A Contingency Plan
 But the Mayor said yesterday that those programs might be cut, and layoffs imposed, under a contingency plan if the city did not get the $115 million tax package it was seeking from Albany.
Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, maintained that the tax proposal was still alive and that the administration was building support for it in Albany. "We have done some impossible things in the past with the help of others, and we never count our smashed eggs until they are smashed," Mr. Jones said.
But John A. McCardle, a spokesman for Ralph J. Marino, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate, said the Senate was very skeptical of providing additional aid to New York City until the Mayor explained how the city needed new taxes at a time when it has posted a surplus.
Some fiscal monitors criticized the Mayor's budget plan for not doing more to achieve a "grand scheme" to shrink the size of government. "Most people believe that the city has too many employees and that a lot of the employees are underpaid," said Mr. Horton of the citizens budget panel. "Does his budget address these issues in any significant way? The answer is a disappointing no."
Elinor B. Bachrach, deputy state comptroller for New York City, agreed, saying it appears that Mr. Dinkins had abandoned a long-term view of solving the city's problems. Ms. Bachrach also expressed disappointment that the city's budget plans for the 1994 fiscal year included a substantial amount of the transitional borrowing that bond raters have warned against.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "New York City Budget: Highlights Of the Mayor's Proposal"
 
Where the money would come from:
 Property taxes: 27%
 Other taxes and revenues: 41%
 State aid: 21%
 Federal aid: 11%
 
Where it would go:
 Human resources: 25%
 Education: 23%
 Justice: 11%
 Debt service: 8%
 Miscellaneous: 8%
 Other agencies: 8%
 Pensions: 5%
 Health: 4%
 Environmental protection: 4%
 Fire: 2%
 Higher education: 2%
 
Taxes
 A freeze in average property-tax rate.
 A $115 million proposal that includes an increase from 8 cents to 13 cents per cigarette pack; a new 7.5 percent tax on cigars and other tobacco products; and an increase from 12 cents, to 18 cents per gallon of beer and from 26.4, to 39.6 cents per liter for liquor. Requires approval by State Legislature.
 
Service cuts: $222.2 million
 
Some examples of the cuts in services:

 	 	Corrections: Delays construction and staffing of a 1,000-bed	 	jail in Staten Island.	$7.6 million	 	 	Transportation: Reduces surveillance of potholes, snow	 	emergency response and internal surveys by 50 percent.	$4.1 million	 	 	Parks: Cuts number of maintenance crews.	$2 million	Education: Increases sizes of grades one, two and	 	three from 25, to 27.	$67.1 million	 	 	Environmental protection: Decreases sewer-repair	 	program by 50 percent.	$10.3 million	 	 	Police: Delays the start of police academy classes from the	 	end of one fiscal year to the start of the next,	 	saving on pension costs.	$31.5 million	 	 	Health: Eliminates vacant positions.	$2 million	 	 	Fire: Eliminates one battalion and one engine company	 	but no station houses.	$1.7 million	
 
Surplus from 1992 budget: $455 million

 	 	Higher-than-projected tax revenues	$158 million	Miscellaneous revenues	$37 million	Untapped general reserve fund	$110 million	Funds not needed to pay 1992 contracts	$75 million	Spending cuts	$75 million	
 
(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CITIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (54%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (54%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); VALLONE, PETER F (COUNCILMAN) DAVID N DINKINS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



871 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

End of an Era at Macy's
Edward S. Finkelstein resigned abruptly as Macy's chairman, closing a sad chapter in the saga of the 134-year-old retail company. He was the last of the merchants who presided over the golden age of department stores. [Page A1.]
In earlier times, Edward Finkelstein had used imagination and flair to rejuvenate stores, but there were doubts that he was the best man to guide Macy's out of bankruptcy. [D9.] 
 The board chose two men to run Macy's -- a financier, Myron E. Ullman 3d, and a merchant, Mark S. Handler -- an unusual step intended to address competing pressures facing the company. [D9.]
 
Companies
A $250 million investment in Goldman Sachs is being made by Kamehameha Schools/Bishop Estate of Hawaii. [D1.]
Sheraton is pitching lower -- and simpler -- prices to consumers, joining the chorus of airlines and rental car companies. [D1.]
Silicon Graphics reduced the price of its planned acquisition of MIPS Computer to reflect MIPS's poor first-quarter results. [D1.]
Fidelity Investments has acquired nearly 10 percent of Citicorp stock to spread among various mutual funds. [D1.]
The New York Times introduces its first foreign-language edition today, a biweekly paper in Russian. [D1.]
At the American Express annual meeting, it seemed almost an afterthought that company problems fit on the agenda. [D2.]
National City stockholders agreed to buy Merchants National, a $5.4 billion Indianapolis bank holding company. [D4.]
 
Earnings
Two of G.M.'s non-automotive units -- E.D.S. and Hughes -- posted solid profit gains. At G.M.A.C., profits were stronger but were distorted by an accounting change. [D5.]
ARCO Unocal reported steep profit declines, and Phillips Petroleum said it had lost $114 million. [D5.]
Borland International reported lower revenues and a net loss, reflecting problems digesting Ashton-Tate. [D13.] Compaq Computer said its earnings fell 60 percent. [D15.]
 
The Economy
Sales of existing homes jumped 12.5 percent in March, and gains are expected to continue through the rest of the year. [D3.]
Texas regulators gave natural-gas drillers more flexibility to determine the amount of gas they sell each month. [D3.]
Mayor Dinkins proposed modest growth in the New York City budget. [A1.]
 
International
The I.M.F. and World Bank offered membership to Russia, Ukraine and most other former Soviet Republics. [A1.]
 
Markets
Stock prices retreated. The Dow fell 19.90, to 3,304.56. [D10.] The number of uncovered O-T-C short sales rose 5.5 percent. [D20.]
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply, and long-term bond yields moved to their highest levels of the year. [D18.]
The dollar weakened abroad but ended mostly higher in the U.S. [D19.] Grain and soybean futures prices slipped. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Insurers, employers and medical review companies find that taking on greater care responsibility has exposed them to more suits. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
Fibreboard may wind up filing for bankruptcy. Or becoming a takeover target. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
Lowe & Partners has established a separate agency within the agency devoted to the advertising and marketing of cable TV networks. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); COP (NYSE) (81%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); FMR CORP (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); EXISTING HOME SALES (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); BOND MARKETS (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (53%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



872 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Xerox's Profit Increases 10.3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., April 27

 BODY:
The Xerox Corporation today reported a 10.3 percent increase in first-quarter earnings and said economic slumps in Japan and Europe contributed to flat revenue.
In the quarter that ended March 31, Xerox earned $128 million, or $1.12 a share, up from $116 million, or $1.01 a share, in the comparable period a year ago. Revenues were $4.24 billion, compared with $4.2 billion. 
 Paul A. Allaire, the chairman and chief executive of Xerox, said the overall performance was affected by economic sluggishness in Japan and Europe.
The work force was cut by about 1,000 employees in the quarter as part of a plan to eliminate 2,500 jobs.
Xerox has said it expects eventually to save $200 million annually through the reduction, which should be completed by midyear.
Xerox shares closed at $73.25 today on the New York Stock Exchange, down $4.625.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP XEROX CORP (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: PAUL A ALLAIRE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



873 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Up 12.5%; Gains Are Expected to Continue

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes jumped 12.5 percent in March from a year earlier, and gains are expected to continue through the rest of the year, the nation's largest real estate association said today.
The group, the National Association of Realtors, said some 298,000 existing single-family homes were sold last month, compared with 265,000 in March 1991. It was the third month in a row that sales increased over the previous year. 
 Rising sales reflect a strong demand that is expected to be sustained as the economy continues to recover, the group said.
"The economy is finally moving clearly toward recovery, and we're feeling it not just in housing but other areas as well," the group's president, Dorcas Helfant, said in a statement. "Consumer confidence appears to be on the rebound, new construction is blossoming -- in economic terms we're finally seeing signs of spring."
So far this year sales have risen 13 percent, to 712,000 units, from 629,000 in the first quarter of 1991.
Home prices have also risen, the association said, reporting that the national median price for an existing home in March was $104,000, up 5.4 percent from a year earlier. The median price is the point where half the homes cost more and half cost less.
The association said low interest rates and relatively stable prices were making home ownership "affordable to consumers in a broad income range."
Average interest rates on a conventional 30-year mortgage rose to 8.91 percent in March, from 8.76 in February, but have since declined, the group said.
Regionally, sales increased in all four of the group's tracking areas.
The largest increase was in the Northeast, which has been particularly badly hit in the recession. Sales rose 18 percent, to 40,000 units, from 34,000 a year ago. The median price rose 2.5 percent, to $145,000 from $142,000.
In the West, sales rose 16 percent, to 66,000 from 57,000. But prices fell 2 percent, from $146,100 to $143,200.
Midwest sales totaled 85,000 units, up 10.3 percent from 77,000. The median price rose 3.6 percent, to $81,000, from $78,200 a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



874 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Aid Defense Concerns In Search for New Customers

BYLINE: By THOMAS LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GREENLAWN, L.I., April 27

 BODY:
Saying New York State had lost more than 65,000 jobs since 1987 because of cutbacks in Pentagon spending, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo visited an electronics company here today to announce a state program to help military contractors find customers in the private sector.
The program, begun with limited financing from the state and the Department of Defense, is the nation's first "defense diversification" project to to receive Federal financial support, the Governor said. 
 Nine high-technology concerns on Long Island, which is home to the largest share of New York State's military industry, were named as recipients of grants, with $170,000 in state and Pentagon funds to be divided between them.
State officials said the money would be used for studies of the companies' operations, aimed at finding commercial markets for a host of products and technologies, ranging from radio antennas to electronic guidance systems, that have been developed for the Pentagon.
 
'Dying Product Lines'
 The announcement was greeted by skepticism among defense industry analysts, who said the aid was far to little to matter, and might be misdirected even if more was offered.
"I'm not convinced that the politicans have thought through the problem," said Howard A. Rubel, a military industry analyst for C.J. Lawrence Inc., a Wall Street securities firm. He added that government assistance might be better used to retrain military workers for other jobs, instead of trying to find new markets for "dying product lines."
"This is not like the end of World War II when there was a pent-up demand for civilian goods, and makers of battleships could switch to washing machines," he added. "This is a tough new era."
But while neither Governor Cuomo nor several corporate exeuctives at his announcment today held out much hope that small government incentives would lead to large new markets, they said the program will help foster innovation.
"The downsizing of our industry is enormous and necessary," said Martin Bloch, chairman of Frequency Electronics Inc., a Mitchel Field electronics concern that was one of the nine companies named as recipients of state and Federal assistance. But because of the advanced engineering and scientific skills among defense contractors, he said "there have to be alternatives" involving new private sector markets.
While announcing the assistance program, state officials released the results of two years' study on New York State's reliance on Pentagon spending, the fallout of Pentagon cutbacks.
It said that as recently as 1987, 500,000 people in the state were dependent on the Pentagon for their paychecks, either as military personnel at New York's 10 military bases or employees of defense contractors or their subcontracts.
 
Unrelenting Job Losses
 In five years, it said job losses have been unrelenting, particularly among the defense contractors, which shed 28 percent of their workers. Defense contracts in the state, which totaled $9.62 billion in 1987, fell to $6.86 billion in 1991, the report said.
The economic impact has been most severe among Long Island concerns, which have 57 percent of the state's defense contracts, it said, and where military-industry employment fell by 30,000 over the last five years. The report says the state may lose 56,000 more jobs in the next five years.
Governor Cuomo made his announcement at the Hazeltine Corporation, a maker of aircraft instruments, communications gear and other electronic products, which received $2.1 million in state aid in 1990 to help it develop new markets.
Partially as a result of the state aid, the company has developed a radio antenna system, original produced for the Stealth fighter, that can be used on commercial aircraft, allowing their passengers to listen to radio stations while in flight.
Governor Cuomo said Hazeltine's commercial venture provided a "model" for the nine Long Island companies that will receive state and Federal aid, all of them electronics and communications concerns that have been reliant on Pentagon contracts.
Besides Frequency Electronics, based in Uniondale, they are the General Microwave Company of Amityville; IMC Magnetics of Westbury; Dayton T. Brown Inc. of Bohemia; Logitek of Ronkonkoma; Aerodyne Controls of Ronkonkoma; Astrosystems Inc. of Lake Success; Republic Electronics Inc. of Hauppauge, and the EMS Development Company of Farmingdale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FEIM (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HAZELTINE CORP FREQUENCY ELECTRONICS INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAZELTINE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); LUECK, THOMAS J MARIO M CUOMO (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



875 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A Strange Limbo For Fibreboard

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
JOHN D. C. ROACH is a chairman with an unusual problem. Because of circumstances totally beyond his control, Fibreboard Inc. may wind up filing for bankruptcy within a year. On the other hand, if circumstances break the right way, the company may look attractive as a takeover target.
That situation, which reflects legal questions related to historic production of asbestos at Fibreboard, may explain its unusually aggressive wooing of Wall Street and of institutional investors. In a world where promises for the future are usually made quietly, or at least out of earshot of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Fibreboard is putting forecasts in its annual report. The company "believes that within three years Fibreboard has the potential to achieve annual pretax income of $15 million to $20 million," the report said. 
Mr. Roach, in an interview, said that income would translate into after-tax profits of $2 to $3 a share. Such profits would not be bad for a company that was trading for less than $3 a share earlier this year and was under $5 earlier this month, before the forecast was released. The share price has since climbed to $8.75, largely on the basis of the forecast, along with rising first-quarter earnings and a highly qualified "settlement" with one of its asbestos insurers.
In print, the profit prediction is hedged with qualifications. But Mr. Roach is not so restrained in person. "We used the word 'potential,' so analysts would not think it was a forecast," Mr. Roach said. "But I'm highly confident we can deliver on it."
A few problems must be overcome along the way, however, if that rosy forecast is to become reality. One is that the economy cooperates, providing good news for the company's three operating divisions, which are lumber and wood products, industrial insulation products and a California ski resort.
And then there is the asbestos litigation. Fibreboard, which was spun off from Louisiana Pacific in 1988, may owe its status as an independent company to its former parent's fears concerning that litigation. "It was too hot to handle," Mr. Roach said, when asked if Louisiana Pacific was trying to escape possible liabilities. "That was the intent, and the very wise intent."
Fibreboard's view is that it has two insurance policies that provide virtually unlimited coverage of cases where the exposure to asbestos began before March 1959. Its strategy seems to have been to lock in those coverages, and to find a way to get some of that coverage effectively to finance its costs for post-1959 exposures.
It may have achieved that goal with its settlement, announced on March 30, with the Pacific Indemnity Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the Chubb Companies. That agreement provided an immediate $10 million and additional payments of $20 million pending Pacific's appeal of a California court ruling on its liability.
If all the legal issues go Fibreboard's way in the appeal, Pacific will end up paying a total of $360 million, and the other leading carrier, Continental Casualty, a subsidiary of the CNA Financial Corporation, will be left to pay large amounts without being able to seek repayment from Pacific. Effectively, it appears that some of Pacific's money could go to pay post-1959 claimants. The company did not stop making asbestos until 1972.
On the other hand, Fibreboard could get less under the settlement if some legal issues go Pacific's way, and at the worst might even have to pay back the $10 million it has already received. If that happens, there is little doubt that the company will have to seek protection under the bankruptcy statute.
Mr. Roach was recruited in 1991 from the Manville Corporation, which has its own asbestos problems, to become chairman, president and chief executive of Fibreboard. He promptly engaged in the "big bath" school of accounting, in which new management reports big losses from assorted write-offs. The result was a loss of $43.9 million, on sales of $234.1 million.
But in the first quarter of this year, the company reported net income of $5.5 million, or $1.35 a share, on sales of $70.9 million. Because its ski resort makes the bulk of its profit in the first quarter, there is a seasonal bulge to those profits, but it still impressed investors and helped propel Fibreboard's share price higher.
The company's current asbestos reserves are expected to pay for the costs of all new asbestos health claims in the current decade, assuming Fibreboard prevails in its insurance litigation. But the company has not set up any reserves for the possible costs of meeting claims for asbestos removal from buildings.
Mr. Roach says he worries that if and when it is clear that the asbestos problems are behind the company, a raider may appear and buy it for less than its real value. That is one reason, he said, he has been courting investors.
That the courting has worked is clear from Fibreboard's 192 percent gain in share price so far in 1992. Whether that gain will endure, however, will not be clear until the California appeals court rules, probably in late 1992 or early 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Tracks daily closes on the American Stock Exchange for Fibreboard from January through April, 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326113 UNLAMINATED PLASTICS FILM & SHEET (EXCEPT PACKAGING) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS321114 WOOD PRESERVATION (92%); SIC3081 UNSUPPORTED PLASTICS FILM & SHEET (92%); SIC2491 WOOD PRESERVING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FIBREBOARD CORP FIBREBOARD CORP (92%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIBREBOARD CORP AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES INSURANCE (89%); ASBESTOS (89%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); LITIGATION (87%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TOXIC TORTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (76%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; ROACH, JOHN DC

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



876 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: At Dinkins Fund-Raising Soiree, Turnout and Spirits Are High

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins held a major fund-raising dinner last night that many Democrats were watching carefully as a barometer of his political support and campaign credibility.
The Spring Gala event at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers came on the same day that Mr. Dinkins released the budget voters will likely judge him on in the 1993 election. The soiree was three months after City Council President Andrew J. Stein, the Mayor's main Democratic rival, raised nearly $2 million at a glitzy event at the Waldorf-Astoria, luring several of the Mayor's 1989 supporters to a $5,000-a-plate affair. 
 Many political consultants and Democrats agreed that Mr. Dinkins needed to restore the confidence in his campaign that was eroded when his former finance chairman, Arnold I. Biegen, admitted in January that he had stolen $158,000. Mr. Dinkins also needs to show, they said, that he can still draw the standard list of politically powerful people who traditionally finance politics in New York City.
If last night's $1,000-a-plate dinner were any measure, Mr. Dinkins has come through the Biegen scandal, as well as recent criticism from labor and fiscal watchdogs about how he handled the city budget, relatively unscathed. About 1,028 people attended the event, which was expected to raise at least $1 million.
"We expected it to be a financial success," the Mayor said at the dinner, "as it obviously is."
Leonard Riggio, the Mayor's new campaign finance chairman and the chief executive of Barnes & Noble Bookstores Inc., said the event should dispel any qualms that Dinkins supporters might have had after Mr. Biegen was indicted.
"This one will send a signal out there that we are in business and we can still raise money for David Dinkins," Mr. Riggio said yesterday afternoon.
Among those who attended were leaders of the business and legal communities including Arthur Levitt Jr., Roger Altman, Jonathan M. Tisch, Bruce Ratner, Lewis Rudin and Anthony Gliedman.
While Mr. Stein held a black-tie dinner in January with a performance by Frank Sinatra as a draw, Mr. Dinkins opted for business attire and a inspirational 10-minute video put together by his campaign about his accomplishments in office.
The video, "The Promise, The Performance," recounted the Mayor's Harlem roots and rise to power. It also touted several mayoral programs as successes, several of them initiatives announced in the last two weeks, like a move to reopen libraries five days a week and to establish neighborhood health clinics.
 
Praise From Cuomo
 Gov. Mario M. Cuomo gave a short speech praising the Mayor for balancing his budget three years in a row, despite a faltering economy, a feat the Governor called enviable, considering the state's budget problems.
"He has done all that can be done," Mr. Cuomo said, "and much more than others might have done." But when asked whether he would endorse Mr. Dinkins, the Governor said, "When there's a race and candidates, then there will be people to endorse."
The probable Republican candidate, Rudolph W. Giuliani, is planning a fund-raising event on May 18 with Willie Mays and the comedian Joe Piscopo. Mr. Giuliani has about $200,000 in his campaign treasury.
 
Support on All Sides
 Some of those at Mr. Dinkins's dinner also attended Mr. Stein's event, in the age-old tradition of hedging political bets.
One of them, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts, pastor of Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, gave the invocation at Mr. Stein's dinner and was listed a chairman of Mr. Dinkins's event. "In the African American community, there are too many who feel estranged," Mr. Butts said before the dinner yesterday. "Now either that estrangement is perception or reality, but the feeling is still there. And we are concerned about it, so much so that while I support him as Mayor, I reserve my endorsement for re-election."
Another person supporting both campaigns is John A. Catsimatidis, president of Red Apple Company, the grocery store chain, who said he was planning to give both men money and put off his final decision. "You shouldn't mistake buying a table at the man's dinner with support," Mr. Catsimatidis said. "When the election comes up and people announce, that's when you make your decision."
But other prominent business people who attended said the turnout had dispelled notions of Mr. Dinkins as a vulnerable candidate. "I think the Mayor has gone through his worst years," Mr. Rudin said. "I think it is an enthusiastic crowd full of genuine feeling."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Billed as the first major campaign event in a still-unannounced re-election campaign, Mayor David N. Dinkins was every bit the candidate as he greeted supporters last night at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers. Organizers hoped to raise $1 million from the more than 1,000 guests. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (54%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BARNES & NOBLE INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FINANCES FUNDRAISING (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); INDICTMENTS (71%); BOOKSTORES (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR ROGER ALTMAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



877 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Russian-Language Edition Of The Times Begins Today

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The New York Times today introduces its first foreign-language edition, a biweekly paper in Russian called The New York Times News in Review.
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., publisher of The Times, announced arrangements for the publication yesterday at a news conference at The Times. It is a joint venture with The Moscow News, a weekly paper that emerged in the mid-1980's as one of Russia's first independent journalistic voices. 
 News in Review, which will appear every other week and will vary from 16 to 24 pages, will carry articles and editorials that have already appeared in The Times. The paper costs 5 rubles, about 5 cents, and is being distributed in some 30 major cities with an initial circulation of 100,000, including about 3,000 copies that will be sent free to senior Government and business leaders.
In recent years, the Hearst Corporation, the Reader's Digest Association, Rodale Press Inc., International Data Group Inc., Business Week and other communications companies based in this country have also begun Russian-language enterprises in the former Soviet Union.
Yevgeny Abov, deputy editor in chief of The Moscow News, said yesterday by telephone from Moscow that a Russian version of The Times would principally appeal to an elite audience that wanted a better understanding of the United States and the American perspective on world affairs.
Mr. Abov added that such understanding was important because there are now "high hopes" in the former Soviet Union for a variety of political and business partnerships between the commonwealth states and the Unites States.
Ann Hagen Kellett, founding editor of the new paper, said that initial prototypes placed articles about Russia in the first several pages, but the order was changed after the Russians who saw the prototype said they preferred to have articles about the United States first.
She said that an editor based at the Times Company's syndication headquarters in New York would select about 90 percent of the articles that appear in the Russian-language paper, which will include pieces on science, health and the arts, as well as coverage of business and foreign and domestic affairs drawn from The New York Times. The remaining 10 percent of the content will be selected in consultation with editors at The Moscow News, from an array of material from The Times.
The Moscow News will mainly be responsible for translation and distribution; it has a similar arrangement with Paris Match, the French magazine.
 
Described as Experiment
 Mr. Sulzberger described the venture as an experiment that is expected to break even but not make a profit during the first six months. The plan is for the publication to appear weekly, beginning early in 1993, if some transmission problems can be solved.
In a statement, The Times said its costs would be covered by advertising from American Express, Archer Daniels Midland, the Coca-Cola Company, Estee Lauder International, Goldman Sachs, I.B.M. and T.W.A. Each has agreed to purchase 12 full-page ads in the paper.
The Moscow News has proved a vigorous organization in the new commonwealth, and the paper's editors approached The Times 18 months ago with an idea of a joint venture to publish a daily version of The Times in Russian. But daily publication was quickly abandoned as too expensive, primarily because of the high cost of newsprint in the former Soviet Union.
While Mr. Sulzberger said that The Times had only modest profit expectations for the venture, The News could profit significantly, in relative terms. Under the current arrangement, The News will get 50 percent of the revenue from ads sold in the United States and all advertising revenue generated in the commonwealth countries.
But the venture also holds potential for The Times, which, like other newspapers, has been seeking ways to repackage its news product to generate additional revenue.
Mr. Sulzberger said there were no plans to start other foreign-language editions of The Times.
The huge potential audience and evolving society in the commonwealth states have proved a potent lure for attracting a variety of publishing ventures, but the market is hardly one without problems, from telecommunications difficulties to pockets of ideological hostility.
"It's a tough nut to crack," said George D. DeVault, editor of Rodale Press's Novy Fermer (New Farmer), which has circulation of 40,000 and is aimed at private farmers, a group that is viewed with enduring suspicion after decades of collective farming. Various difficulties forced Novy Fermer, a joint venture with Russian partners, to switch from bimonthly to quarterly publication. The Rodale Press, which is based in Emmaus, Pa., also publishes Organic Gardening, Prevention and other magazines.
International Data Group Inc., a Boston-based publisher of computer information, has begun four Russian-language publications, including Russian versions of PC World, a monthly, and Computer World, a weekly.
 
Hearst and Izvestia
 This year The Hearst Corporation began publishing We, an ambitious paper in both Russian and English, in partnership with Izvestia, which was formerly the newspaper of the Soviet Government and is now an independent paper with five million daily circulation.
William J. Hallenbeck, publisher of We, said the paper had a circulation of about 300,000 in Russian and 50,000 in English, and is produced by its own staff of Russian and American journalists working together in Moscow and Washington.
The Reader's Digest Association's Russian-language edition is not a joint venture but one of 41 editions The Digest publishes in 17 languages. Some 100,000 copies of the monthly magazine are sold, and all of the contents come from outside the commonwealth, the association said.
Business Week publishes a monthly version of its magazine translated into Russian in a joint venture with Kniga, a state-owned printing enterprise.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The foreign-language edition of The New York Times News in Review as it was introduced in a joint venture with The Moscow News. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%); ADM (NYSE) (60%); KO (NYSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (50%); AXP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (60%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (60%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (60%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (60%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (60%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (60%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (60%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); HEARST CORP (84%); READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (69%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (69%); RODALE INC (69%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (60%); COCA-COLA CO (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (50%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

SUBJECT: NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; RUSSIAN LANGUAGE; NEWSPAPERS LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S; SULZBERGER, ARTHUR OCHS JR ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



878 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: A Risky Fiscal Plan;
Dinkins's Budget Relies on Tactics That Were Abandoned as Unrealistic

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins's proposed New York City budget counts on a modest economic recovery and rebounding tax revenue to help balance the city's books in the coming years -- a forecast so far buttressed by only the first glimmers of fact.
That forecast is just one of the optimistic assumptions on which Mr. Dinkins's spending plans are built, and it will have to be measured over time. A more immediate uncertainty is his request to the Legislature for $115 million in new taxes on commuter incomes, fuels, tobacco and liquor, a package that politicians say is already dead. 
 The taxes, and estimates for about $100 million in higher tax revenue, which are pinned to a recovery, are the biggest potential risks in the $29.5 billion budget for the fiscal year that starts July 1. The risks grow swiftly after that, with the reliance on the new taxes alone more than doubling, to $297 million by 1994.
What is more, to help close projected gaps between revenue and expenses averaging $2.5 billion a year from 1994 to 1996, the Mayor's budget shows the city depending on the very strategies -- borrowing hundreds of millions of dollars to cover expenses and hoping for hundreds of millions of dollars more in Federal aid -- that it had abandoned as unrealistic for the coming year.
"Money does not grow on trees," Mr. Dinkins said, assessing the risks, "and if the scorched-earth policies in Washington continue, the miracle of economic recovery will not flower overnight. The challenges are still tremendous."
 
Avoiding Future Pitfalls
 Yet yesterday's problems seemed like nothing compared with the pressing budget crises of last spring, and the Mayor and his team seem relieved that the future was the worst thing they had to worry about. They acknowledged that big borrowing in the future would pose the same problems with Wall Street bond raters and fiscal monitors that it does now, and they said they would do all they could to avoid it.
"The fact that it's not something that has to be done now, and it's more than a year and a half away from actually happening, lets everyone pause and not be too alarmed about it," said the Budget Director, Philip R. Michael. "But if we go six or eight months from now, and it's still being reflected in our plan, that'll be a matter of greater concern."
Just how the city will avoid such pitfalls remains unclear, and if there was any alarm among fiscal watchdogs yesterday, it was that the administration had chosen to pause a bit. The Mayor still faces pressure from the city's labor unions, and while he has vowed to grant raises only in exchange for improved efficiency over the next two years, he said yesterday that "if we do see some relief from a long and painful recession, I fully expect that our work force -- as well as all residents and businesses in our city -- will benefit."
Mr. Dinkins would not speculate on whether that meant raises without concessions -- which would cost $150 million for each percentage point of increased pay. Business groups praised the Mayor's efforts but said he had still not done enough to win work rule changes and bring the city's labor policies more in line with the cutbacks and increases in efficiency already undertaken by the private sector.
 
Tax Revenue and Job Losses
 But even the most pessimistic among the fiscal monitors allowed that the budget for the coming year would undoubtedly be balanced, and economists said the future economic estimates, while hopeful, were not unrealistic.
The city actually projects more job losses for the city economy this year than it did in January, 118,000 compared with 72,000 then, and employment growth of just two-tens of 1 percent in the coming years. But it believes an increase in wages, fueled by record profits and big bonuses on Wall Street, will make up the difference.
"Wall Street is now generating so much income that it's really starting to spin off into the tax revenues, and so those revenues are going up, even though the job losses are continuing," said Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. "There's a kind of taffy-pulling going on between the two."
Of the $455 million budget surplus that the city managed to eke out for the current year, the single largest part -- $158 million -- came from higher than expected tax revenue, with about $100 million of that coming from economically sensitive taxes. But that was possible only because the city revised its projections downward again and again, and still represents less than the city expected to collect when it adopted the current budget last June.
 
Stressing a Cautious Outlook
 City officials insist that their outlook remains cautious, in part because a sluggish real-estate market and Mr. Dinkins's pledge of a four-year freeze in property tax rates will hold down growth of the city's most reliable revenue source, the property tax. Overall, including the proposed new taxes, the city expects tax revenue growth of only 1.4 percent next year, or $243 million on a base of $17 billion, far below the 8 and 10 percent annual growth of a few years ago.
"Revenues are performing slightly better, but we're not talking about a material change," said David Smith, a deputy budget director. "We're seeing a little bit of strength a little sooner than we thought, but we do not think this recovery is going to look like the recovery of the 80's."
Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said skepticism was well-advised because job losses continued and had all but wiped out the 350,000 jobs added to the local economy between 1976 and 1987. Even growth in wages might not be enough to assure growth, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
"To project that is to walk down memory lane and think you're headed for the future," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tax Revenues: A Period of Sluggish Growth" shows the annual increases in New York City revenues from property taxes and other taxes, from '89-'96 ('93-'96 are projected) (Source: New York City Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FORECASTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (70%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S DAVID N DINKINS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



879 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGEST
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
DINKINS OFFERS BUDGET PLAN
Mayor Dinkins proposed a budget for the next fiscal year that includes substantial cuts in New York City's services and work force, but not as deep as had originally been projected. The $29.5 billion budget provides millions of dollars for longer library hours, health clinics for the poor and other welfare programs. It is based on a projection of the city's economic future that is more optimistic than either of the Mayor's previous budgets, reflecting a slight rise in the city's tax revenues. It also assumes $115 million in new taxes that the Mayor and the City Council support but that officials acknowledged may face trouble in the State Legislature. A1.
 
CUNY ADOPTS TOUGHER STANDARDS
In its sharpest change of direction since adopting open admissions in 1970, the City University of New York yesterday approved a broad plan to tighten educational requirements over the next decade. Although open admissions will be retained, students will have to have taken college-preparatory courses in high school or take extra courses at the university before getting their degree. The program will likely lead to major changes in many of the city's public high schools. University trustees also improves a tuition increase. A1.
 
FIFTH DEATH IN PARK CRASH
Bryant Fonseca turned 20 on Saturday. On Sunday night he became the fifth person to die as a result of a car crash in Washington Square Park on Thursday. "We can try to find someone to blame because that would give us a resolution, but that is useless," his father, Michael, said. B3.
 
BABY FOUND IN TRASH BIN
A newborn boy, barely breathing, was found in the garbage bin of a six-story apartment building in the Bronx after he was apparently dropped down the building's garbage chute. The child was found by a porter who was about to pull the bin from under the chute and push it a few feet to the garbage compactor. B3.
 
JUDGE BACKS DEATH-PENALTY LAW
A judge said she would uphold the constitutionality of a new Federal death-penalty law in the narcotics-murder trial of a reputed Mafia member in Brooklyn. Judge Reena Raggi said she would reject a defense motion to declare the death-penalty provision unconstitutional. B3.
 
In Federal Court, Tarzan v. Vogue. B3.
 
REGION
 
A PLAN TO SELL CITY HALL
Short of cash? Why not sell City Hall? That, in effect, is what the Suffolk County Legislature will be considering today. As a way to raise a quick $25 million, Suffolk wants to sell its most prominent government building to a newly created public trust, which would then lease it back to the county. Most Democrats and Republicans, say they can support the concept, which has been used at the state and county level from New York to California. B5.
 
HELP FOR MILITARY CONTRACTORS
Saying New York State had lost more than 65,000 jobs since 1987 because of cutbacks in Pentagon spending, Governor Cuomo visited an electronics company here to announce a state program to help military contractors find customers in private industry. The program is the first of its kind in the nation to win Federal support, the Governor said. B5.
 
Our Towns B5
Chronicle B20

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Student-Teacher Ratio" shows the number of students for each teacher in public elementary and secondary schools in U.S., Conn., N.J. and N.Y. from '86-'90. (Source: U.S. Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (87%); COUNTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); TUITION FEES (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (65%); MURDER (65%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (57%); 

PERSON: REENA RAGGI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



880 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Perot Backers Make Gains on Election Barriers

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
The Presidential campaign mounted on behalf of Ross Perot is targeting New York State for a particularly intense petition drive aimed at surmounting the obstacles in its election law.
Thomas D. Barr, a prominent Manhattan lawyer and adviser to Mr. Perot, said yesterday that the Perot Petition Committee, the group that is trying to get Mr. Perot on the ballot, would open an office in Manhattan to deal with the intricacies of the law -- long considered the most arcane and difficult in the nation for insurgents to overcome -- and also to coordinate the efforts of numerous Perot for President efforts that have cropped up around the state. 
 A spokesman for the committee, Sharon Holman in Dallas, said this would be the first campaign office outside of Dallas.
But the sentiment against insider politics that has fueled the Perot boomlet may have already contributed greatly to increasing his chances of making it on to the New York State ballot.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo released a memorandum yesterday outlining what he said were changes in the election law agreed to by his administration and Democratic and Republican legislative leaders. These measures could reduce the number of petition signatures independent candidates like Mr. Perot would need to qualify for the ballot.
It is not clear whether the change will help Mr. Perot himself, since negotiators have not agreed on when the new laws could take effect. The memorandum left open the question of whether the Legislature would deal with many of the thorniest aspects of the election law. [Page B2.]
Whatever the breadth of the revisions, political insiders say it is doubtful that officials of either major party want to be seen as the backroom maneuverers who killed the opportunity to vote for Mr. Perot.
Across the New York metropolitan region, Perot proponents report that thousands of people have volunteered to help with his potential campaign.
Those most active in Perot efforts say the support spans economic and cultural lines, but among the most enthused appear to be large numbers of small business people who are white, middle class and, at least among those queried in spot interviews, often Republicans.
 
It's Tough in New York
 While getting Mr. Perot onto the ballot in New Jersey, where only 800 signatures are required, or in Connecticut, where 14,620 are needed, is not particularly difficult, in no state is it tougher than in New York.
Under the present law, during five weeks from July to mid-August, Mr. Perot's forces would have to gather 20,000 signatures, including 100 from each of half the Congressional districts in the state.
None of the signatures could come from voters who signed petitions for any of the candidates in the Democratic Presidential primary or any of the delegates selected to attend the Republican convention.
"We are very confident we can collect 100,000 signatures," said Kurt Koenig, who is running a Perot drive in the state. "By August 12 we expect to have more volunteers than the necessary number of signatures."
In any event, John Marino, the Democratic State Chairman, said that his party would not stand in the way of the Perot petitions. William Powers, the State Republican Chairman, said through a spokesman that it was too soon to tell how the party would evaluate a Perot challenge, but a leading Republican operative in the state said that it was doubtful his party would challenge the petitions either.
 
Two Million Calls Tallied
 A flap over Mr. Perot had developed after an item in U.S. News & World Report said that national Republican tacticians were encouraging the New York party to challenge Perot petitions on technicalities, a hallowed local political tradition. But last week Mary Matalin, political director of President Bush's campaign, denied the report, as did a spokesman for Mr. Powers.
Mr. Perot set off a telephone call-in spree on March 16 when he said on a cable interview show that he would consider running for President if supporters could get his name on the ballots in all 50 states. He has eased up on that position since, saying he would run even if he did not get on the ballot in New York.
The Perot petition committee, largely supported by hundreds of thousands of dollars from Mr. Perot, says that more than two million calls have come in since the cable show.
In New York Mr. Koenig and Charles Donnelly, who owns an advertising company where Mr. Koenig works, say they are working with the names of several thousand people who called Mr. Perot's number or a New York City number they featured in a three-line advertisement on the front page of The New York Times last month. They say they have contacts in more than 25 of the state's 33 Congressional districts and that small contributions totaling $5,000 or so have been placed in a newly opened bank account.
 
New Recruits to Politics
 A registered Republican, Mr. Donnelly seems typical of the kind of support that Mr. Perot is picking up in the New York metropolitan region. He said he never truly became involved in party politics, but was swayed to the cause of Mr. Perot after hearing him on television several times.
They describe themselves as "people who just honestly want a change," in the words of Mr. Donnelly, who has given over the top floor of his office to the effort; as "bleeding heart conservatives," in the words of Jacqueline Joy, a homemaker married to a construction manager who lives in upstate Dewittville; and as voters whose ballots are "wasted in the system," in the words of Rocky Lee, who runs a chrome plating company in Linden, N.J.
Combining middle-class stability and patriotism with economic and more free floating edginess, they believe, that "The overall structure of America is the best in the world, but you need a leader -- a true, competent leader. The whole process is stopped up," in the words of James Grady, who runs a wholesale tree business in Albany.
In New Jersey Thomas O'Neil, a construction consultant, said he had compiled more than 7,000 names on a mailing list since scheduling his first meeting of Perot supporters about seven weeks ago.
Describing himself as "rather apathetic and apolitical for years," Mr. O'Neil, of Lawrenceville, said he had seen Mr. Perot speak a number of times over the years and always left thinking, "Why can't we get guys like that to run for higher office in this country?"
 
Dallas Sends Names
 In Connecticut, when Perot forces gathered at Manero's Restaurant in Greenwich earlier this month, 188 people showed up, only four of whom had been actively involved in politics before. Sarason D. Liebler, a registered Republican and a public relations professional who describes himself as a co-chairman of the communications committee of the state Perot organization, said the election of the state's independent Governor, Lowell P. Weicker Jr., in 1990 could help the effort.
"In a sense, it did break the ice on people saying, 'Who cares what party it is, we've got to do something,' " he said.
Mr. Weicker has not taken a position on the race, but several officials of the party created for his candidacy are openly pushing for a Perot endorsement.
Those involved in the petition drive headquarters in Dallas and longtime advisers to Mr. Perot say that with the exception of advice about Federal election regulations and state election laws, the groups get little more than names of 800 line callers from the central office. They receive this help from a few paid staff members in the Perot operation.
In the most successful third-party Presidential campaigns of recent years, former Alabama Gov. George Wallace in 1968 collected 358,864 votes in New York or 5.3 percent of the vote. He received 262,187 votes or 9.1 percent of the total vote in New Jersey and 76,650 votes or 6.1 percent of the total in Connecticut. Nationally, Mr. Wallace pulled 13.5 percent of the total.
In 1980, former Representative John Anderson of Illinois pulled 467,801 votes or 7.5 percent of the total in New York, 234,632 votes or 7.9 percent of the total in New Jersey, and 171,807 votes or 12.2 percent of the total in Connecticut. Mr. Anderson garnered the lion's share of the 5,720,000 votes cast for independent candidates nationally. The independent vote was 6.6 percent of the total.
Despite some polls showing him doing far better than this if the election were held today, many observers say it is far too early to tell how Mr. Perot will fare in November.
"My gut feeling is that he'll hurt Clinton more in New Jersey because the Republicans in the state have been on a roll," said Stephen A. Salmore, a professor of political science at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University in New Brunswick and a Republican campaign consultant.
Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., said: "I think there's a general sense that by November he would tend to draw more from the Republican than the Democratic candidate, based on his matching up more closely with Republicans ideologically. The counter argument is that as a challenger, he divides up the challenger vote and cuts into Clinton's effort to be the change agent.
"In New York, I think the picture is unclear about where he would draw. He's somewhere between a curiousity and a candidate. It's still quite a way to governing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Donnelly, standing, said he never became involved in party politics and was swayed to the cause of Ross Perot after hearing him on television several times. He recently planned strategy for Mr. Perot in Manhattan. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); PEROT PETITION COMMITTEE (94%); STATE REPUBLICAN (75%); NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEROT PETITION COMMITTEE (94%); STATE REPUBLICAN (75%); NEW YORK (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VOLUNTEERS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTION LAW (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PETITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; GOTTLIEB, MARTIN; DONNELLY, CHARLES ROSS PEROT (96%); KURT KOENIG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



881 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: 'Fight With Us' Against Military, Ousted Haitian Urges Americans

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Raising a fist in salute to more than 2,500 cheering Haitian students at Brooklyn College, the deposed President of Haiti, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, extolled his faith in the youth of his country yesterday and said he was certain that they would "rally the resistance so that Haiti will become a democratic country once again."
Then, addressing Americans, Father Aristide, whose Government was toppled by the Haitian military last September, said, "We need you to fight with us in the same way we saw Americans fight in Nicaragua." 
 Earlier, in remarks to 200 members of the Baptist Ministers' Conference of Greater New York and Vicinity at the Convent Avenue Baptist Church in Harlem, Father Aristide reportedly called for a stepped-up embargo of Haiti and said he believed that Washington should take stronger action to force the Haitian military to give up its hold on political power.
"He said they have given beautiful statements," said the Rev. V. Simpson Turner, the president of the ministers' conference, referring to the support voiced so far by Washington officials. "But he said what's needed is action."
 
Any Criticism Is Muted
 In a telephone interview yesterday, though, Father Aristide had no criticism of the Bush Administration. He did not believe, he said, that United States or other foreign troops should be sent to Haiti, as some supporters in New York have suggested during his visit here. He said he believed that the Administration was doing everything it could and that he was "sure they will see the result of what they are doing."
The United States cut aid to Haiti and imposed an economic embargo shortly after the Sept. 30 coup. Administration officials said last week that they were considering further steps against the military Government, including tightening the embargo. On May 18, the Foreign Ministers of the Organization of American States are to meet in the Bahamas, with Haiti the most urgent matter on their agenda.
After four days of meetings in New York that went for the first time far beyond talks with Haitian-Americans, Father Aristide is to spend today seeing journalists and members of his government in exile before leaving for Boston on Wednesday.
He came to New York from Washington on a visit of several weeks that journalists and diplomats who follow Caribbean affairs say was partly an effort to insure that the issue of Haiti's political turmoil remains in the public eye.
 
Suggests Internal U.S. Pressure
 Mr. Turner said Father Aristide urged the Baptist ministers to "pressure our Congressmen" and city officials so they would insist that the Bush Administration not relax and begin to accommodate the Haitian military.
Father Aristide began his New York visit with a breakfast Friday with business and labor leaders, then went to City Hall to talk with Mayor David N. Dinkins and members of the City Council.
On Saturday, he drove to a resort in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania to address a regional meeting of the National Association of Black Journalists and that evening attended a $150-a-plate dinner in Queens that was organized to pay for the visit. On Sunday, Father Ariside spoke privately with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and then strode onto a stage in Central Park, where he was cheered by tens of thousands of Haitian exiles.
Speaking of Mr. Cuomo, Mayor Dinkins and of Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat who represents Harlem, Father Aristide said: "Those people are so good by the way they welcome us here. We are proud to be their friends."
Fritz Longchamp, who speaks for Father Aristide's exile government at the United Nations, was at the ousted President's side yesterday. He said the Haitian leader had sought a broader audience on his visit because "there is a sense of urgency in Haiti.
"He wants to go back to Haiti with the full support not only of the U.S. Government," Mr. Longchamp said, "but of the American people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); NICARAGUA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN COLLEGE BUSH ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN COLLEGE BUSH ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); NICARAGUA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COUPS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); CITIES (83%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



882 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Russian, in Western Mode, Makes His Case

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
Seeking billions of dollars to heal its economic ills, Russia presented a smooth young face to the West today, a 36-year-old Deputy Prime Minister full of enthusiasm for free markets.
In his gray suit, light blue shirt and dark tie, Yegor T. Gaidar could have passed for a bureaucrat of any Western European government. With his unwrinkled cheeks and detailed descriptions of how to sell state-owned industries, he offered a clear-cut contrast to his boss, President Boris N. Yeltsin, a rough and bluff politician of an age to be his father. 
 Mr. Gaidar is in Washington to reassure Western aid donors and investors that his country is still loping toward a market economy with him in the saddle of management. While the initial reaction was enthusiastic, some skepticism remained.
"He's a very brave man with a lot of responsibilities," said Land Grant, an export management executive, after hearing Mr. Gaidar speak at breakfast today. "He seems to have every ball in the air at once. I hope they don't all come down on his head."
 
A Full Schedule
 Like any good salesman, Mr. Gaidar used every available hour. Arriving Saturday evening, he sought financial aid for his country Sunday afternoon at a meeting of finance ministers and central bankers of the seven wealthiest industrial democracies, then had dinner with Michel Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund.
He delivered a speech and answered questions this morning at the United States Chamber of Commerce, enthusiastically describing the need to reduce government control over the Russian economy and lure foreign investment. Then he presented his plans to a top policy-making committee of the I.M.F. and met with Louis T. Preston, the president of the World Bank, before dinner at the Russian Embassy with senior European Community officials.
"He really resembles a Western finance minister in the way he presents things," said a European official who heard Mr. Gaidar's statement to the I.M.F. committee.
In his remarks at the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Gaidar repeatedly tried to impress potential investors with how far his country had already come as a way to persuade them that the future would be much better.
"If anybody would half a year ago tell the story that Russian Government will liberalize the prices, cut down drastically subsidies and military spending and increase the taxation, and you'll survive not only politically but physically, it would be greeted as a joke," he said. "Now this joke comes true."
Mr. Gaidar's continued political survival in Moscow has depended partly on his success in impressing Western financial officials, said Dmitri K. Simes, a Russian affairs expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington.
By establishing himself as an international symbol of economic change in Russia, Mr. Gaidar has made it difficult to remove him without shaking the trust of Western leaders and, more important, their willingness to lend, Mr. Simes said.
Senior financial officials who met Mr. Gaidar on this trip were full of more compliments for him. "I would have to say, Mr. Gaidar, as you know, is an enormously convincing person," Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said Sunday night.
 
'He Knows His Numbers'
 An international financial official who met Mr. Gaidar today said the Russian had quickly grasped the many problems facing his country. "He knows his numbers," the official said. "He knows his problems. He thinks in a fairly comprehensive perspective."
But Mr. Gaidar's strongest supporters in the West may be economists, who admire and envy his rise to the top economic policy position late last year from his job as a director of an economics research center in Moscow.
Jeffrey Sachs, the Harvard professor who is now advising the Russian Government, said Mr. Gaidar had surrounded himself with other young, bright economists. "These are intellectual, very top-notch people," Mr. Sachs said, "and half the time you make a point, they say, 'Yes, we know, we know, we know.' And you're not even making an obvious point."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN FINANCIAL PRINTING CO (58%); WESTERN FINANCIAL BANK (58%); WESTERN FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); ENDOWMENTS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TRENDS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; GAIDAR, YEGOR (MIN) YEGOR T GAIDAR (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



883 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrats;
In Pennsylvania, Clinton Is Seeking Solid Victory

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 27

 BODY:
Hoping to follow the trail of Democratic success blazed by Harris Wofford in his come-from-behind victory for the Senate last year, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas ended his final day of campaigning in the Pennsylvania primary by hopscotching across the state in search of blue-collar votes.
The series of rallies began on Sunday in southwestern Pennsylvania, carefully staged for maximum camera appeal and intended to showcase Mr. Clinton as the Democrat who could best motivate and unite his party. 
 But the Arkansas Governor has spent considerable time in the past several days mending divisions within his party. He first had to fend off criticism last week from Pennsylvania's Governor, Robert P. Casey, a Democrat, who questioned Mr. Clinton's chances of defeating President Bush in November.
And then today Mr. Clinton had to contend with another potential brushfire when the Rev. Jesse Jackson was quoted in The New York Daily News as demanding that he be Mr. Clinton's Vice-Presidential choice. Mr. Jackson later tempered his comments.
Such eruptions threatened to overshadow what Mr. Clinton and his aides have seen as their real mission: to use this state's primary campaign as the place to prove that he is a man of integrity who has a message for voters weary of tough economic times.
Pennsylvania, with 169 delegates to the Democratic National Convention, , is one of the biggest prizes of the primary season, and Mr. Clinton is hoping to exceed 50 percent of the vote.
Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts won 67 percent of the primary vote here in 1988 before going on to become the Democratic nominee. But the Republican nominee, Vice President George Bush, won the state in November, with 51 percent of the vote to Mr. Dukakis's 48 percent.
Now, because of Senator Wofford's success in defeating Dick Thornburgh, President Bush's first Attorney General and a former Pennsylvania Governor, in a special election last November, the state is viewed by both parties as an important battleground.
 
Target Is Bush, Not Brown
 Saying that he would "lead a crusade to change the country" if elected, Mr. Clinton has directed his fire exclusively at Mr. Bush while campaigning here, ignoring his only remaining major Democratic rival, former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California.
Mr. Brown also campaigned in Pennsylvania today, but at an Independence Hall rally in Philadelphia he no longer sounded like a candidate.
In what was billed as a major address, Mr. Brown railed against the political establishment. Although he also repeated that he was in the race to stay, the speech was a clear signal that he intended to emphasize his anti-establishment crusade rather than realistically seek the party's nomination.
Mr. Clinton, in a rally at City Hall Plaza here later, borrowed some of the anger that Mr. Brown directs at the political system when he implored voters to go the polls Tuesday.
"Scrap your cynicism," he said. "Get out tomorrow, get your friends and neighbors to vote and take your country back."
linking him to the question raised by Ronald Reagan in 1980 when he asked voters to use a new standard in deciding whether to re-elect President Jimmy Carter.
"Do you remember what that standard was?" Mr. Clinton said at a rally in Steelworkers Plaza in Pittsburgh. "Are you better off today than you were four years ago?"
The crowd responded with a resounding "No!"
Mr. Wofford and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, who dropped out of the Democratic race last month, traveled with Mr. Clinton today, and each took turns exhorting union members who have supported Mr. Harkin and Pennsylvania Democrats who supported Mr. Wofford to vote on Tuesday for Mr. Clinton.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pennsylvania, with 169 national convention delegates, is one of the biggest prizes of the primary season, and Gov. Bill Clinton is hoping to exceed 50 percent of the vote. Mr. Clinton gave his autograph yesterday to 10-year-old Matthew Clark of Mechanicsburg while campaigning in Harrisburg. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Today's Primary: Pennsylvania"
 
Delegates: Dem.: 169 Rep.: 91
Polls close: 8 P.M. Eastern time
Voter registration: Dem.: 2,710,389 Rep: 2,362,748
Who can vote: Only enrolled party members.
Winners in '88 primaries:
Dem.: Michael Dukakis (67% of vote)
Rep.: George Bush (79% of vote)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FIRES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LAWYERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JERRY BROWN (79%); JESSE JACKSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



884 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3608 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Brown's Standard Campaign Speech: A New Vision of America

 BODY:
In his campaign addresses around the country, Edmund G. Brown Jr. rarely reads from a text or notes and his speeches vary considerbly from place to place, but he always focuses on the same themes: the corruption of American politics and his crusade to return control of the nation to "the people."
The former California Governor almost always invokes Thomas Jefferson, and he never forgets to plug his toll-free number for campaign donations, usually drawing good-natured laughter and some of his biggest cheers.
Though he tailors his pitches slightly for labor audiences or other groups, he is unlike most politicians in that he rarely studies up on the details of where he is visiting, and does not often include references to local supporters. 
 Mr. Brown's basic speeches tend to run longer than most Presidential candidates', sometimes more than a half hour. He prefers speaking in generalities, and often tells audiences that he abhors ticking off lists of facts and figures and things he would do in the White House.
Among his best-received lines are when Mr. Brown tells audiences that Mr. Jefferson said the country needed a rebellion every 20 years and that the country is ripe for one now. He also gets a good responses when he pokes fun at the trade pact with Mexico and suggests exporting the Congress to Mexico. He draws laughs when he tells of how people dismiss him as a flake, as Governor Moonbeam.
Sometimes Mr. Brown falls flat. He usually makes fun of fancy fund-raising dinners, saying they eat sherbet and call it "sorbet." The line does not always get much of a response, but he includes it in his speeches anyway.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	 Following are excerpts from the speech that Edmund G. Brown Jr. delivered to the Building and Trades Council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Washington on March 31, as transcribed by the Federal News Service. The content is representative of the standard addresses that Mr. Brown gives around the country in his campaign for President.
 In this election, if I make any point, it's that this is not just some kind of personality contest between Mr. Clinton and myself. It's a question of the identity of the Democratic Party, of who we are, what we want to do, what we represent and our vision of America. And that is the most important question. And the different flurries of questions and stories that come out, we got to get down to the bedrock of what does this party stand for. Who do we represent?
And coming, talking, to a group of people from New York, it's very appropriate to raise the whole question of how did the Democratic Party get started. It got started when a man by the name of Thomas Jefferson went on an expedition along the Hudson River in 1791 with James Madison. And they were very worried about a group of wealthy elites taking over this country, subverting the revolution and putting a new aristocracy in power. That was the Federalists.
And our party's origins stem right from that first battle for the soul of this country, whether we're going to be run by the few, or are we going to be serving the yeoman farmers of the South and the working men of the North. That's how it all began. And Jefferson at that time said that the goal of the Democratic Party was to stop the power of the few from rioting on the labors of the many -- stop the power of the few from rioting on the labors of the many.
And that's still the challenge of this party, because the few have done well, and the many are increasingly suffering -- jobs being exported, wages being driven down and cities being utterly destroyed by neglect and indifference in a country that is the richest in the world, that is generating $6 trillion of gross national product every year, and yet can't seem to find the political will to invest in our own people. And that is the test. Jefferson said something else that is appropriate to this campaign and this election year. He said, "This country needs a rebellion every 20 years." And we haven't had one in 200. And I say it's about time. See, what's happened is people who are running this country have figured out that you can make profit for your shareholders without having American workers. And that's why they -- just as easy -- not just as easy, they'd rather send the job to Mexico, where they can pay two bucks an hour, rather than keep it going in this country. And that is a real threat.
And that's not a trade union issue, that's an American issue. And more and more, as I've gone along in this campaign, I've seen the utter gap between those who make the rules and those who don't; those whose jobs are protected from being exported and those who suffer when business moves its enterprises offshore.
 
'Mortal Threat' of Job Losses
 And when you think about it, the people making the rules, what if, what if somehow you could export the Congress to Mexico? What if? And what if instead of paying them $130,000 a year you pay them $13,000 a year? You think they'd vote for a fast-track then? You bet they wouldn't. And that's the problem, whether it's the media, whether it's the Congress, whether it's the lobbyists or whether it's the investment bankers or the lawyers, they're not afraid of their jobs being exported. That's why they don't get it.
And they don't get the mortal threat to a man or woman that's worked their life only to be standing on an unemployment line for the best years of their life. It's rotten, it's wrong, and anything I can do to stop it, I'm going do that. This is about America, protecting our jobs and our future.
And that's the problem, whether it's the media, whether it's the Congress, whether it's the lobbyists or whether it's the investment bankers or the lawyers: They're not afraid of their jobs being exported. That's why they don't get it.
Now, maybe a few years ago I wouldn't have experienced it in the same way that I do now. But as I've campaigned across this country in Michigan at Willow Run, where thousands of people are looking at unemployment, New York, Connecticut, over the other night in Eau Claire, Wis. I was picked up at the airport by a rubber worker who has been working for 25 years at the Uniroyal plant, a plant that has now been taken over by Michelin and will be closed down in June. I looked at this man, he's 50. I thought to myself, "What's going on here?" This is not an isolated incident.
In state after state, I'm meeting people who have worked their whole lives to build this country and now they're just being forgotten about. And why? Because they're 50 now. They're 55 and they have medical bills. And so management says, "Well, wait a minute, these bills are getting a little high. We can go down to Mexico. We can find some young kids. Their medical costs are lower. They'll work for $2 an hour. You've got a company union. You've got a compliant government. You don't have pollution regulations. You don't have the Davis-Bacon Act. Why not?"
And I say why not because I look at this person, this man, and I saw America in his eyes, in his furrowed brow, in the lines on his face, the wrinkles, the calluses on his hands. That is America. And if we're going to export America to foreign countries, then we're doomed and this election is not just about a bunch of little personalities and sound bites, it's about survival. It's about our way of life and about everything you've fought for. So let's get together and take it back, take it back for your kids. Take it back for your unions. Take it back for our future.
 
Protecting Unionism
 Well, just to go back a little bit before I was elected, the politics of the Brown family started with one pivotal issue. In 1958, my father was running for governor. There was an issue on the ballot, a referendum to establish a right-to-work law. And he ran fighting it; his Republican opponent supported it. And he was elected overwhelmingly in the coalition of trade unionists, Democratic activists this country has seen in the last 40 years. And it was that galvanizing event that brought home to me the power and importance of the trade union movement.

 	 	 		. . .	 	And I've seen these two events -- the beginning of my father's administration when he won, and at the end when Ronald Reagan emerged from his political B movies to the prominence of California. Civil rights, trade union solidarity, the right of representation and with the support of government -- those are two basic principles that I've never forgotten. During my tenure as Governor I was able to sign collective-bargaining bills for local employees, teachers, state workers, in fact, millions of public employees -- state, county, local, school employees. We did it, and I don't think there's ever been a governor in history that brought so many people under collective bargaining.
If you look at the record, California -- you know, if you just compare the record between my opponent and myself, in Arkansas you've got right to work. California -- we've rejected it. Now, in Arkansas you don't have prevailing rates. California, you do. Arkansas -- the Governor there went over to Korea and bragged about the fact that Arkansas had the fifth-lowest rates, wages, in the country. It's a different experience.
In the state of California over two million jobs was created in eight years. Two million. O.K.? And those were public works; those were jobs of all kinds. We accelerated a whole program, particularly in water projects, sewage, infrastructure and all the rest. In fact, if you total up the number of jobs during my administration, they exceed that which George Bush has been able to create in four years for the whole nation. And you can throw in anything Clinton did in Arkansas and you still wouldn't come close to the 2.2 million jobs we created in California. And that's what we're talking about. Is this a country that's going to work to put Americans to work or not?

 	 	 		. . .	 	You know, they couldn't get 50 votes to break down the so-called wall between the Pentagon budget and the civilian budget. While American people are out of work, they're still fighting to protect a Pentagon budget that's spending tens of billions of dollars in Europe. And you know what they're doing? We're spending money to defend the Germans; the Germans are paying the Russians to house and feed and clothe the Russians. So it turns out your jobs are killed so we can pay money to pay soldiers to defend Germans who are paying Russians against whom we're defending them in the first place.
You know, we've got 35,000 troops in Japan. Do you know who we're defending Japan against, by the way? Who? Tell me. Do you know? Us.

 	 	 		. . .	 	 This isn't about me, and I'm trying to say that. Look, I'm a politician. I was in this business. I've raised more money than Bill Clinton ever did. I acknowledge that. I know how the system works. I won't tell you who wouldn't -- well, that's another story. But I can tell you more stories than all the rest of them.
But what I want to say is, I'm standing with you. I'm standing with the trade union movement, with students, with environmentalists, with pensioners, with African Americans, Latinos. I want this to be a candidacy, a cause, a movement to shift the direction in this country. And that's what I want. I want to be the proxy for all of you. I want to be the voice of those whose voices are being ignored. I want to be your lawyer and your lobbyist and your insider so we can turn this country around.
And that's what the election's about: Who are we and where are we going? Are we going to be macho policemen to take care of all the disputes all over this planet, or are we going to come back home to New York City and Buffalo and Los Angeles and Detroit and clean up the mess by putting people to work? It's just that simple, and we can do it. But we're not going to do it unless we get a real change. That's what you've got to do.
Now, you know, that's what's so amazing to me. We're in a $6 trillion economy -- $6 trillion. And people are saying, "Well, where's the money? Where is the money?"
Well, just last year, Bush was able to forgive a $7 billion loan to Egypt -- $7 billion of loans. I mean, you can think of all the small businesses, all the cities that could desperately need that. You know, I mean, they're not getting it.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Anti-Drug Failures
 You know, crack was invented in the 80's. You know that, don't you? It was invented under Reagan and Bush. They didn't have it before then. That's when -- you know, you've heard about supply-side economics. You've heard about deregulating cocaine. That's what crack is.
Now, seriously, they had this guy -- there were two people. You had Bush, who was picked out by Reagan to keep the stuff out, and Noriega was on the payroll to bring it in. Now, who did a better job? Yeah. I mean, in his zeal to get at the contras, the Reagan-Bush Administration was willing to look the other way about the activities of Noriega. Now, they're putting him on trial, and to get him, they're going to have to give leniency to a bigger drug kingpin.
Ten billion dollars in the anti-drug war. The biggest housing program in America is now prison-building. Prison-building, that's the new public housing, other than housing for Bush and Quayle. You know, they're in public housing, too.

 	 	 		. . .	 	If you can build a B-2 bomber, you can build a B-2 bullet train and all the infrastructure needed. And you don't need to have roads and bridges that are falling apart. You can take the people who are out of work and put them to work. And if we start going on what this country needs in energy efficiency and high-speed trains and retrofitting buildings and housing and all the other stuff that's been neglected for 20 years, we can have full employment. We have the money; we just don't have the political will. And this election is about galvanizing that political will.
It's a great contest. You know, a few months ago they said, "Hey, Brown, you can't do this. You don't have the money. You don't have the money."
Yeah, 1-800----. You think I'm going to say it now. Even President Bush has got to talk about it. They've even got a joke about it. Doonesbury put 1-800 in, and the calls were ringing around the weekend, 24 hours a day.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
An Insider's Disillusion
 I've been at it longer than anybody else. I started back in 1976. So I know a few things about how the process works. I've won several primaries then. And I came back and I saw as leader of the party in California -- I mean, I saw the thing wasn't working, because we're spending all our time with the top 1 percent trying to pick up those thousand-dollar checks in big bundles to then try to manipulate and enroll a disappearing constituency. People were running away from us as fast as we can catch up with them. And I can tell you after two years of going to power breakfast, power lunch, power dinner with the same elite, it doesn't work.

 	 	 		. . .	 	It doesn't work if you're going to the power of the few to attempt to save and serve the majority. And that's why the majority of young kids are not identifying with the Democratic Party. That's why in New York almost 70 percent of the people didn't vote in the last Presidential election who could have.
I mean, the whole system is rigged against the kind of activism and participation which alone will revitalize the trade union movement. And this is now a matter of crisis. It's a crisis for the country. It's a crisis for you. We're going to have either low wages, low productivity or high wages, high productivity.
And in Germany the average factory wage is $22.50 an hour. They have health care for everyone. O.K. And they have a very strong unionized work force because there's participation, there's a commitment to modernization, and a commitment to jobs and they can compete. And they don't let their wages get pushed down by cheap labor.
As a matter of fact, they're exporting more cars to Japan. They're exporting more as a percentage. And yet they can protect their wage structure. They protect it because they have a social compact. They don't let the market be the closest dictator. Whenever the market says we're going to stand around, and -- O.K..
Well, if you let the market dictate everything, you won't pay anybody anything. Slave labor is probably as efficient as you can find. And it's only when you can stand between unbridled profit and the humanity of those you represent that we can get anything done. And that's called a trade union movement. That's called the representation. It's giving power to the powerless. It's called solidarity. And I recognize it, I support it and I stand with you.
 
Bringing People Back
 Nothing's going to happen until we can bring millions of people back into the process. And that's precisely what's happening in my campaign. In Maine, in Colorado, in Connecticut, people came in and started voting who had never voted before. In Maine two-thirds of the people showed up at the caucuses who had never been to a caucus before.
And if we're going to win in November, you can't present some kind of watered-down, neo-conservative something or other. You have to appeal to people. You have to reach out and say, 'Look, this country is for you. This election is going to make a difference." You have Bush on one side, you have a privileged character who would rather play golf than invest in this country, who cares more about Egypt than he cares about New York City. And you've got to bring people in, in a sense they can control it.
And this idea of limiting the campaign to $100. I thought long and hard about it, because I certainly raised it the old-fashioned way before. And I really believed that if we could just get the cause clear and be honest about it, that people would come. And the first week, you know, what did we do, we get a few hundred people to contribute and then a few thousand and then tens of thousands till now over $5 million has been pledged through that "800" number. That's people saying, "Hey, I want the government back." And that's what we call a movement, we call a cause. It's a coalition.

 	 	 		. . .	 	There is a mood out there: It's angry. And if we could just unite the workers who are losing their jobs because the greedy elite on Wall Street doesn't give a darn, and we could unite that with trade unionists who are out of work, with blacks who have never had a chance, with Latinos, with students who think the whole thing is a big rip-off and a joke, now you're talking about something, because we're looking at a country where half the people have seceded.
Back in the time of the Civil War, Lincoln defined the struggle as the necessity of proving popular government's not an absurdity. At that time a third of the people had pulled out, had seceded by states.
Today, half the people have pulled out. It's the same test. Is government of the people -- is it absurd, or is it real? Well, if it's real, it's got to work for people. If it's got to work for people, they got to have jobs. And when you can spend money to bail out an S.& L., when you can spend money to take care of yourself and your perks and all the rest of it and forget about your own people, I say it's time to make a change.
I say it's time for a wakeup call. We have the money. We have the capacity. We have the unmet needs. Just look at the bridges and the roads and the lack of efficiency, the lack of health care. We can do it. I mean, in Canada they've got a health-care program that covers everybody.

 	 	 		. . .	 	It's the political will to recognize the cold war is over, that America is being pulled apart, and that millions and millions are in despair and hopelessness because they can't support their families. And I come from a Catholic social tradition that says every person is worthy of their hire, they're worthy of earning a living family wage.

 	 	 		. . .	 	I say wake up. The battle is right here, and it's not incoming missiles, it's incoming inequality. And jobs and unemployment. We can do it. This is a coalition. It's a coalition like you haven't seen before. I'm appearing in union halls that are packed shoulder to shoulder, with students, with environmentalists, with trade unionists, building trades, C.I.O. unions, everything.
This is a spark that is -- that -- it's much bigger than myself. I mean, it isn't because of me, I've got too much -- you know, you know all the stories -- Moonbeam, and Flake, and all the other stuff -- isn't me, I want you to understand that. It's you, and it's the American people having a sense -- hey, it could be different.
And remember after World War II what happened. People were saying, "Hey, we're going to have a depression. It's terrible." We didn't. What did we do? Two things: we sent the G.I.'s to school, not making them borrow money so they were going to be in debt 25 years. We gave them the money, and we built the most prosperous country, and then we created an Interstate highway system and spent hundreds of billions. All right. The cold war is over. We spent our $12 trillion, and now let's go to work to make this country flourish again in the same way we did after World War II. We can do it, take it back, we the people, we the trade unionists, fight 1430, fight right to work. We can do it.
Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edmund G. Brown Jr. speaking in Manhattan earlier this month. His campaign speech centers on the corruption of American politics and his crusade to return the nation to "the people." He never forgets to plug his toll-free number for campaign donations. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (52%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR) JERRY BROWN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



885 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. and World Bank: Lenders to the Nations

BYLINE: By CAROLINE RAND HERRON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are products of the Bretton Woods monetary conference, held in New Hampshire in 1944. The meeting was called to supervise a fixed exchange rate system and help industrialized countries emerging from World War II cope with trade and capital imbalances.
The monetary fund started with 39 countries -- excluding the Soviet Union, which declined repeated invitations to join. Dominated by industrialized nations, the fund helps developing countries draw up and carry out large-scale economic reforms aimed at growth without inflation. It often provides loans along the way to help them in this painful process, which often involves cutting government food and energy subsidies that help the poor. 
 Left-of-center critics say the I.M.F.'s prescriptions help countries pay their international debt but hurt their long-term health. Right-of-center analysts fault the institution for an emphasis on central planning rather than economic growth.
The World Bank, the sister organization of the fund, has the same membership. It is typically involved in more narrowly focused programs than the fund, helping countries develop their transportation, health and education systems and their private sectors.
The bank is made up of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and its affiliate, the International Development Association, which makes low-interest loans to the poorest countries. Two other affiliates are the International Finance Corporation, which lends to private companies in developing nations, and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, which assists foreign investment in poor countries.
In a nutshell, the monetary fund works at stabilizing economies, while the World Bank works at developing them long term.
Once various formalities involving the 14 former Soviet republics are complete, the monetary fund will have 170 members, which contribute money to it under a formula based on their economic output. The United States provides nearly a fifth of the financing for the monetary fund and the World Bank. Membership in the fund is required for joining the World Bank and for assistance from the two organizations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (96%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (82%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (55%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (54%); MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (96%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (82%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (55%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (54%); MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (97%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: HERRON, CAROLINE RAND

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



886 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Forest Service May Alter Rule Blocking Logging

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
As part of an election-year assault on regulations that it says are choking economic recovery, the Bush Administration has proposed limiting a rule that environmentalists have used to block logging on millions of acres of national forests.
Under the 85-year-old rule, members of the public have been able to delay or stop timber sales simply by mailing written critiques about the probable environmental harm of the logging to the United States Forest Service within 45 days after the service has put the timber on the market. The rule requires the Forest Service to respond to the challenges within 115 days by rejecting the challenge, changing the terms of the sale or withdrawing the timber from the market. 
 In place of these challenges, called administrative appeals, the Administration wants to set up a procedure by which the public could comment on Forest Service plans before timber is offered for sale. Once the sale was offered, the only recourse left to opponents of the plans would be to take the Government to court.
 
Rule Could Deter Challenges
 That is likely to deter challenges by small environmental groups that make a majority of the appeals. They said lawsuits were more difficult, more expensive and without a court injunction would not delay the sale. Currently, fewer than 1 percent of challenges go on to court after the 115-day review period.
The Administration said it was making the proposal because the number of challenges to commercial timber sales had climbed to 636 in 1991 from 133 in 1987. The amount of timber affected by the appeals has risen to 1.79 billion board feet, or 31 percent of the timber sold last year, from 633 million board feet, or less than 7 percent of all Federal timber sold in 1986.
A public comment period ends today for the proposal to change the logging rule, made by the Department of Agriculture under a broad review of regulations President Bush ordered in the State of the Union Message. In ordering the review, Mr. Bush directed agencies to stop issuing new rules and to review existing regulations with an eye toward reducing the costs to business. The moratorium on new rules ends Wednesday, but in a speech scheduled for that afternoon at the White House, the President is expected to extend it.
 
Moratorium Is Criticized
 Critics of the moratorium have criticized it, saying it is a moratorium in name only, as the Administration goes ahead and adopts new rules it likes but blocks others.
But most public comments on the new rule were positive, and the Administration has the authority to issue the new regulation later this year.
The proposal is the latest political thrust by the Administration into a slashing fight between the timber industry and community environmental groups in the West and South over how much of the nation's last great stands of spruce, fir and Ponderosa pine will be cut.
The nation's 155 national forests, covering 191 million acres in 44 states, provide roughly a third of the timber used in home construction. Timber shortages have to the closing of sawmills across the country and thrown thousands of loggers and mill workers out of work, the Forest Service and timber industry executives say
The shortage has also worried the White House because it has raised lumber prices this month to record levels. The White House says higher lumber costs have slowed construction of new homes, which has historically led the nation out of recessions. The cost of lumber, which typically accounts for just under 10 percent of a new home's cost, has climbed by 40 percent since January, according to industry figures.
"There is ample opportunity for public input under all our environmental statutes," said Michael Deland, chairman of the President's Council on Environmental Quality, a White House agency that helps set policy, in an interview last Wednesday. "But in some instances we feel there are duplications that have led to long delays. The fact is that in administrative appeals there is an opportunity for giving any citizen the right to tie up projects for an interminable period."
Forest Service officials and timber industry executives say the new comment procedure would give the public more opportunity to influence decisions because citizens could get involved during the planning of a timber sale.
The Government argues that the change will eliminate last-minute appeals and insure a steadier supply of wood. Timber companies, sawmill operators and thousands of industry workers say that because of the ease of challenging timber sales, environmentalists are abusing the process and unnecessarily delaying or halting logging in the national forests.
"Innocent, hard-working people and communities have been badly hurt by the actions of a few extremist appellants that happen to be well-organized, own computers equipped with modems and have a good supply of envelopes and 29-cent stamps," said Bob Boeh, a resident of Whitefish, Mont., who wrote one of the 6,000 comments on the proposed rule change that the Forest Service has received.
 
Town Fears for Sawmill
 One of the communities that is most enthusiastic about the proposal is Panguitch, Utah. The tiny town is almost wholly dependent on timber from the Dixie National Forest in southern Utah for employment and tax revenue. Loggers in the region feed the voracious timber appetite of a sawmill in town, and schools and roads are supported by tax revenue the Government returns to Garfield County from timber sold in the national forest.
School teachers, loggers, and sawmill workers blame appeals of timber sales for closing a Garfield County mill in Escalante about 45 miles southeast of Panguitch, throwing 70 people out of work. They said in letters to the Forest Service in support of the President's proposal that shortages of timber caused by appeals was also threatening the mill in Panguitch.
"Finally I can see hope in the future for my job and my family," said Wallace R. Veater, a forester in Panguitch, said in one letter. "Thank you for listening to the silent majority on this issue and for using common sense in keeping this nation alive and strong by keeping the working people working."
But environmentalists, particularly those belonging to small community and state groups, say the appeals process has proved to be the most effective means available to the public not only for slowing the Government's aggressive cutting in the national forests, but also for saving millions of acres of virgin forests. A study this month by the Congressional Research Service found that in a third of the challenges last year critics demonstrated that the timber sales would cause severe ecological damage, causing the Forest Service to withdraw or reconsider the sales.
 
'It's a Joke'
 Critics of the agency, including some agency employees, have said in Congressional hearings that the Forest Service, which provides an opportunity to comment on timber sales before the appeals process, routinely ignores the earlier public comment. Critics say that is why the appeals process is so important.
"The appeals process was one of the most effective ways for grass-roots groups to make the Forest Service reconsider its plans for cutting tracts that would destroy habitat for grizzlies, or ruin a salmon stream," said Jeffrey St. Clair, editor of Forest Watch magazine, a monthly environmental journal in Portland, Ore., that focuses on national forest issues. "The Forest Service says that after this rule is final, if anybody has a problem they can go to court. It's a joke. Most grass-roots groups can't afford a lawyer."
No type of regulation has come under more scrutiny than those to safeguard the environment. President Bush is attacking environmental rules with a fervor not seen in Washington since the earliest days of the Reagan Administration. The Administration has also proposed opening half the nation's wetlands to development and supported efforts by property owners to require the Government to pay for lands restricted by environmental regulations to protect wildlife and water.
In recent months, the Administration has backed the coal industry's efforts to dismantle the nation's strip mining law, proposed weakening the hazardous waste law, and altered enforcement rules for the 1990 Clean Air Act, reducing its effectiveness.
Mr. Deland and other Administration officials say the modification of environmental rules is a completely reasonable response to excessive regulations that are raising costs, choking businesses and interfering in the lives of ordinary citizens. Environmental leaders say the price that the nation will eventually pay for the President's deregulation drive is degraded lands and dirtier air and water.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The links between the environment and the economy become more sensitive in an election year. The Bush Administration is trying to ease a rule that has blocked logging on millions of acres of national forests. On Washington's Olympia Peninsula, trees have been clear-cut. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (US) FOREST SERVICE (91%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (US) FOREST SERVICE (94%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



887 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Legislators to Vote On County Building Deal

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, L.I., April 27

 BODY:
Strapped for cash, Suffolk County is hoping to get a quick infusion of funds by selling its most prominent government building to a newly created public trust, which would then lease it back to the county.
While such a deal may sound like a one-shot gimmick, most Democrats and Republicans, as well as municipal-bond rating experts, say they can support the concept, which has been used at the state and county level from New York to California. 
 The sale-leaseback plan is the cornerstone of a finance bill proposed by the Suffolk County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney, to help fill a $78 million gap in the county's $1.3 billion budget for the current year. The County Legislature is to meet in special session on Tuesday afternoon to consider the measure. Mr. Gaffney, a Republican, expects it to win approval with the help of the Republican majority.
Under the plan, the county would sell the 12-story H. Lee Dennison Building, where Mr. Gaffney has his offices, for an estimated $25 million, then lease it back as the main tenant.
 
Renovations Needed
 Charles K. Stein, the deputy county executive for finance, said the transaction would not be a sale in a traditional sense, but "something like a glorified equity loan."
The county would set up an entity called a "grantor trust," which would sell tax-exempt bonds called certificates of participation to finance the purchase, he said. The county would then sign a lease with the trust, with payments equal to the debt service on the bonds. After 20 to 30 years, ownership would revert to the county.
Mr. Stein said the county was awaiting the results of an appraisal of the property, which he said needed some renovation work.
 
'Fingers Crossed'
 Tim Ryan, a spokesman for Mr. Gaffney, said today that the County Executive had received "several inquiries" from investors interested in the bond sale since Mr. Gaffney outlined the sale-lease idea in his first State of the County message in February. "We've got our fingers crossed that everything will go well when the Legislature votes on this," he said.
But not everyone favors the idea. William Greiner, president of the real-estate firm of Greiner-Maltz, said, "It's just another way of borrowing money and putting a building up for collateral."
He warned that "it will be expensive money," adding, "This can only mean an extra burden on the taxpayers in the long run, just to get some immediate dollars."
 
Credit Agencies Watching
 The Dennison building was named for Suffolk's first county executive. Itcost $16 million to build and opened in 1973. It now houses courtrooms, the offices of the District Attorney and County Executive and the departments of audit and control and economic development and planning.
Mr. Stein said that under Mr. Gaffney's plan, the health and social services departments would also move into the building, and the money they now pay for rent would be used to help pay off the bonds.
Mr. Gaffney hopes approval of the financial package will assure Wall Street that Suffolk bonds are a good investment. The major bond-rating agencies have placed Suffolk on their credit-watch list. Kenneth Kurtz, an assistant vice president at Moody's Investors Service, said today that Moody's would not revise its bond rating for Suffolk just because of the sale-leaseback arrangement.
"We would look at it not so much for being a sale-leaseback, but as a form of deficit financing, a way of getting some funds right now and borrowing to do it, but realizing that it will impose costs in the future," he said.
"A key element of our rating is the overall budget-balance plan," Mr. Kurtz said. "Deficit financing can be appropriate if reasonable and tied to other actions that restore an ongoing balance."
 
Sale of Attica
 Nassau, also pressed for revenue, is closely watching the outcome of the Dennison building proposal.
Similar sale-leaseback deals are being used in counties in California and Ohio, said Arthur J. Kremer, a senior partner in the law firm of Rivkin Radler & Kremer in Uniondale.
Mr. Kremer, a former Democratic Assemblyman from Long Beach, said the revenue-raising practice was also being used at the state level, including in New York. For example, he said, the state sold its correctional center at Attica to the state's Urban Development Corporation last year for $212 million, then leased it back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BUILDINGS; OFFICES; RENTING AND LEASING; SALES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS COUNTIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TAX LAW (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (63%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T TIM RYAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



888 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Maytag's President To Add Chief's Title

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
The Maytag Corporation said yesterday that it would name Leonard A. Hadley chief executive at today's annual meeting, adding to his current responsibilities of president and chief operating officer. He will replace Daniel J. Krumm, 65 years old, who is retiring as chief executive but will remain chairman.
Mr. Hadley, 57, has spent 33 years with Maytag. He has shepherded the corporation through some tumultuous acquisitions, after heading a task force in the late 1970's to plan the company's long-term strategy. That panel recommended a series of acquisitions to overcome the slow growth Maytag was facing in a mature home appliance industry. 
 During the 1980's, Maytag scooped up the likes of Jenn-Air, Magic Chef and Hoover, bringing change to a conservative corporate culture that had been shaped through decades of narrowly focusing on laundry equipment and dish washers. "The acquisitions at the time, given the culture, were certainly big news," Mr. Hadley recalled in a telephone interview yesterday from the company's headquarters in Newton, Iowa.
Mr. Hadley will face stiff competition in the appliance business, an industry in which sales have declined each year since 1988 and lower prices have put pressure on profits.
Mr. Hadley is banking on several changes to improve the fortunes of Maytag, which last year earned $79 million on sales of $2.97 billion, down from profits of $98.9 million on sales of $3.05 billion in 1990. Its net income rose nearly 90 percent in the first quarter, to $28.5 million on sales of $753.2 million.
Mr. Hadley said demographic trends suggested that the company's sales of higher-priced, upscale models of dishwashers, ovens and other major appliances would increase in the future. The company is investing $160 million this year, in addition to $143 milllion last year, in new plants and other capital improvements to build new models.
Mr. Hadley said, however, that he had seen little of the rise in orders that would point to an improving economy. "It's better, but it's not thrilling," he said.
Mr. Hadley joined Maytag as a cost accountant in 1959 and held a series of financial posts before being named assistant controller in 1975. He was elected vice president of corporate planning in 1979, and president of the Maytag Company unit in 1986. He was promoted to executive vice president of the corporation in 1989, when he became head of the appliance group. He was named chief operating officer in March 1990, and was elected president and chief operating officer last year.
Mr. Hadley received an accounting degree from the University of Iowa in 1958. He and his wife, Corine, have a son and daughter, and live in Newton.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard A. Hadley, Maytag Corporation (Maytag Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MAYTAG CORP WHIRLPOOL CORP (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAYTAG CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); TRENDS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; HADLEY, LEONARD A; KRUMM, DANIEL J LEONARD A HADLEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



889 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Compaq Profit Fell 60.3% in Quarter

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 27

 BODY:
The Compaq Computer Corporation said today that its first-quarter earnings fell 60.3 percent from a year ago, and blamed a price war in the computer business for the poor results.
The news surprised Wall Street, and Compaq's shares tumbled $3.375, to $23.75, in active trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The Houston-based personal computer maker said it earned $45.3 million, or 53 cents a share, down from $114.3 million, or $1.26 a share, in the first quarter of 1991.
Compaq said lower prices for computer products were the primary reason for the drop in earnings.
"Our financial results for the remainder of the year will continue to be influenced by aggressive pricing and increased expenses," Eckhard Pfeiffer, the company's president and chief executive officer, said.
He cited an ambitious advertising schedule, the planned introduction of new products late in the second and third quarters, and expansion of distribution.
"We are unlikely to see the positive impact of our plans on earnings before the fourth quarter," Mr. Pfeiffer added.
First-quarter sales fell to $783 million, from $971 million a year earlier.
Personal computer makers have been engaged in a price war for the last year, which has hurt profitability as they have fought for buyers in a tough economy.
Eric Zimits, an analyst with William Woodruff & Company, said that even if Compaq's earnings improved in the fourth quarter, "It's not clear they'll have positive earnings year-to-year by then."
The company, known for putting out high-quality products, embarked on a new strategy last year when it laid off 1,400 workers, accepted the resignation of its president and founder Joseph (Rod) Canion and said it would begin offering lower-cost computers. But some analysts predict the company would have problems differentiating itself from its low-priced competitors.
Compaq, under the leadership of Mr. Pfeiffer, plans to introduce a new group of low-cost computers in June, backed by a $20 million advertising campaign.
Compaq is expected to benefit to some extent from its name, but perhaps not as much as was once predicted because "the value of a name brand in a PC system has diminished to the point where just matching price and features isn't necessarily going to put Compaq back in a leadership position," Mr. Zimits said.
That likelihood, combined with lower margins caused by the company's low-price strategy, means that Compaq is not likely to return to its days as a high-flying Wall Street darling with 30 percent earnings, said Brandy Brandon, a Duff & Phelps analyst.
"The dynamics of the industry just won't permit it," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BRANDING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



890 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: The Downfall of a Merchant of the Old School

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
After R. H. Macy & Company filed for bankruptcy protection in January, Edward S. Finkelstein vowed repeatedly that he would remain at the helm of the big retailer during its climb out of bankruptcy. The way back promised to be a difficult couple of years, but only last week the 67-year-old Macy chairman sounded like his old ebullient, optimistic self.
In an interview with his favorite trade publication, Women's Wear Daily, Mr. Finkelstein delivered a relentlessly upbeat assessment. Macy's inventory levels, he explained, were about normal -- "right on plan" -- and the merchandise offerings were "much more current and fresh."
 
No Surprise to Analysts
 
 "We're entering a period of stability," he declared. "The bleeding has stopped."
But the bloodletting in the Macy executive suite had not. Yesterday's announcement that Mr. Finkelstein would step down immediately as chairman and chief executive of Macy came as no surprise to retailing analysts who doubted that he would be the best man to guide the troubled chain out of bankruptcy.
To be sure, in an earlier decade his imagination and flair had rejuvenated a dowdy department store that was an also-ran in San Francisco, and he had later sparked a revival at Herald Square in Manhattan.
"Ed Finkelstein is a brilliant department store merchant, but one of the old school," said Kurt Barnard, a consultant. "He's not a modern, high-tech manager. He had to go."
He was a master merchandiser, analysts agreed, but he was also an autocratic manager who too often ran Macy as a corporate fief, hidebound and insular. In the end, he was undone -- personally and professionally -- by his outmoded management style and a vision for expansion that turned the company into a debt-laden debacle.
To recover, Macy must get in line with some of the best department store retailers in America by aggressively adopting the modern retailing regimen of tighter financial and inventory controls, linked by computers, to improve efficiency and regain profitability. And Mr. Finkelstein seems a man from another era.
"The day of the merchant prince in retailing is rapidly drawing to a close," said Louis W. Stern, a marketing professor at the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University.
Of course, Mr. Stern said, there are successful retail operations that have been controlled by a single personality guided by a marketing vision, with the most noteworthy example being Sam Walton and his Wal-Mart Stores Inc. But in a case like Wal-Mart, Mr. Stern noted, the success stories have come when a company harnessed the latest retailing technology to a shrewd marketing concept.
Despite the setbacks of recent years, Mr. Finkelstein had an extraordinary run of success for most of his 43-year career at Macy. Even his critics concede that to some degree the inbred corporate culture that prevented Macy management from spotting warning signals in later years was a byproduct of Mr. Finkelstein's long winning streak. The boss had been right in the past, so his judgment went unquestioned.
"He surrounded himself with yes-men and believed his own rhetoric," said Alan Millstein, editor of Fashion Network Report, a garment industry newsletter. "But he was insulated partly by his past successes."
Since he joined Macy in 1948, after earning an M.B.A. from Harvard, Mr. Finkelstein had showed a flair for marketing. In 1969, he was named president of Macy's California and quickly proceeded to overhaul the division's merchandising and image so its stores catered to a more affluent, stylish clientele. One innovation was establishing the basement of Macy's San Francisco store as "the Cellar," a cheery mart filled with the latest in housewares.
On the heels of his success in California, Mr. Finkelstein was appointed president of Macy's New York in 1974, where he engineered an even more impressive overhaul of the once-drab flagship store on 34th Street. Having shown his mettle with the retailer's showcase store, Mr. Finkelstein was named Macy chairman and chief executive in 1980.
But Mr. Finkelstein's sure hand deserted him during the 1980's, and Macy lost its way as much on Wall Street as on its sales floors. For it was Mr. Finkelstein's grand vision of a retailing empire built with acquisitions of prestige department stories like I. Magnin and Bullock's -- all backed with a mountain of debt -- that led to Macy's undoing.
Of course, the recession and the slump in consumer spending clearly magnified the problems at Macy. But the cash squeeze that pushed Macy into Chapter 11 bankruptcy earlier this year was the result of Mr. Finkelstein's overly ambitious strategy.
The $3.6 billion leveraged buyout in 1986, led by Mr. Finkelstein, placed a considerable debt burden on the company. Yet the larger mistake, according to analysts, was paying $1.1 billion for I. Magnin and Bullock's in 1988, sharply increasing Macy's debt burden just as the economy softened.
"That really stretched him too far," said Walter F. Loeb, a consultant and former Macy manager.
For his part, Mr. Finkelstein had a lucrative career at Macy, but not nearly as lucrative as it might have been had the 1986 buyout worked as planned, instead of collapsing into bankruptcy. The projected payoff for the $4.4 million Mr. Finkelstein personally invested in the buyout was as much as $375 million, if Macy had been sold to the public according to plan sometime in the 1990's.
Now, that bet is lost. Still, at $68 a share, the buyout price, Mr. Finkelstein received an estimated $9.75 million for his 143,460 shares in 1986. And for years, he was one of the highest-paid executives in retailing, making $1.1 million last year. He will be a consultant to Macy and he will presumably receive a severance payment as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: M (NYSE) (98%); WMT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY, R H, & CO INC MACY'S INC (98%); WAL-MART STORES INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INVENTORIES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; FINKELSTEIN, EDWARD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



891 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Declines Abroad But Is Mostly Up in the U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar weakened abroad yesterday after the finance ministers of the world's industrialized nations called the Japanese yen undervalued, but it overcame much of the selling pressure and ended mostly higher in domestic trading.
Gold prices eased slightly. At the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery fetched $336.60 an ounce, off 30 cents from the previous session. At the Republic National Bank in New York, gold was later quoted at $336 an ounce, also off 30 cents from the same time in the previous session. 
 Currency brokers said the principal bit of news moving the market came late Sunday, when finance emissaries of the so-called Group of Seven industrialized nations meeting in Washington urged Japan to stimulate its economy and concluded that the yen's recent weakness was hurting Japan's trading partners.
A more expensive yen would make Japan's products more costly overseas, helping the competitiveness of rival producers.
 
Remains Lower Against the Yen
 The communique from the seven nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Germany, Japan and the United States -- initially pushed the dollar down around the world, as traders reasoned that the yen would rise, at least temporarily, in response. The dollar later rebounded against other currencies but still remained somewhat weaker relative to the yen.
Zlatko Glamuzina, a senior trader for the Banco di Sicilia's New York office, said that "the dollar did surprisingly well" for the first day after the announcement.
Currency traders said much of the dollar's resilience focused on the mark, despite significantly higher interest rates in Germany. They said the situation reflected investor unease over the stability of the German economy. The latest German crisis is a public employees' strike that has crippled public transportation in many German cities.
"People are concerned about the German economy in general," said John McCarthy, manager of foreign exchange trading at the New York branch of ABN-AMRO bank of the Netherlands. "The dollar is holding its own."
In Tokyo the dollar fell 1 yen to close at 133.65 yen. Later, in London it was quoted at 133.05 yen. By the time trading concluded in New York, the dollar fetched 132.85 yen, down from 134.45 yen late Friday.
In London the British pound rose to $1.7795, from $1.7715 late Friday. Later in New York the pound fetched $1.7775, slightly more expensive than its $1.7750 exchange rate late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday, were: 1.6540 marks, up from 1.6500; 1.5235 Swiss franks, up from 1.5295; 1.1972 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1861; 5.5775 French francs, up from 5.5715, and 1,245.00 Italian lire, up from 1,241.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (95%); GERMANY (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); BANCO DI SICILIA SPA (54%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (95%); GERMANY (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BRITISH POUND (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (63%); STRIKES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



892 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Patterns

BYLINE: By Woody Hochswender

 BODY:

Fashionable Molecules
Close your eyes and breathe deeply. Think pretty thoughts. And have your credit card ready.
Origins, a new freestanding cosmetics store of Estee Lauder, officially opened for business yesterday at 402 West Broadway, at the corner of Spring Street. The shop features cosmetics for both "inner and outer beauty," in a setting with lots of marble, no tropical hardwoods. It represents a move by a major cosmetics company outside the traditional channels of retail sales, namely department stores, whose main-floor selling areas have become vaporized battlegrounds for consumer dollars. 
 None of that fragrance frenzy here. The best-selling of the Origins products, Estee Lauder executives said, are "Peace of Mind," a minty lotion applied to the temples, and "Open Mind," an orange-and-anise inhalation that is diffused in a room, like incense. Such inhalations will "rid your air of foul foes," according to a press release. "Within five minutes a normal-sized room is saturated with beneficial molecules."
There are also plant spirits, honey elixirs and "environmentally responsible accessories" (cotton T-shirts, vegetable-straw brushes, etc.) designed to promote "total well being."
And you don't even have to say "Om" or anything.
 
Designer Politics
 This is an election year. So for a video presentation shown last week to the Fashion Group International, an organization of executive women, several leading designers were asked two questions: What would you do if you were President? And what would you do to help the fashion business?
In the video, Geoffrey Beene said he would support more exposure of American designers overseas. Christian Francis Roth called for the building of a fashion industry center in New York, with a park where designers could lunch. Marc Jacobs said he would make Elizabeth Saltzman, a fashion editor at Vogue, First Lady.
While noting that the idea of being President was "totally foreign" to him, Isaac Mizrahi warmed to the subject. "If I were President, I would make my whole Cabinet women and all the senators women," Mr. Mizrahi said. As to improving the fashion economy, he said, "I would make the men print more money and give it out on the street. Wouldn't that encourage spending?"
In stores, he "would change the lighting entirely," he said. "It's always incredibly unpleasant.
"Smoking would be allowed, for sure. How do you decide to buy a $3,000 cashmere jacket without a smoke?"
Dial 1 (800) Mizrahi.
 
Fashion Follies
 The Fashion Group International is also planning to bring Seventh Avenue designers to the Broadway stage for "Fashion Follies," a musical performance at the St. James Theater on Nov. 9 as part of its annual Night of Stars fund-raiser.
The evening will incorporate more than a dozen musical numbers performed by stars and designers, with each act followed by a short vaudeville routine, like a dog or magic act, said Robert O'Rourke, who is the executive producer of the show.
A chorus of 50 nonprofessional dancers will be selected at an open call at the Supper Club, at 240 West 47th Street, on June 7, when employees of fashion businesses may sing and dance their hearts out.
 
A Harper's Hiring
 Harper's Bazaar is expected to announce today the appointment of Tonne Goodman, a former vice president of advertising at Calvin Klein, as a fashion director. Ms. Goodman would have the same title as Paul Cavaco, who was hired last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (92%); FASHION GROUP (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES FASHION GROUP (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COSMETICS; ORIGINS (STORE) (NYC) COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); COSMETICS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); THEATER (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); RETAILERS (78%); TOILETRIES MFG (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); WOMEN (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); POLITICS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); FUNDRAISING (63%); MUSIC (60%); 

PERSON: HOCHSWENDER, WOODY MARC JACOBS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



893 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Dance Troupe Knocks on Doors To Enlarge Audience

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
There will be more than one doctor in the house when Dance Theater of Harlem opens tonight in a two-week engagement at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
The theater in fact will be full of doctors, and their friends and patients, in an event that marks a new development in the life of the Provident Clinical Society, a 92-year-old, Brooklyn-based professional organization for black physicians and dentists. In a departure from its usual fund-raising projects, the organization has bought out the theater for opening night. Dance Theater of Harlem's audience development task force, an innovative new marketing program, has struck again. 
 The Brooklyn season marks the company's first major New York engagement since 1990, when financial pressures led to a six-month layoff of personnel. Dance Theater has learned to exist in a lean new world, in part by reaching back to its social roots. Financially hard-pressed companies like Dance Theater have had to become corporate entities in order to survive, putting aside the kind of seat-of-the-pants administration that was adequate in more prosperous times. They have also had to forge new partnerships with the business world. Dance Theater, for example, has wooed and won new support from American Express, Philip Morris and New York Telephone.
But while the troupe has learned to behave like a corporate institution, it has also developed a marketing strategy that has the ring of down-home socializing. No one -- lawyers, churchgoers, schoolteachers, doctors and members of social clubs around the country -- is beyond the reach of the task force, a juggernaut under the gentle direction of Donna Walker-Collins, the company's young associate marketing director.
 
Results of a National Survey
 Arthur Mitchell, the director of the company, and Ms. Walker-Collins began in 1988 to explore the reason for the comparatively small attendance by blacks at the ballet. The following year, the company conducted a national audience survey and, after extensive talks with presenters of its national tour engagements, formed the task force.
Now, six months before an engagement in a new tour city or New York-area community, Ms. Walker-Collins visits the place and recruits church and social leaders and representatives of minority businesses -- Hispanic and Asian as well as black -- to form committees to get out the word about the company's impending engagement. "We open the doors and let people see what's going on at Dance Theater of Harlem," Mr. Mitchell said in a recent interview at the company's Harlem headquarters. "Mostly, people are told to go buy tickets. They're not asked to be involved."
Ms. Walker-Collins talks with the local sponsor or producer of the season as well as minority newspapers to get names of black leaders. "I only need two strong people to start with," she said. Eventually committees are established to work on public relations, marketing and fund raising and to connect with churches, schools, the local government and businesses.
 
Community Participation
 Committee members help develop projects that will involve the people they live and work with. In Brooklyn, a restaurant called Two Steps Down is displaying the ballet company's traveling photo exhibition and has made it possible for diners to fax ticket requests to the theater. One task-force member passed around a toe shoe at a service at her church, suggesting that congregation members put their hands inside the shoe and try to imagine the feel of it on a foot. She then urged them to go see the company perform. And Brooklyn Union Gas offered local businesses a challenge grant to raise money to buy tickets for schoolchildren to attend Dance Theater performances.
Some groups have even sponsored gifted but needy children for ballet classes at selected local schools. The children are spotted during the company's lecture-demonstrations, which include mini-performances with running commentary by a company member and time for young audience members to dance on stage. And, Mr. Mitchell said, the company is now able to offer those demonstrations in six languages, including Japanese. He talked of delighted audience response recently when the troupe was able to conduct the program in Spanish at Barcelona's ornate old Liceo theater.
Ideally, Ms. Walker-Collins said, the task-force approach can also help local sponsors and arts organizations to avoid duplication of marketing programs as they develop minority audiences. "Pacific Northwest Ballet had never heard of Links, a black women's charitable audience that raises money for the arts and education," Ms. Walker-Collins said of a Seattle-based troupe. "You get the Links involved and you're guaranteed a success. But you have to know about them."
Peter H. Hansen, Dance Theater's director of development and marketing, said that the program's success is reflected in larger group sales and increased attendance by minorities.
Mr. Mitchell said the company was healthier financially than it had been when he called the layoff of dancers and technical staff in 1990 to try to avoid a projected $1.7 million deficit after the cancellation of two tour engagements. The layoff attracted the attention of new friends, like the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, which awarded the company a $1 million stabilization grant in 1990. "We opened our books so that people could see the layoff was not because of mismanagement," Mr. Mitchell said. "Those were hard steps, but once you take them you find it's much easier to keep going."
The company has an annual budget of $6 million, which also covers expenses for its school. Its total deficit, accumulated, Mr. Mitchell said, over 23 years, is $700,000. "There are new words in my vocabulary now, like 'cautious,' " he said. He has learned to work with advisers, a new experience for him. And he said he was ready for what he feels may be the even harder economic times ahead for dance institutions.
If he is right, the company seems to have found some loyal new audiences through its task-force program. "We're trying to develop consistent audience members," Ms. Walker-Collins said. "We tell people we're just beginning. You can't simply tell them to go to a performance. They have to feel it in their bones."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM; BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM; BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE COMPANIES (92%); DANCE (91%); THEATER (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); MARKETING STRATEGY (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; MITCHELL, ARTHUR MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



894 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
Within Child Welfare, A Tragedy of Neglect

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
Tonight "Frontline" goes after Gov. Bill Clinton. "Who Cares About Children?," at 9 on Channels 13 and 49, relays charges that the Arkansas Governor and professed champion of children avoided doing much about the state's "inadequate and dangerous child welfare system" until he was forced to move by the threat of a class-action lawsuit. The program leaves the impression that political motives were behind both his years of inaction and his sudden support, after the New Hampshire primary, for increased financing.
"Who Cares About Children?" borrows its point of view from Mr. Clinton's critics, particularly William Grimm, a child-welfare attorney from San Francisco who was brought to Arkansas in 1990 to put pressure on the state. He is the hero of this hour. Set against the pictures of Mr. Grimm delivering impassioned pleas ("How many more children have to die in Arkansas before somebody does something?"), Mr. Clinton's statements seem unfeeling and glib. 
 The horror stories of inadequate foster care evidently come straight from those who brought the suit, and the interpretations of Mr. Clinton's actions come mainly from his critics. John Brummett, editor of The Arkansas Times, says: "He's a pure pragmatist, and he's looking for the things he can get done that will do him the most good."
It's a tendentious hour, but not an implausible one. Even if you are put off by the out-to-get-Clinton spirit, the examples of the workings, or nonworkings, of an overburdened child-welfare bureaucracy bring home conditions that go beyond Arkansas. The number of abused and neglected children doubled in the state in the 1980's. Social workers, everyone seems to agree, are undertrained, underpaid and underexperienced. Even the most conscientious foster parents may not be up to handling infants born addicted to drugs or infected with H.I.V. And for many children, foster care, which often involves frequent moves, leaves its mark in emotional deprivation and confusion.
The strong reports of hard cases make the charges of political calculation seem almost trivial. The Arkansas system may be no model for the nation, but where is the system that can repair the damage done to the youngest victims of family breakups, economic troubles and personal problems reflected here? The question viewers are left with is much bigger and tougher than whether Bill Clinton really cares enough about children.
 
'Listening to America With Bill Moyers'
Channels 13 and 49
Tonight at 10
For those who can stand more politics, "Frontline" is followed by another installment of Bill Moyers's series "Listening to America." On "Can We Govern?" Mr. Moyers talks with several politicians, including Senator Warren Rudman, the New Hampshire Republican who recently announced that he was leaving the Senate. The most interesting comments come from E. J. Dionne Jr. of The Washington Post, who is seen practicing journalism the old-fashioned way, listening and taking notes. The answer to the title question seems to be maybe or maybe not. To be continued next Tuesday.
 
Frontline
Who Cares About Children?
 
Written and produced by Hector Galan; Adela Mancias, associate producer; Will
Lyman, narrator. Tonight at 9 on
Channels 13 and 49.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FRONTLINE (TV PROGRAM); LISTENING TO AMERICA (TV PROGRAM); WHO CARES ABOUT CHILDREN (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FOSTER CARE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



895 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
The Unseen Candidates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN

 BODY:
Plastic. That's what I couldn't help thinking last week as I watched Jerry Brown and Bill Clinton campaign for votes in the Pennsylvania primary being held today. Speeches, interviews, smiles, even policies: as glossy, polished and thin as plastic. No wonder millions say they prefer None of the Above to the Presidential candidates available this year.
But to talk to Bill Clinton and Jerry Brown is to recognize there is grit behind the gloss, weight behind the plastic. Governor Clinton is engaging and very smart indeed. He talks interestingly about shaping reform policies in a ferociously conservative state like Arkansas. Mr. Brown, grandiloquent and glib in public, is honestly, even relentlessly inquisitive in private. 
 Why do lively, thoughtful people come out looking like such stiffs? The very question offers a devastating comment on the election process.
Jerry Brown started out responsibly enough before a group of of unemployed Philadelphia residents. The audience, he said, had been victimized by corrupt Washington politics and the absence of a social contract -- the sense that Americans bear collective responsibility for the plight of their neighbors. His answer: a flat tax to break the political stranglehold of special interests and to provide a stronger safety net.
But after that, he slipped into demagogy and foolishness. Congress proved it was corrupt by bailing out banks rather than people. But Jerry Brown knows -- or should know -- that Congress bailed out ordinary depositors, not banks. Besides, Jerry Brown knows -- or should know -- that Congress can responsibly borrow virtually any amount to replenish bank accounts because such loans don't drain the economy as a whole.
Mr. Brown blamed low-wage Mexican workers for taking work from Pennsylvanians. Yet Jerry Brown knows -- or should know -- that low foreign wages alone don't explain American joblessness.
Afterward, however, in private, when asked to defend his flat tax against accusations that it would punish the poor, he puts rehearsed rhetoric aside. Rather than dismissing criticism, he delves into details and declares a willingness to modify his policies so they can better achieve his objectives. Jerry Brown in public is angry, desperate and glib. Jerry Brown in private sometimes verges on the profound.
Bill Clinton displays a similar divergence in personas. Talking to the press after a dutiful tour of a Philadelphia prenatal clinic, he pronounced some meaningless promises about health care reform. The presentation seemed almost a parody of his detailed and inventive policy proposals.
Indeed, the punishing campaign seems to have reduced him to a plastic version of the Bill Clinton who traveled around the country last fall, trim, energetic, bursting with ideas and enthusiasm. On the stump in Philadelphia, he came across hoarse, heavy and tired.
Only afterward was there a glimmer of his personable side. Most reporters had rushed off to the next campaign stop. Walking back to his car, Mr. Clinton came upon a young man who appeared afflicted by Down syndrome.
"What's your name?" Mr. Clinton gently asked, the plastic smile turned genuine. "Bill," the man said shyly. "Why, that's my name, too!" Mr. Clinton exclaimed, and struck up a warm conversation.
Intelligence, warmth, curiosity and ideas. They're there, sure enough. The shame is that voters don't get much chance to see, under the plastic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BANK FAILURES (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR) JERRY BROWN (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



896 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
One Thing Missing

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: NORFOLK, Va.

 BODY:
Somebody is giving Ross Perot the wrong advice, most likely Ross Perot. It's running out of value for himself and for the country.
Mr. Perot wants to be President. Never mind the laid-back attitude. He wants it a lot, and sensibly he is using the two strongest tools he has. 
 One is lots of money. He made it himself and the Constitution guarantees him the right to use it for himself. Ross Perot's other tool is his own personality -- intelligent, successful, witty.
Put together, those two tools have helped rocket him up, up. Now he pushes the probable candidate of the Democratic Party in the polls. The experts are still saying he can never be elected President -- only not so loudly.
So if he has gone this far on his strategy, why is it wrong?
The answer is a compliment: He is not being true to himself or to the people who are reaching out to him.
The Perot campaign so far is based on a political recipe that, for a man of his admiring vision of himself and his country, is unbecoming and unworthy.
Recipe: Give voters the right straight-shooter personality. Display it often enough on TV. Feed in distrust of all elected officeholders and the political-economic system that made you successful. Mix with high-tech phone banks and commonsensical two-liners.
Do all that and voters won't push you too hard to show that you can put your mind where your mouth is.
One reason Mr. Perot has been getting away with it is that President Bush has disappointed so many who once voted for him. So bitter is their disappointment that they are willing to switch to a man who not only has never been in government but will not say exactly what he will do if he ever gets there. If ever there was a devastating verdict on Mr. Bush's performance, the Perot rocket is it.
And, of course, Mr. Perot profits by the goring of Bill Clinton -- by Bill Clinton, the press and Democratic back-stabbers who can't forgive him for having the courage to run when so many hotshot Democratic politicians suddenly found safer things to do.
Given his own abilities and the American love for the underdog, Mr. Clinton and his wife may stroll in the Rose Garden. Counting him out is ridiculous and manipulative.
But like Mr. Perot, Bill Clinton will need the votes of Americans who voted for George Bush once, but will not twice. So at least the President has the comfort of knowing that a vote for Perot is one vote less for Bill Clinton.
But if Mr. Perot is to get the votes, he will have to give us what he demands for himself -- respect. In politics that means clarity of intention.
For starters, I want to know about Mr. Perot's drug-fighting plan. He says he has one, that it won't be pretty, but that it will work and be within the Constitution.
I'm sorry for addicts, but sorrier for their victims -- crack babies, patients infected with diseased blood, passers-by shot in streets, children packing guns at 9, dead at 12.
A national horror. The only reason I can think of for Mr. Perot to conceal his drug plan is that it will be criticized. Fighting drugs demands a commitment of money but also of intellectual endeavor. Any decent plan has to take in not only law enforcement but therapy enforcement.
A Perot drug plan will be examined and criticized -- no question. All the more reason for him to bring out the drug plan now, and any other specific ideas he has to deal with crime, budget, defense, jobs, housing and Saddam Hussein.
Yes, every plan will be examined critically by citizens, legislators, judges and bureaucrats. Isn't that what the Constitution is about, something called balance of power?
Isn't that the stove that gives off the heat in the White House kitchen?
And isn't it time Ross Perot showed us if he could stand getting his hands warm?
"Ross, I have a plan right here in my briefcase -- how to double your company's profits and make all your employees live longer too."
"Legal?"
"Hundred percent."
"Let's see it."
"What? Now? Oh, no -- not until you promise to bring me into the company and make me chairman and chief executive officer."
Come on. How long will a man with so much respect for himself and country keep using a sales pitch for which he would boot anybody out of his office, right straight out?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



897 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Our Economy Needs Japan's Investments

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"When the Japanese stock market plummeted 10 percent," you write in "False Fears About Japan's Crash" (editorial, April 10), "fear struck Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged nearly 100 points in two days and Americans wondered whether Main Street would be next." You then go a long way toward dispelling the Chicken Little dialogue heard in international financial circles. "Stock market crashes can be traumatic," you conclude, but "they don't need to be economically crippling."
Unfortunately, you miss the mark on the fundamental impact that the deflating of the bubble economy has on global prosperity. 
 In the last year, Japanese banks have reduced their deposits with United States financial institutions by approximately $35 billion. They have also decreased their participation in Treasury auctions from 40 percent of total sales to less than 10 percent. Beyond that, incremental corporate lending has all but ceased, and so has direct investment.
This pullback of liquidity is driven by the distortions caused in bank balance sheets by the decline in Japanese stock and real estate values.
What complicates it is that the United States runs a trade deficit with Japan of more than $4 billion a month. This outflow of cash must be recycled back into the United States economy. If the Japanese are unable to put investment back in, the United States recession will be increasingly difficult to bring to an end and could, in concert with other developments, even evolve into full-scale depression.
It just may be that the sky really is falling. Slowly, but falling nonetheless.
 
RICHARD PHILLIPS
New York, April 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); AUCTIONS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (53%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



898 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Week;
Lack of Party Discipline Makes Contest Untidy

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 27

 BODY:
Back in the Pleistocene era of American politics, which ended about the same time the Vietnam War heated up, there was something called party discipline. It gave a phrase to the language: either "toe the party line," they said, or get in trouble with its elders.
With the popular rebellion against the fighting in Vietnam and the attendant changes in social values, insurgency became a more or less permanent political condition, especially in the Democratic Party. Big-city bosses and ward heelers passed from the scene. Congressional and legislative leaders lost their clout. Smoke-filled rooms were replaced by primary elections. 
 Now there is no party line, no party discipline and no party elders (or, to be more accurate, none that anyone pays much attention to).
Which is one reason why the contest for the 1992 Democratic Presidential nomination is so untidy, and one reason it is likely to remain so after Tuesday's Pennsylvania primary.
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas seems sure to win here, and to keep winning, except perhaps in California. His lone active rival, former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, sounded today as if even he knew the game was up. After the Pennsylvania votes have been counted, 7 of the 10 biggest delegations to the Democratic convention will have been chosen, with the other three -- from California, Ohio and New Jersey -- to be picked on or before June 2.
It is becoming almost impossible to find knowledgeable politicians who doubt that Mr. Clinton will be nominated. Yet there are plenty who talk wistfully about an open convention, who savage Mr. Clinton's record or his character and question his electability, who fantasize about what might have been -- all of which contributes to the impression of party disarray.
Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania is not alone in hesitating to endorse Mr. Clinton and to urge party unity against the Republicans, although he has been much more explicit and outspoken than most in his criticism. The Democratic governors of three other big states already won by Mr. Clinton have also held back: Mario M. Cuomo of New York, Ann W. Richards of Texas and Lawton Chiles of Florida. So have dozens of prominent Congressional Democrats. And so have Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, two of Mr. Clinton's vanquished rivals.
Only Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, a man from an older tradition, swallowed his pride after his early withdrawal from the race, endorsed Mr. Clinton and took to the road to solicit votes for his erstwhile adversary. For his pains, he has been denounced as a hypocrite by Mr. Brown.
One major reason for the party's tardiness in rallying around its presumptive standard-bearer, obviously, are the questions raised about Mr. Clinton's private life, his financial dealings and his draft status during the Vietnam War, and what those questions have done to his chances of defeating President Bush in November. As one Senator put it, "This is more than we're usually asked to swallow in the name of party unity, so it takes awhile."
But a larger reason, perhaps, is the lack of party discipline. It is every man or woman for himself or herself in American politics these days, and there are no real sanctions anyone can take against the naysayers.
Of course, those who hope for preferment in a Clinton Administration, through a judicial nomination or a Cabinet or sub-Cabinet position or an ambassadorship, will not be likely to hesitate. But since relatively few Democratic politicians seem to believe at the moment that Mr. Clinton can win, the loss of a potential political plum is not that much of a deterrent.
Once upon a time, a Jim Farley or a John M. Bailey would have come down hard on those who refused to play ball. But Democratic national chairmen no longer have that kind of power; Ronald M. Brown, the current one, feels he has to be extremely careful even in suggesting that the time may be at hand for the party to turn its attention to combating Mr. Bush in the fall.
What he says in his private phone calls may be another matter, but in public Mr. Brown is not willing to go much beyond the comment that an open convention "means a death-knell fight at the convention with a lot of Democratic blood on the floor, which I don't think is going to help us."
On the NBC News program "Meet the Press" on Sunday, Ronald Brown complained about "this search for a knight in shining armor," insisting that "there is none." But when he was asked directly whether Jerry Brown should fold his tent if he loses in Pennsylvania, the chairman begged off with the comment, "That's a question for him to answer, not for me to answer."
There is no cost to the individual politicians who continue to resist the all but inevitable. But there is clearly a cost to the party as a whole and its fragile hopes of winning the White House for only the second time since 1964. With a wounded incumbent and an economy still struggling toward recovery, the Democrats describe themselves as hell-bent on victory.
Their behavior so far suggests they don't really mean it.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Political Week column yesterday, about disarray in the Democratic Party, misstated the date for choosing delegates to the Democratic National Convention from California, Ohio and New Jersey. Primary elections in those states will be held on June 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (79%); TOM HARKIN (58%); JERRY BROWN (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



899 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Confirming Split, Last 2 Republics Proclaim a Small New Yugoslavia

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, April 27

 BODY:
Serbia and Montenegro today proclaimed the establishment of a new, truncated Yugoslav nation shorn of the four republics that have seceded over the last 10 months. The move amounted to a confirmation of the breakup of the old Communist Yugoslavia and an implicit acceptance of the independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina within its existing borders.
The decision to proclaim a new Yugoslavia was rushed through in a subdued, almost regretful, ceremony of less than 10 minutes, reflecting the discomfort of people acting to accommodate demands from Europe and the United States. 
 In finally acknowledging the demise of the Yugoslavia that had existed since 1946 and proclaiming a nation with less than half its area and with a population of 10.5 million compared with 23.5 million, the leaders of Serbia, dominant partners in the new nation, were effectively seeking to evade or forestall growing pressures for Serbia's international isolation.
In the Constitution for the new Yugoslavia proclaimed today, its leaders declared the borders to be those of Serbia and Montenegro as they existed in the Communist Yugoslavia established by Tito after World War II. In an accompanying declaration, the leaders said the new nation, to be called the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia like its Communist predecessor, "has no territorial claims" on neighboring republics.
Diplomats said this amounted to a renunciation of the claim made in the past by Slobodan Milosevic, the Serbian President, and by other Serbian nationalists that all Serbs in the old Yugoslavia had the right to be included in a single state that others called "a Greater Serbia."
The significance of this appeared to extend not only to Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose 1.7 million Serbs are the largest Serbian group outside Serbia, but also to the three other republics that have seceded: Croatia, Slovenia and Macedonia. Serbia fought a war on behalf of Croatia's 580,000 Serbs last year similar to the one in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The pressures on Belgrade to give such assurances, led by the United States and the European Community, intensified last week after Serbia gave its backing to a military offensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
 
Offensive Kills 200
 The offensive, in which a dozen or so towns were captured, killed at least 200 people and forced tens of thousands of Muslim Slavs and Croats to leave their homes. It also raised fears that Serbia would eventually annex the captured territories or seek to partition Bosnia and Herzegovina by recognizing a separate Serbian republic there.
The decisions announced here today created new optimism among the Muslim Slavs and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who approved the republic's independence in a vote eight weeks ago. The vote was boycotted by the republic's Serbs, who account for about 30 percent of the population.
The proclamation of the new Yugoslav nation and its renunciation of territorial claims served as a signal for the new Government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to renew pressures for removing 10,000 Yugoslav Army troops who have been garrisoned there.
Tonight, a statement from the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, issued on behalf of the Muslim Slav and Croatian leaders, formally demanded the withdrawal of the army from the republic, and said that those Yugoslav troops who wished to remain should join the republic's newly established territorial defense force.
 
Another Cease-Fire Broken
 But the statement had hardly been read over the radio in Sarajevo, the capital, before Serbian forces in the suburb of Ilidza responded with a barrage of recoilless cannon and machine-gun fire that appeared to be the most serious breach yet of the cease-fire that was agreed between the rival forces last week.
At the weekend, as part of its moves to ease Western pressures for its diplomatic isolation, Serbia dispatched the acting Yugoslav Defense Minister, Gen. Blagoje Adzic, to open negotiations on the army's presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Alija Izetbegovic, a Muslim Slav who is the republic's President. But in a seeming effort to allay the concerns of the republic's Serbs, the army commander in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Col. Gen. Milutin Kukunjac, a Serb, told reporters in Sarajevo today that while the army might pull out of "certain areas," it would remain in Bosnia as "the army of the people who accept us." This appeared to imply that the army would remain in areas of Serbian population.
The declaration accompanying the new Constitution included other gestures toward Western governments, among them a pledge that the new nation would abide by the principle of "not using force to settle open questions."
The declaration also said that Yugoslavia, in its new form, would be a democracy based on respect for human rights and on the principles of a "market economy." Further, it pledged to negotiate with the four breakaway republics on all "open questions," including the division of the old Yugoslavia's assets, through the European Community's Conference on Yugoslavia.
Many Serbs who attended today's ceremony at the copper-domed parliament building were subdued, and their spirits seemed unimproved by efforts to foster a spirit of celebration. Few joined in when a choir of women in white robes sang "Hey Slavs!" the anthem of the old Yugoslavia and of the new one, and only a small crowd gathered outside to watch the raising of the new flag, the same tricolor of red, white and blue that was flown by Communist Yugoslavia, minus the red star at the center.
Some of those present saw the new nation as a poor relation to the two previous ones: the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, which lasted from 1918 until the Nazi invasion in 1941, and Tito's republic, which covered 98,765 square miles, more than double the 39,380 square miles of the new state.
"I was born in one Yugoslavia, grew up in another, and now I'm a citizen of a third, and it is the smallest of the three," a woman said at the ceremony.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the proclamation of a smaller Yugoslav federation misstated the date for the formal adoption of the name Yugoslavia. It was 1929.

GRAPHIC: Maps show area of Yugoslavia in 1919, 1946 and today. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); MONTENEGRO (YUGOSLAVIA); BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA) ; SLOVENIA; MACEDONIA SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); WORLD WAR II (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (67%); JOSIP BROZ TITO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



900 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: 'Baby Bell' Layoffs Due

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 27

 BODY:
The Bell Atlantic Corporation said today that it might have to slash its work force by up to 6,000 workers to cut costs because of increased competition and the recession.
The Philadelphia-based telecommunications giant, whose units include regional telephone companies in mid-Atlantic states, said any cutbacks would occur through early-retirement incentives. 
 "If we determine we have to further downsize, we will make sure it is by a voluntary effort," said Larry Plumb, a spokesman.
He said Bell Atlantic was still recovering from the recession, unlike companies in other industries that were pulling out faster.
Initial company estimates are for cuts of 4,000 to 6,000 nonmanagement workers, or about 5 to 8 percent. But Mr. Plumb said that the figures were preliminary and that the company was still discussing the possibility of cutbacks with union officials.
Contracts with the Communication Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers expire in August. Together, the unions represent 52,000 of the company's 75,700 nonmanagement workers.
Last summer, Bell Atlantic offered incentives for up to 3,500 management workers to retire before year-end; the company said 3,200 took the offer. Bell Atlantic now has about 17,000 management workers.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A headline in Business Day on Tuesday about possible staff reductions at the Bell Atlantic Corporation misstated the way in which they would be made. Any cutbacks would occur through early-retirement incentives, not through layoffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (95%); VZ (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (95%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (56%); COMMUNICATION WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); COMMUNICATION WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELL ATLANTIC CORP INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (56%); COMMUNICATION WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); COMMUNICATION WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); 

PERSON: LARRY PLUMB (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992



901 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Coup in Peru a Blow to Its Copper

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TACNA, Peru

 BODY:
Democracy may not be the only victim of the upheaval in Peru.
 About six months ago, Charles G. Preble, the president of Peru's largest private company, announced a $300 million investment in new projects -- by far the largest foreign investment in years in Peru -- and said he was considering spending an additional $150 million. 
But he had one big worry: He was not certain international banks would be willing to lend up to $150 million to finance the projects. After all, Peru is considered a high-risk country for business, mainly because of its persistent terrorist activity.
 Now, Mr. Preble's worst fears have been borne out. With this month's seizure of near-dictatorial power by President Alberto K. Fujimori, about $200 million in capital has already fled the country, presumably for the United States and Europe, according to Peruvian Government officials.
 Financing for Mr. Preble's Southern Peru Copper -- which is owned mostly by Asarco Inc., the big American mining company -- and a host of other private projects seems increasingly remote. International businessmen who have been looking at Peru as one of the real long shots of Latin American development, worry that the coup has set back their plans months, perhaps years.
 Moreover, as the United States puts pressure on its allies and world lending organizations like the Inter-American Development Bank to withhold economic aid to Peru, the future of the country's recovery has a large question mark over it.
 Such uncertainty could be nearly disastrous. There are few countries in Latin America where foreign investment and international assistance is more critical for lifting the economy. Though a nation of 22 million people with an abundance of natural resources, Peru's development is minimal and the country's ability to generate earnings from exports is nearly paralyzed.
 Indeed, about the only sure flow of funds come from illegal drug trading, which experts estimate brings more than $1 billion a month into Peru's banking system. The money is a two-edged sword: It keeps the monetary system remarkably liquid but by overvaluing the local currency; it also makes the cost of living in Peru among the highest in Latin America and its exports uncompetitive.
 What executives fear the most is that since the coup was illegal under the country's 1979 Constitution, any contracts or agreements with his Government could be subject to nullification if Mr. Fujimori is forced out of office.
 
No Clear Title?
 "Under the Peruvian Constitution, this Government has no legitimacy," said one foreign businessman in Lima, who insisted on anonymity. "So who is going to invest? You don't build a house on a piece of land if you don't have clear title."
 Despite the gloom, however, not everyone thinks Mr. Fujimori's power grab is bad for business. Especially among local executives, optimism is high. As an example, a few days after the coup a group of local businessmen invited Mr. Fujimori to give a major address to the country from their organization's headquarters. Many say they feel the problems of the country, a corrupt legal system and failure to stop terrorism, were so entrenched that a strong authoritarian hand was the only way out.
 That sentiment is significantly buttressed by the overwhelming support of the Peruvian people so far, which gives Mr. Fujimori 75 to 90 percent approval ratings.
 "The people here have been so upbeat over the past week," said Iric R. Ivey, manager of Southern Peru's copper smelter, which is about 100 miles north of here in the city of Ilo. Mr. Ivey, like other American businessmen working in Peru, is guarded on his personal feelings about the power seizure. But among Peruvian business executives and workers, "there's a sense that things are changing, that corruption will be dealt with," he said.
 "It's very upbeat," he added. "Only time will tell."
 
Opening Before Coup
 What encouraged these investors is that before the April 5 coup, Mr. Fujimori had been showing a remarkable willingness to open Peru to the world's markets. Through a series of free market and austerity measures he had brought inflation down to 139.2 percent in 1991 from the hyperinflation rate of 7,650 percent in 1990, by, among other things, removing price-support subsidies, easing tariff barriers and cutting Government spending.
 He deregulated the country's ports, liberalized labor laws and permitted free currency exchange so businesses could send profits back to their home countries. And he announced a privatization program for more than 40 large state-owned companies.
 The response from businessmen was beginning to pick up. Besides Southern Peru's plans for up to $450 million in investment, Occidental Petroleum agreed to spend $60 million on oil exploration, and Argentine and Chilean companies were snapping up brewing and construction companies. Besides Asarco, Southern Peru Copper's ownership includes Newmont Mining, Phelps Dodge and the Pritzker family of Chicago.
 Mr. Fujimori has promised to continue such free-market policies and honor all Government commitments. Many here believe he will.
 Officials at Southern Peru Copper, which had revenues last year of $650 million, say they have no plans to halt any of the projects they agreed to in November. In fact, they note that under the investment program they hope to increase their profitability significantly.
 In their huge open-pit copper mines, in Cuajone and Toquepala, some 150 miles north of here, the company plans two secondary recovery operations, costing up to $80 million, using a leaching process that extracts copper from rock that is often wasted in traditional mining. The projects will increase production at both mines by a total of 15 percent, and raise Peru's total cooper output by 9 percent.
 The company has also agreed to a five-year, $100 million investment in new equipment, a much higher rate than in recent years.
 And it has agreed to spend up to $120 million on three pollution-control projects, the most expensive of which will capture up to 15 percent of the 600,000 tons of sulfuric acid that its Ilo copper smelter belches into the atmosphere every year.
 Company officials say privately they would also consider buying Peru's state-owned copper refinery in Ilo, which has an estimated value of about $80 million, and might buy another mining property. Buying the refinery could cut copper production costs significantly, since under an agreement with the Government, Southern Peru Copper must keep the refinery operating at full capacity and, under Peruvian law, pay almost double the going world rate for raw copper.
 Such good-citizen concessions, which in its 35-year history have made often the company a marginally profitable business, are receding only slowly. Indeed, in Tacna, the anti-gringo sentiment is still high, reflecting the traditional leftist politics of this part of the country.
 Still, there is plenty of good will Southern Peru Copper can draw upon, particularly from its 5,000 workers and their 20,000 dependents. Recent surveys have found that 75 percent of the residents do not like the presence of this American corporate giant, dubbed by some as the "gringo octopus," but almost all concede that they want to work for it.
 No wonder. The 5,000 workers and their 20,000 dependents get free housing, education, electricity, water, medical care and food in the mining camps and in the smelter town of Ilo -- services the vast majority of Peru's workers live without all their lives. The company also subsidizes college education for children of its workers. A tour through both Cuajone and Toquepala found them to be more like modern rural United States towns, with manicured lawns, clean buildings and streets. The hospital in Cuajone is considered perhaps the most modern in Peru.
 So far Southern Peru has been able to avoid the lash of terrorism that companies in other parts of the country have suffered. The Maoist Shining Path terrorist group has operated mostly in the Lima area and in the highlands region.
 But there have been signs of some terrorist infiltration in recent months. Shining Path literature has been found in Ilo, and Shining Path cells are rumored to be here in Tacna. That has made the company tighten its security measures even more.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on April 28 with an article about the outlook for Peru's copper industry misidentified the equipment shown. It is a converter furnace, not a crusher. The Southern Peru Copper Corporation wrote to The Times about the error on May 11, but the letter was misplaced through an editing lapse.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crusher at the Cuajone copper mine, north of Tacna, Peru, where secondary recovery operations are being employed to reduce the waste in traditional mining and to increase production. (Nathaniel C. Nash/The New York Times) (pg. D1)
Map: Shows the location of Tacna, Peru. (pg. D22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (69%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); ASARCO INC (69%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COST OF LIVING (76%); TERRORISM (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); COPPER MINING (72%); MINES & MINING (67%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES) CHARLES G PREBLE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1992



902 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
A NEW ORDER IN KABUL
The leader of a coalition of victorious rebel groups swept into the Afghan capital, announcing the creation of an Islamic republic and declaring amnesty for everyone except the former President, Najibullah. A1
 
FEAR AND OPTIMISM IN MYANMAR
Everything is shifting in Myanmar's Government, but the Burmese people are not convinced the changes are real, lasting or significant. A3
 
ISRAEL IS ADAMANT ON TALKS
Israel says it won't take part in regional talks as long as the U.S. insists that Palestinians from outside the West Bank and the Gaza Strip be allowed to attend. A6
 
MUSICAL SEATS IN GERMAN CABINET
Members of Parliament from the German Free Democratic Party overrode the choice by party leaders and selected Justice Minister Klaus Kinkel to replace Hans-Dietrich Genscher as Foreign Minister. Housing Minister Irmgard Schwaetzerhad been nominated by the party leadership. A5
 
PANAMA'S ZIGZAG RECOVERY
Traffic is heavy, construction is thriving, but so are unemployment and crime in the years after the U.S. invasion of Panama. A6
 
AMMUNITION FOR LABOR PARTY
As Israel's elections approach, a report that accuses the ruling Likud Party of waste, mismanagement and corruption is likely to become campaign ammunition. A7
 
THE ATROPHY OF ECONOMIC MUSCLE
In the new economic order, the U.S. has less to flex than in its days as a financial superhero. A8
 
WEAPONS AGREEMENT REACHED
Four former Soviet lands have reached an agreement that will expedite the ratification of the strategic arms reduction treaty. A9
Bosnians find little to trust in the new Yugoslavia. A10
 
STEP IN THE GLOBAL WARMING WAR
The Bush Administration has made an offer to curb the increase in gases that contribute to global warming, but still refuses to join in a treaty to stabilize 1990 levels. A10
 
National A14-22, D23-24
 
CLINTON KEEPS ROLLING
Governor Clinton gained a commanding victory in the Democratic primary in Pennsylvania.A1
 
WOMAN TO CHALLENGE SPECTER
Lynn Yeakel, a fund-raiser for women's charities and a political newcomer, scored an upset victory in Democratic Senate primary in Pennsylvania. A1
Woman in the News: Capturing the anger from the Thomas hearings. A19
News analysis: Pennsylvania's voters confirmed two trends. A18
A California poll found Perot even with Bush, ahead of Clinton. A19
 
STEEP TAB AT G.O.P. DINNER
A dinner featuring President Bush raised $7 million for the Republican Party, but it could create political problems for the President. A19
 
THE WAR ON REGULATIONS
In some cases, the Administration has cut red tape in the last three months with its 90-day moratorium on new Federal regulations and review of existing rules. In other cases, the red tape has merely been fluttered by political hot air. Either way, his current posture toward Federal rule-making marks a full-circle turnabout by the President. A1
 
A TRULY PERSONAL PHONE NUMBER
People who want to be reached anywhere they go -- at home, the office, a friend's residence or a vacation house -- can sign up with A.T.&T. for a single telephone number. The service begins in June. A1
 
HOUSE SPLIT GROWS OVER CHECKS
Congressional Republicans said they wanted the House to turn over all bank records subpoenaed by the Justice Department. D23
House Republicans opened a new initiative on domestic policy. D23
 
EX-H.U.D. AIDE INDICTED
Deborah Gore Dean, executive assistant to the Reagan Administration's Housing Secretary, was charged with accepting an illegal gratuity and making a false statement to the Senate. A14
 
OF TWO KILLINGS
From the start, a brutal attack on a suburban couple in a deserted Milwaukee parking lot last week had a sad and familiar ring to it, one that immediately recalled the fatal shooting of Carol Stuart in Boston three years ago. But this time the response of the authorities was decidedly different. A14
 
AFTER QUAKES, NOT ALL SHAKE
The recent series of strong earthquakes at both the north end and the south end of California has stirred a bad case of jitters in some residents and inspired in others the sort of insouciance that keeps millions of people living atop an unstable fault line that periodically shifts and shudders. A14
 
Lawmakers issued a warning on nonprescription-drug labels. D24
The test model of a new Stealth fighter crashed in California. D24
An insurance company paid $157 to settle a sex-bias case. A22
 
Education Page B8
Maharish International University mixes meditation and courses.
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Obituaries D24-25
FRANCIS BACON, ARTIST
The London-based painter, whose abstract images of psychological and physical brutality made him one of the most exalted, and most disliked, postwar artists, died in Madrid at the age of 82. A1
 
OLIVIER MESSIAEN, COMPOSER
One of the most influential French composers of the 20th century, he drew on such diverse sources as bird song, Indian and Balinese rhythmic modes, and more conventional Western forms, in a career of more than 60 years. D24
 
The Living Section C1-12
Only nature makes truffles better than a chocolatier's. C1
At lunch with Dolly Parton. C1
There in the crystal ball, forecasters are thriving. C1
The big stars go out to eat, but it's the caterer who shines. C3
Wine Talk C8
 
Health Page C13
Personal Health: Different approaches to warding off rape.
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
Pat on back for Seville's elite. C15
National Gallery names its new director. C15
Film: A Ukrainian's metaphor for Chernobyl. C15
 
Sports B9-15
Baseball: Cone loses no-hitter in 8th. B9
Yanks beaten, 1-0. B11
Basketball:Knicks top Pistons. B9
Nets stay alive. B9
Mahoney to coach St. John's. B12
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials A24
Crazy on the House Bank.
Dinkins and the silver lining.
Movement in Myanmar.
David C. Anderson: Guns.
 
Letters A24
Anna Quindlen: Believing the children. A25
Henry A. Waxman: The environmental pollution President. A25
David Mura: Bashed in the U.S.A. A25

GRAPHIC: Photo: A host of problems confront Panama's President. (Paul Conklin) A6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (94%); PANAMA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (94%); PANAMA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AMNESTY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TRENDS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RELIGION (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); CHARITIES (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



903 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: BUSH IS EXTENDING REGULATION FREEZE AS A GREAT SUCCESS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM with KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
In some cases, for better or worse, the Bush Administration has really cut red tape in the last three months with its 90-day moratorium on new Federal regulations and its review of existing rules. In other cases, the red tape has merely been fluttered by political hot air.
In any event, President Bush regards the examination of regulations that he announced in his State of the Union Message to have been a rousing success. On Wednesday, with the fanfare of a speech in the White House Rose Garden, the President is to announce that the moratorium and review will be extended for at least another several months. 
 For Mr. Bush, this represents a full-circle turnabout.
As Vice President, he headed a Reagan Administration team devoted to weeding out regulations, many of which had been imposed when Jimmy Carter was in the White House.
 
Regulatory Growth
 But in the first three years of his Presidency, Mr. Bush was anything but hawk-eyed against Government rules. He proposed and signed many laws that added to the regulatory burden on business, including the Clean Air Act of 1990, the Americans With Disabilities Act and measures in diverse fields like airplane noise, oil spills, bank and savings and loan lending practices, food labeling and tax policy.
By the end of last year, according to the Government's own count, the number of new Federal rules under consideration had risen to nearly 4,900 from about 4,000 in President Ronald Reagan's two terms. The number of people writing regulations, as calculated by the Center for the Study of American Business at Washington University in St. Louis, had grown to 122,000, the most ever.
National Journal, a nonpartisan weekly magazine aimed at readers who want detailed coverage of the Government, ran an article last fall calling Mr. Bush The Regulatory President.
But at the outset of this election year, with the economy flagging, the business community demanding relief and the right wing of the Republican Party challenging his ways, President Bush reversed course. As befits a President running for re-election on the theme that the country needs change, he became a born-again deregulator.
In his State of the Union Message on Jan. 28, Mr. Bush promised a "top-to-bottom review of all regulations, old and new, to stop the ones that will hurt growth and speed up those that will help growth."
Much of the effect so far has been felt in environmental rules. For instance, the Administration halted for 80 days the identifying of rare plants and animals under the Endangered Species Act, delayed rules to carry out the Clean Air Act, restricted the ability of environmentalists to block logging in national forests, and limited the liability of banks and other lenders for the cost of cleaning up toxic waste.
 
Other Affected Areas
 These other areas have also been affected:
*The Labor Department delayed rules it was drafting to protect the safety and health of workers by limiting their exposure to chemicals and other toxic substances sometimes used in manufacturing, agriculture and construction.
*The Federal Communications Commission more than doubled the number of radio stations a single company can own, from 12 AM and 12 FM stations to 30 of each.
*Several agencies have proposed relaxing biotechnology safety rules for testing and producing living genetically altered organisms.
*The Consumer Product Safety Commission killed proposed regulations that would have required certain toys designed for small children to be labeled "choking hazards."
*The Securities and Exchange Commission has made it easier for small companies to sell stock and for mutual funds to invest in new, small companies.
*The Food and Drug Administration speeded up its testing of new drugs for safety and effectiveness and postponed deadlines for food processors to put nutritional labeling on products.
*The Federal Reserve began preparing to lift some barriers between large banking companies and their securities affiliates.
 
Effects of Moratorium
 Most of this could have happened anyway, without the hoopla of a moratorium. The White House and the Office of Management and Budget have always had the authority to review regulations imposed by the departments and agencies. A senior Senate staff assistant who was assigned by his boss to review what had happened in the last 90 days came away baffled.
"The problem with the moratorium is that it is impossible to tell what it has done," the staff expert said. "The Federal river is awfully wide, and saying that such-and-such happened or didn't happen because of the moratorium, you just can't be sure."
But Murray L. Weidenbaum, who heads the business study center at Washington University and who was instrumental in abolishing regulations as chairman of President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers, said the steps taken by the Bush Administration "must be having some effect, given all the howling."
Top officials in the Bush Administration say the effect has indeed been widespread. Vice President Dan Quayle, who is heading the President's Council on Competitiveness, said this month that $10 billion to $20 billion a year had already been saved by scotching costly and unnecessary rules.
In an interview today, Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and a coordinator of the review process, said, "In this 90-day period alone, dozens of regulatory reforms and initiatives were taken that removed unnecessary obstacles to business expansion and job creation."
The Administration's critics in Congress and in various interest groups around Washington dispute those assertions. Representative John D. Dingell, the influential Michigan Democrat who heads the Energy and Commerce Committee and staunchly defends the automobile industry against expensive environmental rules, contends that the Administration has "done little but cause a great proliferation of litigation and cause the making of rules and regulations to move from Government administrative agencies to the courts."
And an Administration expert who is sympathetic to the goal of quashing rules said he was nonetheless skeptical of success. "You will never find an agency killing a regulation," he said.
Groups like Public Citizen, which is affiliated with Ralph Nader, and O.M.B. Watch, which is normally critical of Republican Administrations, maintain that the softening of environmental, health and safety rules will lead to illness, injury and even death.
But while Mr. Dingell says the public will "quickly figure out that all this is a gimmick," the Administration clearly believes it is getting political mileage out of the deregulation issue.
In part that is true because regulations really do cost the economy a great deal. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that complying with its rules will cost business $140 billion this year, three times what it cost 10 years ago.
It is also true because public mistrust of Government has become so prevalent. White House officials have been spreading around a poll taken last month by Penn & Schoen Associates showing that more than 80 percent of Americans believe the Government has too many unnecessary regulations.
In the Administration's view, the months ahead are more important than the last 90 days.
Administration officials said that in his Rose Garden speech on Wednesday, the President would describe in some detail what he calls the unintended consequences and hidden tax on the economy from excessive regulation.
"The 90-day moratorium, in the scheme of things, is not nearly as important as what will happen over the next 90 days," said Richard Morgenstern, acting assistant administrator for policy at the environmental agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: ;LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) ; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) ; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; ELECTION ISSUES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES ; ENVIRONMENT; RADIO; GENETIC ENGINEERING; BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; TOYS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ; LABELING AND LABELS; BANKS AND BANKING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; STOCKS AND BONDS FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (82%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (79%); BIOCHEMISTRY (79%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (79%); BONDS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); DEREGULATION (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (68%); OIL SPILLS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (66%); FOOD LABELING (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (62%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (62%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (60%); ANIMALS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (59%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (59%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (50%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; SCHNEIDER, KEITH ; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



904 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Primary;
CLINTON AND BUSH PREVAIL IN PENNSYLVANIA PRIMARIES; FEMINIST IS SENATE NOMINEE

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Wednesday, April 29

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton kept rolling toward the Democratic nomination Tuesday with a commanding victory in the Pennsylvania primary, reinforcing his dominance over former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr.
With 96 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Clinton had 57 percent of the vote, Mr. Brown had 26 percent and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, who withdrew from the race last month, had 13 percent. 
 On the Republican side, with 99 percent of the precincts reporting, President Bush continued his sweep of the primaries, with 77 percent of the vote to Patrick J. Buchanan's 23 percent. The Bush campaign asserted that the President had gone over the top in the delegates needed to secure the nomination, although a compilation by The New York Times showed him a few delegates short.
 
Strong Words From Bush
 Still, the voting in Pennsylvania only underscored the new phase of the campaign, in which Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush begin to take each other's measure -- while keeping a wary eye on Ross Perot, the Texas businessman considering an independent campaign for the Presidency. Mr. Clinton's big victory means that he can keep his focus on Mr. Bush instead of Mr. Brown. The President tried to signal Tuesday that he was ready for the Governor from Arkansas.
"I'll be damned if I'm going to roll over for a lot of these outrageous charges that are coming out of the opposition day in and day out," Mr. Bush told his campaign workers in Washington. "We don't have to take that."
 
More Than 33% Turn Out
 About 850,000 people voted in the Republican primary Tuesday, just more than a third of registered party members in the state; about 1.2 million people voted in the Democratic primary, roughly 45 percent of registered party members. The combined total was a quarter of the state's voting age population, according to Voter Research and Surveys.
A survey of voters leaving the polling places suggested that in Pennsylvania Mr. Clinton had eased some of the doubts about his character that had haunted him in other states. About 6 in 10 Democratic primary voters here said he had the honesty and integrity to be an effective President, considerably higher than the proportion that felt that way in recent primaries in Connecticut, New York and Wisconsin.
"All I know is in Pennsylvania we ran a strong campaign based on change," Mr. Clinton said Tuesday. "I got back to what drove me into this campaign last October. I talked to people about their problems and their future."
Mr. Clinton's allies were hoping that the magnitude of Tuesday's victory would silence some of the grumbling in the party. Many Democrats have publicly worried about the strength of a Clinton candidacy this fall, and Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania spent much of the past week criticizing his party's presumed nominee and arguing the case for an open convention at which other candidates could emerge.
 
'Irrelevant to the Process'
 But Ann F. Lewis, a Democratic strategist, said Tuesday, "I would say by now, those kinds of naysayers are irrelevant to the process."
James Carville, a top strategist for Mr. Clinton, suggested that the elected officials and party leaders who are superdelegates at the national convention, a critical bloc, would recognize the political reality.
Alluding to an earlier body of political wisdom, Mr. Carville said: "Mr. Dooley says the first thing the Supreme Court does is read the election returns. I suspect the superdelegates do the same thing."
A compilation by The New York Times showed that Mr. Clinton gained 110 delegates Tuesday, putting his total at 1,436. Mr. Brown gained 52 and rose to a total of 329, while Mr. Tsongas gained 7 and rose to 530. A total of 2,145 are needed to secure the nomination.
On the Republican side, The Times showed Mr. Bush with 1,092 delegates, just short of the 1,105 needed to nominate. Mr. Buchanan had 56. Despite the early scares from Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Bush has long seemed to have a lock on the nomination and securing a majority of the delegates has long seemed only a matter of time.
Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said tonight, "I cannot imagine a set of circumstances that would keep Bill Clinton from having a majority of the delegates by the end of the primary season, based on his performance today." Mr. Brown added that he had long hoped for an early nominee "so we can focus our time and attention on George Bush."
The feeling was mutual. Mr. Bush visited his campaign headquarters in Washington on Tuesday, telling his workers that he had held his fire so far but was looking foward to the coming battle with the Democrats. Mr. Bush, whose 1988 campaign was widely criticized for its slashing attacks on Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic nominee, promised a "gloves off" campaign that would, nevertheless, be conducted "with a certain sense of honor, a certain sense of decency, a certain compassion and a certain caring."
Perhaps more to the point, the White House was filled with cautious talk about improvements in the economy, the dominant issue of the campaign. With new figures showing that the economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the first quarter, Mr. Bush told reporters on Tuesday, "I think most people would say that a 2 percent growth is not recessionary."
He added, "There are some areas that are still hurting, but clearly this is a good sign, and there are a lot of other good signs."
The returns Tuesday were grim for former Governor Brown of California, who already seems, in recent speeches, to be transforming his campaign for the nomination into a crusade for political change with a life beyond the convention in New York. Still, many Democrats think he will stay in the race through the June 2 California primary.
Phil Angelides, the chairman of the California Democratic Party, argued, "He's got everything to gain and nothing to lose in terms of increasing his delegate count and therefore his voice at the convention."
Mr. Brown asserted at a news conference in Indianapolis that his showing in Pennsylvania, while not a victory, represented "a powerful constituency." The former Governor said he would stay in the race until the Democratic convention.
The polls Tuesday showed Mr. Clinton running well across the board, even with some voting groups that had proven less supportive of him in the past, including Roman Catholics. He carried more than half of the white vote over all, 7 in 10 of the black voters and 6 in 10 of the union households.
Some analysts said his strength reflected a simple fact of life: For the first time in a very long time, Mr. Clinton was not facing a barrage of character questions. "He still has a long way to go," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic poll taker, "but he's got the chance to run the kind of campaign he needs to run. He got that chance in Pennsylvania; he wasn't fending off a new charge every day."
Pennsylvania, in fact, was a remarkably quiet primary, particularly after the clamorous two weeks between the ones in Connecticut, where Mr. Brown won an upset victory, and New York. Mr. Clinton, after winning New York, tried to use the Pennsylvania campaign to begin sounding like a potential President, focusing his fire on Mr. Bush instead of Mr. Brown.
"I thought it was my sort of state and mostly my sort of campaign," Mr. Clinton said Tuesday. "I like issues and people problems and trying to solve problems and getting things done."
Still, there were signs of lingering problems. Almost 4 in 10 of Mr. Clinton's voters said they strongly favored him, the survey polls showed, but nearly half of his voters said they liked him with reservations. More than half of the Democratic voters said they were not satisfied with their party's candidates and would like to see someone else enter the race. (On the Republican side, more than 4 in 10 wanted other candidates to enter the race.)
And Governor Casey, Mr. Clinton's critic here, did not sound like a convert tonight in an interview with WCAU-TV in Philadelphia. He congratulated the Arkansas Governor but added that he was still worried about "the big show in November."

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Primary Vote"
DEMOCRATS
Results with 96% of the vote counted.

 	 	 	Clinton	674,602	57%	Brown	306,279	26	Tsongas	151,635	13	Other	60,335	6	
 
REPUBLICANS
Results with 99% of the vote counted.

 	 	 	Bush	743,104	77%	Buchanan	224,114	23	 Vote percentages do not translate directly into numbers of delegates. "Other" includes other candidates and uncommitted delegates. (pg. A18)
 
Chart: "Clinton: Honest Enough?" -- Democratic primary voters were asked whether they thought Gov. Bill Clinton has the honesty and integrity to serve effectively as President.

 	 	 	 	Region	Date	% Yes	% No	MID-ATLANTIC	 	 	 	Pennsylvania	April 28	62%	34%	New York	April 7	49%	46%	MIDWEST	 	 	 	South Dakota	Feb. 25	61%	32%	Wisconsin	April 7	52%	45%	NEW ENGLAND	 	 	 	Connecticut	March 24	46%	48%	Massachusetts	March 10	38%	58%	SOUTH	 	 	 	Texas	March 10	73%	23%	Florida	March 10	62%	23%	 Figures from Pennsylvania, New York, Wisconsin and Connecticut are based on surveys conducted by Voter Research and Surveys of Democratic primary voters leaving polling places. Figures for Massachusetts, Texas, Florida and South Dakota are based on V.R.S. surveys sponsored by CBS News and ABC News. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTION RESULTS; PUBLIC OPINION; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); ETHICS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BROWN, EDMUND G JR ; TONER, ROBIN; TSONGAS, PAUL E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J BILL CLINTON (93%); JERRY BROWN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



905 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Senate Race;
After Making Specter the Issue, Newcomer Wins Bid to Face Him

BYLINE: By MICHAEL DeCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Wednesday, April 29

 BODY:
Lynn H. Yeakel, a fund-raiser for women's charities, sprang from virtual anonymity a month ago to become the upset winner of Tuesday's Democratic Senate primary in Pennsylvania.
With 97 percent of the votes counted at about 2 A.M., Ms. Yeakel had 45 percent to 33 percent for Lieut. Gov. Mark S. Singel. The remainder was divided among three other candidates. 
 The outcome turned on Ms. Yeakel's criticism of Senator Arlen Specter in the hearings last year on the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, and it set up a confrontation over women's issues for the fall election.
Mr. Specter, a two-term incumbent, handily defeated his rival for the Republican nomination, State Representative Stephen F. Freind. With 93 percent of the votes in, Mr. Specter, who is seeking his third term, had 65 percent of the vote to 35 percent for Mr. Freind.
Ms. Yeakel's apparent victory over Mr. Singel, who was the front-runner until last week, was termed "a stunning upset" by G. Terry Madonna, a political analyst who is director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville State University in Lancaster. "There is no corollary for this in Pennsylvania politics," Mr. Madonna said. "She is the complete outsider. She will be formidable against Arlen Specter. I think this is the year of the woman in politics."
 
'We Did It!'
 Shortly after 10 P.M., Ms. Yeakel, who says she is a champion of womens' issues, which she says are "central to this society," appeared at the Philadelphia Hilton to thank a large gathering of supporters. "We did it!" she said. "We did it! We did it!" She went on, "This was a hard-earned victory; it was not a miracle."
Mr. Singel had conceded a half-hour earlier, saying he had called Ms. Yeakel to tell her that she would be an outstanding Senator. "I'm just proud to go back to continue my work as Lieutenant Governor," he told his supporters.
Pennsylvania has never elected a woman to the Senate; it has elected three widows of incumbents to its delegation in the House. Only 7 percent of the members of the state's General Assembly are women.
The other Democratic candidates were Robert E. Colville, 56, a five-term District Attorney in Allegheny County, who had a sixth of the vote in the survey; Freddy Mann Friedman, 47, a psychologist from Ardmore, a suburb of Philadelphia, who had less than 1 in 20 votes, as did Philip Valenti, 42, a follower of Lyndon LaRouche who lives in the Philadelphia suburb of Upper Darby.
 
Percentage Point a Day
 Ms. Yeakel, 50, was virtually unheard of in statewide political circles when she began campaigning Feb. 6. Her support climbed by more than a percentage point a day, due partly to her television advertisement reminding voters of Senator Specter's aggressive questioning of Anita F. Hill in the Thomas hearings.
Ms. Yeakel also got help from newspaper endorsements, which generally praised her positions on women's issues, the economy and education and dismissed the 38-year-old Mr. Singel as a career politician lacking conviction.
Mr. Singel's position on abortion was particularly unclear because he said that he personally opposed abortion but that it should be legal in most circumstances.
Neil Newhouse, Mr. Specter's poll taker, played down the threat that would be posed by Ms. Yeakel in the general election. "Arlen Specter is no Mark Singel, and he has a very solid record on women's issues," Mr. Newhouse said.
A survey of voters leaving the polls, conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, showed that Ms. Yeakel's largest bloc of support was coming from educated, high-income voters as well as voters under age 60. Voters with only high school degrees were more apt to support Mr. Singel.
Ms. Yeakel, who lives is Rosemont, a suburb of Philadelphia, won about two-thirds of the vote in Philadelphia and its suburbs; Mr. Singel, who lives in Johnstown, in the western part of the state, won a third of the vote in the Pittsburgh area. More than half the women and 4 in 10 men voted for Ms. Yeakel. By contrast, Mr. Singel was backed by a third of the male and female voters.
More than half of Ms. Yeakel's supporters said in the survey that Justice Thomas should not have been confirmed. Ms. Yeakel's supporters also included more than half of the two-thirds of the Democratic voters who said that abortion should remain legal.
 
Possible Ominous Sign
 In the Republican primary, the survey found that a quarter of the voters opposed the confirmation of Justice Thomas. But 6 in 10 of those same voters still backed Mr. Specter, who had voted in favor of Judge Thomas's confirmation.
More than half of the Republican voters said that abortion should be kept legal, and about three-fourths of these voters supported Mr. Specter. Mr. Specter also won the votes of about 6 in 10 of the Republican women.
In a possibly ominous sign for Mr. Specter, only 6 in 10 of the Republican voters said they would vote for him in the general election if he was running against Ms. Yeakel. One in four Republicans said they would vote for Ms. Yeakel. Democrats were not asked this question in the survey.
Ms. Yeakel's rapid rise from underdog to electoral victory matches that of Senator Harris Wofford, who won last November's special election to fill the seat of Senator John Heinz, who died in an airplance crash.
Gov. Robert P. Casey appointed Mr. Wofford, who had served in his cabinet, as interim Senator in the spring. But going into the fall campaign for the three years remaining in Mr. Heinz's term, polls showed Mr. Wofford trailing Dick Thornburgh, the former Republican Governor and former United States Attorney General, by more than 40 percentage points. Mr. Wofford, calling for new leadership and national health insurance, defeated Mr. Thornburgh 55 percent to 45 percent.
Just as Mr. Wofford's victory sent shock waves through the Republican Party and gave Democratic candidates some powerful campaign themes, Ms. Yeakel's showing is likely to catch the attention of the male-dominated structures of both political parties.
 
Second Woman in 2 Months
 Political analysts say that female politicians, who have had limited electoral success in the past, may have come into their own this year, when voters are saying in surveys that the country is on the wrong track and that they want all new people in government.
Ms. Yeakel is the second woman in two months to surprise the Democratic establishment. In Illinois, Carol Mosely Braun, a 44-year-old Cook County recorder of deeds, ran a primary campaign that was also fueled by outrage over the Thomas hearings, and she defeated the Democratic incumbent, Senator Alan J. Dixon, a Thomas supporter.
In the Republican primary in Pennsylvania, voters had a stark choice between Mr. Specter, 62, who supports a woman's right to abortion, and Mr. Freind, 47, who is the author of the Pennsylvania anti-abortion law that is before the Supreme Court.
In comments following his victory, Mr. Specter gave little attention to Ms. Yaekel's criticism but said that she would need to find other issues in the general election campaign.
"It sort of felt for a long time like I had two opponents. I heard what Steve Freind had to say on the right, and I kept seeing those television commercials for Ms. Yeakel on the left," Specter said. "And now I look forward to saying, simply put, there's a lot more to a United States Senate race than a single issue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lynn H. Yeakel celebrating after winning the Democratic Senate race in Pennsylvania. With her was a campaign aide, Cathy Ormerod. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times) (pg. A1)
 
Table: "Pennsylvania Democratic Senate Race"

 	 	 	 	 			Robert E.	Mark S.	Lynn H.	Total		Colville	Singel	Yeakel	49	Male	16	36	41	51	Female	10	32	52	38	Liberal	9	26	60	46	Moderate	14	39	42	16	Conservative	20	42	27	75	Democrats	13	36	44	26	Independents	11	28	55	7	Not high school graduate	16	48	29	33	High school graduate	14	44	33	23	Some college	19	33	42	20	College graduate	11	28	57	17	Post graduate education	3	20	72	25	Blue-collar workers	17	40	36	26	White Protestant	10	36	49	51	Catholic	17	40	39	6	Jewish	7	9	79	29	Philadelphia area voters	2	23	67	32	Pittsburgh area voters	30	28	37	22	Oppose the death penalty	12	26	56	21	Want Tsongas in race	13	32	52	
 
Voted in Presidential primary for:

 	 	 	 	 	26	Edmund G. Brown Jr.	11	23	58	55	Bill Clinton	13	41	41	13	Paul E. Tsongas	14	30	51	
 
Choice in November

 	 	 	 	 	10	George Bush	17	39	27	55	Bill Clinton	10	38	47	24	Ross Perot	17	27	50	
 
Senate vote on nomination of Clarence Thomas to Supreme Court

 	 	 	 	 	34	Should have confirmed	17	42	33	51	Should not have confirmed	10	27	59	14	Not sure	13	44	34	
 
Opinion of Roe vs. Wade

 	 	 	 	 	67	Keep abortion legal as it is now	10	30	56	29	Supreme Court should overturn	20	44	26	Based on a survey conducted by Voter Research and Survey of 1,801 voters voters leaving polling places in 40 randomly selected precincts throughout Pennsylvania in Tuesday's Democratic primary. Of them, 1,655 said they voted for the Senatorial nomination. Some categories may not add to 100 percent because of rounding, votes for others, or no opinion. Two candidates, Freddy Mann Friedman and Philip Valenti, are not shown. (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US); SUPREME COURT (US) PHILADELPHIA HILTON (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US); SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES; WOMEN; VOTER BEHAVIOR ; SEXUAL HARASSMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHARITIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; YEAKEL, LYNN; SPECTER, ARLEN (SEN) ; SINGEL, MARK S (LT GOV); THOMAS, CLARENCE (ASSOC JUSTICE); HILL, ANITA F (PROF) BILL CLINTON (92%); ARLEN SPECTER (91%); CLARENCE THOMAS (87%); JERRY BROWN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



906 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
G.M. Posts First Profit Since 1990

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 28

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation today announced its first quarterly profit since the second quarter of 1990.
The company, which has been scrambling to reorganize its management and operations to help erase its string of losses, said it made $179 million in the first quarter, compared with a loss of $1.1 billion, excluding nonrecurring gains, a year earlier. 
 G.M. was able to make a profit mainly because of improvements in its troubled North American automotive operations, although the company acknowledged that the operations were still not profitable. In previous quarters, losses in North America more than negated profits from overseas and from the company's non-automotive subsidiaries.
General Motors' revenues in the first quarter rose nearly 10 percent, to $32 billion, from $29.2 billion a year earlier. The company's profit attributable to its regular common shares, one of three classes of G.M. stock, amounted to 2 cents a share.
 
Bodes Well for Stock Sale
 The overall profit, albeit small for a company of G.M.'s size, should augur well for the pending sale of up to 57.5 million new shares of G.M. common stock, announced on Friday. G.M. hopes to raise $2.3 billion or more to help shore up its balance sheet. G.M. reported a net loss of $4.45 billion for 1991, the company's worst year ever.
G.M.'s share price rose 37.5 cents today, to $40.375, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Analysts were upbeat about G.M.'s improvement in the quarter, but no one would comment for the record, citing S.E.C. restrictions against public comment during a registration period for new stock. Because of the size of the G.M. offering, most large brokerages are part of the syndicate that is selling shares; their analysts, therefore, are barred from public statements that might lure potential investors until the S.E.C. has finished reviewing regulatory filings.
But several analysts who granted interviews on the condition that they not be identified noted that G.M.'s profit margins had improved and that the auto maker was finally showing the effects of cost-cutting and efficiency measures, in addition to higher sales. But analysts also warned against too much optimism, saying the strength of the economic recovery and the revival of automotive demand remained big question marks for G.M. So far this year, retail automotive sales in the United States are running below G.M.'s projections.
 G.M.'s embattled chief executive, Robert C. Stempel, echoed the analysts' caution, saying: "We are encouraged that our efforts to make G.M. competitive and profitable are paying off. However, while we have made significant progress in improving the financial performance of the North American automotive operations, there is a considerable way to go before we will be fully satisfied with our financial results."
[In a speech to business writers on Tuesday night in Chicago, Mr. Stempel said G.M. planned to accelerate the scheduled closings of 21 plants, The Associated Press reported. "We're looking at accelerating all of our decisions," he said.]
The $1.1 billion loss a year earlier would have been narrower except for $942 million of special items. On a net basis, the company had a much smaller loss of $144 million because of special gains, including a profit from the sale of the General Motors Building in New York. The results a year earlier were also restated to reflect the effects of an accounting change relating to income taxes.
Two of G.M.'s three main non-automotive subsidiaries, Electronic Data Systems and GM Hughes Electronics, posted higher earnings on Monday; the General Motors Acceptance Corporation reported lower earnings.
A company spokesman said a 6.8 percent improvement in factory sales of cars and trucks to G.M. dealers -- 1.76 million worldwide, compared with 1.66 million a year earlier -- was an important reason for the company's improved first-quarter performance. During last year's first quarter, dealers were liquidating inventories of unsold vehicles, which meant weak factory sales and poor financial results.
In North America, G.M. benefited from a higher proportion of its factory sales going to individual retail customers, rather than to fleet buyers like car-rental companies. Retail customers pay higher prices than fleets. A company spokesman said fleet sales constituted about 34 percent of car sales, compared with 37 percent last year.
 In the first quarter, G.M. customers also bought a higher proportion of high-profit large cars like the Cadillac Seville and Eldorado, Pontiac Bonneville and Buick LeSabre. All of those models were redesigned and introduced within the last year.
To compensate for its financial losses, G.M. raised funds by issuing $3.4 billion worth of preference stock in late 1991 and early this year. The auto maker is facing huge costs in connection with the development of new car and truck models, as well as costs connected with the revamping of its North American operations.
Three weeks ago, in a move that appeared aimed at Mr. Stempel's authority, G.M.'s outside directors demoted two top officers and appointed a new president and chief operating officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (92%); COMMON STOCK (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); RETAIL SALES (60%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



907 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and World: New Economic Order

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Although there has been much talk about building a new political order in the post-cold-war world, the events here in the last few days make clear that a new economic order is also rapidly emerging.
Consider these developments in the whirlwind of high-level economic meetings in Washington: 
 *The 15 republics in the former land of Lenin will soon be joining two bastions of capitalism, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
*Hamstrung by debt and deficit, the United States, once so economically powerful that it could singlehandedly finance the reconstruction of postwar Europe, now feels compelled to turn to the I.M.F. to lead the effort to rebuild the former Soviet Union.
*Sounding like an economic development official from Kansas, Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar, Russia's chief economic policy maker, came to the symbolic heart of capitalism -- the United States Chamber of Commerce -- to woo companies with arguments that Russia was fertile territory for outside investors.
*The United States pressed Germany and Japan to do more to spur the sluggish world economy, but German officials (angrily) and Japanese officials (diplomatically) said they were too big to be pushed around by Uncle Sam. Besides, they said Washington should clean up its own economic house, before it tells others what to do.
 
Pieces of a New Mosaic
 These developments are all pieces in a new economic mosaic in which the war between Communism and capitalism has ended, and almost all countries have turned to a market economy. Although China and Cuba continue to embrace large parts of Communist ideology, even they are using more and more features of a market economy.
The new mosaic also shows that the United States is no longer the undisputed economic colossus able to muscle other countries into line.
"Germany and Europe have gained in economic strength relative to the U.S., hastened by the weakening of the U.S. fiscal situation in the 1980's," said Stanley Fischer, an M.I.T. economics professor who used to be the World Bank's chief economist. "With the decline of the Soviet threat, the tendency of Europe to do what the United States wants, and make strategic concessions on the economic front, has definitely declined."
 
Among Industrial Friends
 Disputes over whether Angola or Afghanistan should be Communist or capitalist are past. Now the hottest disputes are among industrial friends on issues like the European Community's refusal to accept Washington's demands to slash its farm subsidies. Or Bonn's reluctance to follow Washington's call to cut its budget deficit so that Germany's central bank would have room to cut its interest rates and stimulate Europe's economy.
With economic growth weak in the United States and the world, Washington -- with much less room for pump-priming than in previous recessions because of its huge budget deficit -- also called on Tokyo to spur growth by increasing Government spending and lowering interest rates. Like a robust new giant confronting an aging one, Tokyo politely told Washington to take a walk at Sunday's meeting of Group of Seven finance ministers.
Washington cannot bankroll a Marshall Plan for the former Soviet republics because the task is so enormous and because the American economy is debt-ridden and no longer so dominant. That is why Washington has asked the I.M.F. to run the rescue operations, which are expected to cost $44 billion this year.
"The U.S. no longer has the money to put into various international agencies and efforts that it use to have," Professor Fischer said. "It leads from financial weakness."
 
Relations May Be Stormy
 A major addition to the economic order is that the I.M.F. will be prescribing economic reforms to the former Communist world. These proud countries seem eager to embrace capitalism, but their relationship with the I.M.F. promises to be stormy.
According to the Interfax news agency, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia said today: "We do not intend to work under the direct orders of the I.M.F. We do not agree completely with this organization's viewpoint, and we will stick to our point of view." But I.M.F. officials, seeking peace, said the fund never dictates policies to countries when they sign I.M.F. reform agreements.
For countries like Ethiopia and Bangladesh, the new economic order seems full of injustice and disorder. Officials from many developing countries complain that they removed their import barriers at the urging of the rich nations, but now the wealthy countries are loathe to remove their barriers on third-world products, like apparel and peanuts.
"The first tier of countries will remain the first tier in the post-cold-war world," said Jean-Claude Paye, secretary general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a grouping of 24 rich nations. "But if they don't get their act together and open to the needs and problems of others, we'll have no economic order."
 
The Japanese Model
 With the dispute between Marxism and the market withering away, a new debate is picking up steam: what form of capitalism is best for the developing world. Because of the huge recent successes of Japan, Korea and Thailand, Japanese officials argue that Africa and Latin America would be wise to follow Tokyo's economic model, where the Government helps guide companies, rather than Washington's hands-off model.
"What could emerge is a period of competition between different capitalist models which all accept the premise that you have a right to private ownership and would acknowledge that private incentive is necessary for development," said William R. Clines, a senior fellow with the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "But there will be a debate between the Japanese model which gives a bigger role to government planning, the U.S. model which is essentially laissez-faire and the European model which gives more emphasis to social welfare."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) ; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) ; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; GERMANY; COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RECESSION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); TRENDS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



908 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Panama Grows, Reaching Skyward, Yet Down Below Much Pain Remains

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
In this city stretched out beside the Pacific Ocean, new high-rise office buildings and condominiums are joining the already gleaming white skyline at the dizzy pace of a boomtown, creating vast traffic jams as construction crews maneuver around each other on dozens of sites.
Most major economic indicators are rising with what one business executive likened to the sharp, sure climb of a jetliner. The Panama Canal has been doing record business. Politics is flourishing, and so is the mainstream press, both in its news pages and its advertising linage. 
 Yet on the day this month when a Miami jury convicted Panama's former strongman, Manuel Antonio Noriega, on drug trafficking and related charges, the elected President who now governs the country, Guillermo Endara, could pause only briefly to savor the moment.
Then he had to return to the week's woes, including demonstrations by the jobless in the Atlantic port city of Colon, a strike by banana workers that tied up Puerto Armuelles in the west, land struggles between peasant squatters and indigenous groups, and a crime rate that everybody seemed to think had reached untenable proportions.
 
An Unanswered Question
 While Panama today is making a headlong recovery from the effects of the American invasion two years and four months ago and the two years of rising political tension that preceded it, the recovery has not been fast enough to soak up all of the jobless and resolve myriad other economic and social problems.
An unanswered question about the recovery is how much of it is linked to Panama's continuing role as a drug transshipment point and money-laundering center.
American and Panamanian officials say the capture and trial of General Noriega eliminated the "one-stop corruption" that existed before, under which traffickers paid him and a small group of collaborators for transshipment privileges. But it did not halt trafficking through Panama.
 
Feuding in Coalition
 Seizures of cocaine shipments by the Panamanian police with American help have been rising, as they have throughout Central America and Mexico. American drug experts say that is a result of improved police cooperation but also reflects the fact that more cocaine is probably being moved through the isthmus and Mexico because detection has improved on direct routes between Colombia and the United States.
Panama's recovery is further complicated by increasingly strident feuding among the leaders of the coalition that led the political opposition to General Noriega and took over the Government as the invasion began on Dec. 20, 1989.
A year ago, the coalition fell apart when President Endara forced the Christian Democrats, led by his First Vice President, Ricardo Arias Calderon, out of the Government. Today, Mr. Arias leads the opposition, although he is still formally the First Vice President, and his party has continued to give some legislative support to the Government.
But the United States Ambassador, Deane R. Hinton, said in a recent speech that the problems were a natural part of the process of learning to live in democracy.
"Many Panamanians are so busy complaining of this and that and criticizing so and so for something or other," he said, "that they have lost sight of the truly immense progress Panama has made and is making."
 
Tradition Is Blamed
 Rogelio Cruz, the Attorney General, who is under criticism from many Panamanians for not proceeding faster to prosecute General Noriega's collaborators still in Panama, said the tensions were "partly the result of being in political transition, but also part of Panamanian tradition; we get it from our Spanish history."
Mr. Arias said: "What has happened is that once democracy was installed, all the social and economic matters that had been postponed in recent years began to emerge. The overall economic figures sound good, but there is an enormous accumulation of poverty at the lower levels."
Mr. Arias complained that Mr. Endara was a weak President who acted only when a crisis erupted. More neutral analysts at least partly confirmed that assessment by describing Mr. Endara's style as "collegial."
"This is more serious than normal transition problems," Mr. Arias said, "because we have a presidential system and practically don't have a President."
Some analysts pointed out that Mr. Endara had not really expected to become President when the opposition coalition was pieced together for the May 1989 elections. Although he won easily, General Noriega gave him no chance to take office until the Americans landed six months later and dropped the job in his lap.
 
The Real Power Struggle
 As a result, the real power struggle is played out between Mr. Arias and Ruben Carles, the powerful Controller General, a former private banker whose fiscal conservatism and reputation for honesty please the United States and international creditors.
Louis Martinz, who handles international press relations for the President, says the dispute boils down to the fact that the Christian Democrats want to put more money into social programs, while Mr. Carles gives priority to the $5 billion foreign debt.
Panama's two and a half million people have long been accustomed to one of the highest living standards in Latin America. The services-dominated economy is aided by thousands of relatively well-paid jobs on the Panama Canal and on 10 American military installations, plus more than 100 banks making up the international banking center and the Colon Free Zone, where businessmen from all over Latin America buy merchandise.
Government statistics show that the economy grew an impressive 9.3 percent in 1991. Although some private economists have slightly lower estimates, everyone agrees that the economy has essentially recovered the level of 1987, considered the last good year under the old regime.
Economic analysts point out that most of this recovery is the product of private enterprise and has come about despite the Government's fiscal conservatism and the fact that aid from the United States has been slower and smaller in amount than the Endara Government had expected.
The United States has committed itself to about $1 billion in aid -- both grants and credits -- but only $544 million has been disbursed so far. Of that, $130 million went to help Panama pay its arrears with the international lending agencies so it can resume borrowing from them and more than $100 million went to private banks for re-lending to investors at commercial rates.
According to figures supplied by officials of the construction industry, construction activity this year is running 10 percent above that of 1987.
Although the most visible construction activity is in the ultra-modern towers and shopping malls, construction experts say there has also been considerable construction of much more modest housing.
 
Fire Left 2,700 Homeless
 That includes new houses or apartments for the 2,700 families who lost their homes in the Chorrillo slum when fire tore through the neighborhood after American troops attacked the headquarters of General Noriega's Panama Defense Force as the invasion began.
The United States paid for the new homes as part of its aid package.
The Union of Industrialists estimatesd that manufacturing output and sales have also returned to 1987 levels. In the Colon Free Zone, trade increased by 31 percent last year, attributed to strengthening economies and more liberal foreign trade policies in much of Latin America.
The Panama Canal, which not only provides 6,000 to 7,000 jobs but also makes tonnage-based payments to the Panamanian Government, had its second-best year ever in tonnage terms in 1991, aided by the Persian Gulf war and increased shipments of refrigerated fruit and vegetables out of South America. Canal officials say this year's traffic is running at about the same level.
What confounds the Government and economic experts is the lingering high jobless rate. Although it has fallen from a high of about 18 percent in 1990, it is still put at 15.7 percent, not including substantial underemployment. The rate was 11.8 percent in 1987.
Some analysts fear that some of the construction growth could be coming from the continuing laundering of drug profits, a longtime problem in Panama. But others point out that the overall strength of the economy, plus the fact that a number of construction projects had been postponed during the crisis years, also help explain the boom.
As for the apparently rising crime rate, Mr. Cruz, the Attorney General, said he could not confirm that "because we never had crime statistics before." He acknowledged that increased crime was quite possible.
"Criminals used to be afraid to act for fear the security forces would kill them," he said. "Now, they know they'll get due process and have lawyers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Panama is making a headlong economic and political recovery, but not fast enough to resolve all problems. Unemployed residents of the Atlantic port city of Colon demonstrated yesterday for jobs. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Panama's Progress" shows growth in Panamanian gross national product (1988-1991) and changes in unemployment rate (1987-1991). (Source: Panamanian Government)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MONEY LAUNDERING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRENDS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (88%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (75%); JURY TRIALS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); COCAINE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); VERDICTS (70%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY; ENDARA, GUILLERMO (PRES) RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON (84%); MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA (80%); GUILLERMO ENDARA (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



909 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Shift of Funds From Schools Is Protested

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
School officials yesterday accused Mayor David N. Dinkins of diverting $67 million that the New York Legislature had pledged for education, and they warned that the lost money would force a harmful increase in class size in the early grades.
Their criticism was the first to come on the New York City budget, which was unveiled Monday by the Mayor. Much of the sniping across the East River between City Hall and the board's headquarters at 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn is part of a traditional springtime exercise. But it takes on added significance this year, school officials contend, because the size of elementary-school classes is at stake. 
 The city's budget director, Philip R. Michael, acknowledged yesterday that class size could rise in first through third grades to 27 students, from 25. But he said that was the least distasteful of the unsavory choices the school system faced.
Responding to the school district's criticism, Mr. Michael accused school officials of distorting the budget picture and urged the board to find the least damaging trims.
"I think you would find an overwhelming consensus that a bureaucracy that has $7.5 billion can find efficiencies of 1 percent," he said.
Mr. Michael acknowledged that $67 million ostensibly set aside for education had been steered to other agencies, but said City Hall did so only because the Board of Education until now had suffered less than those agencies. In effect, he suggested, the books were being balanced.
At other agencies affected by the budget, there was barely a whisper of grumbling yesterday, though some city officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they planned to lobby City Council members privately. A year of bleak news on the city's economy seemed to have diminished expections, prompting most agencies to take whatever cuts they received in the Mayor's budget and be thankful there were not more. Moreover, just before releasing his budget, the Mayor had announced some programs, like the creation of 20 health clinics in poor neighborhoods, that may have taken the edge off potential criticism on the budget.
Joseph DePlasco, a spokesman for the Transportation Department, said that while the agency would have less money to repair potholes and replace street signs, "we are grateful that the budget for bridge repair and maintenance remained untouched."
And the Parks Commissioner, Betsy Gotbaum, said, "It's not too bad this year because there's really nothing left for them to take." Her budget for park maintenance was cut.
But the Mayor's school budget drew fire from one of his most important political supporters. Unhappy with his budget proposal and the pace of negotiations on a new contract, Sandra Feldman, president of the United Federation of Teachers, snubbed a fund-raising dinner for the Mayor's re-election campaign Monday night and said through a spokesman yesterday that she was reconsidering her support for his candidacy.
And in Albany, Assemblyman Angelo Del Toro, a Manhattan Democrat and chairman of the Assembly Education Committee, said he had always understood that the $67 million pledged by the Legislature would go directly to the school system. He said he was sending a letter to the Mayor signed by other colleagues protesting the Mayor's decision.
On Monday, the Mayor announced a $29.5 billion budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1, and it contained modest growth in spending by city agencies. But at the Board of Education, the $7.5 billion allocation for schools was seen as a betrayal.
"Everyone is enraged about it," said Stanley S. Litow, the deputy chancellor for operations.
What angered him and Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez was the Mayor's decision to steer to other city agencies the $67 million that state legislators had restored last month to the public schools. The money, it turned out yesterday, had been pledged to the city, not specifically to the Board of Education and so could legally be channeled anywhere the city saw fit.
 
Drastic Reductions Forecast

 Derek Wheeler, a deputy budget director, said the board had generally been on the winning end of earlier budget cuts by the state, and did not merit the restoration that the state voted last month.
Mr. Litow said if the Mayor's budget proposals are enacted by the City Council, the cuts for the board in the 1992-93 school year will total $151 million and compel drastic service reductions. These, he said, include an increase in class size in the elementary schools, deeper cuts in already threadbare supplies, attrition in the ranks of assistant principals and guidance counselors and reductions in the maintenance and painting of the city's decaying schools.
The threat of an increase in class size in the first, second and third grades from 25 pupils per room to 27 most worried leaders of educational advocacy groups. In 1984, the City Council invested money in rolling back early-grade class sizes that had crept up during the fiscal crisis. Since then class sizes for kindergarten through third grade have hovered around 25.
Most pupils learn to read and calculate in the early elementary-school grades, and students who do not grasp fundamental concepts often find it hard to catch up later. Indeed, many educators credit the reduced class sizes with stabilizing reading levels during the late 1980's and improving them in the 1990's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (70%); CITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (70%); CITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); ENROLLMENT MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (79%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (65%); TEACHER UNIONS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



910 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Israel Opposes U.S. Plan for Arab Panel at Talks

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Israel's Foreign Minister, David Levy, told Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d today that Israel would not take part in the regional peace talks on refugee matters and economic development if the United States continued to insist that Palestinian refugees from outside the West Bank and Gaza Strip be able to attend, Israeli officials said.
The United States and Russia formally issued the invitations on Monday for the five different regional talks, which are intended to accompany and support the core negotiations between Israel and its immediate Arab neighbors, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and the Palestinians. 
 Unlike the talks between Israel and her immediate neighbors, which focus on the issue of land for peace, the regional talks are supposed to bring together Israel, Saudi Arabia and a wide array of Arab countries, Europeans, and even China and Japan, to address problems that affect the Middle East region as a whole.
Five different regional working group sessions are scheduled for next month: talks on refugee problems in Ottawa on May 13, talks on economic development in Brussels on May 11, talks on the sharing of water resources in Vienna on May 12, talks on environmental issues in Tokyo on May 18 and talks on arms-control issues in Washington on May 11.
 
Separate Regional Talks
 The Palestinians boycotted the opening plenary of the regional talks in Moscow in January after the co-sponsors, the United States and Russia, refused to accredit their delegation because it contained Palestinian refugees who live outside the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Under the rules negotiated for the Madrid and Moscow peace conferences, only Palestinians from inside the occupied territories could take part.
The Palestinian negotiating team argued, though, that if issues like refugees and economic development were being discussed they had to be allowed to broaden their delegation to include Palestinian refugees from outside the occupied territories. The Israelis refused, saying that to include such refugees would be to imply that Israel is ready to discuss their right of return one day to their homes in Israel or the occupied territories, and it is not.
Israel said it was only ready to discuss a settlement with those Palestinians now living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The Israelis said those were the terms of Palestinian representation that they agreed to for the Madrid peace conference, and the Moscow regional conference, and therefore they also had to apply to the separate regional talks.
The Americans agreed with the Israelis, but said the rules of representation applied only to the Moscow and Madrid sessions. Mr. Baker insisted that different rules could be applied to the lower-level regional working group talks. In an effort to get the Palestinians to agree to take part, he said they could bring to the regional working groups on refugee matters and economic development Palestinian refugees from outside the occupied territories, provided that they are not members of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
 
Ground Rules in Dispute
 Briefing reporters on the Levy-Baker meeting, Israel's Ambassador to the United States, Zalman Shoval, said the Israeli side "raised some questions with regard to the multilateral talks -- as you know, there are still some points of disagreement between Israel and the United States on certain aspects of these talks."
Mr. Shoval said Mr. Levy "made our position very clear."
"We reiterated that Israel would not agree to participate in any working group in this peace process which does not function in accordance with the ground rules which had been set up originally for this whole process."
"It is very clear to us, and I think it should be very clear to anybody who knows anything about it, that the insistence of the Palestinians to include outside Palestinians or diaspora Palestinians in this process is in order to get the right-of-return question back into the whole process through the back door," he said. "Otherwise, there's very little reason why they should insist all of the sudden for so-called diaspora Palestinians to be included. And Israel will not agree to that."
 
Talks on Elections
 Mr. Baker, officials said, responded that Washington would not force Israel to talk with anyone it does not want to, but he did not intend to alter his position on Palestinian participation in the working groups.
The American view is that it would be meaningless to have discussion of refugee issues without the full range of Palestinian refugees in attendance.
Mr. Baker urged Mr. Levy to reconsider. Mr. Levy said that Israel felt it was being presented with a fait accompli in this delicate matter, and that was not conducive to negotiations.
Mr. Baker later told reporters that despite the reservations raised by Mr. Levy, the Israeli minister stopped short of giving a formal rejection of the American invitation for the working groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SPAIN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SPAIN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); BOYCOTTS (72%); ACCREDITATION (64%); WATER QUALITY (52%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); LEVY, DAVID (MIN); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



911 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: State Senate Passes Bill to Allow Queens to Begin Secession Effort

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 28

 BODY:
The State Senate approved legislation tonight that would allow the borough of Queens to begin the process of seceding from the City of New York.
But the bill, which is viewed here primarily as a vehicle for election-year grandstanding by Queens politicians, is not expected to pass the Assembly. A spokesman for Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, a Queens Democrat, said that Mr. Weprin believes that the Legislature should study Staten Island's secession efforts before giving the same authority to Queens. 
 The Legislature enacted a law in 1989 allowing Staten Island residents to vote on whether a commission should be formed to study the possibility of secession. The referendum was approved overwhelmingly in 1990 and the commission is at work.
 
Dinkins Opposes Bill
 "The Speaker's general feeling is we have another borough looking to secede right now and they're certainly farther along in the process," said Steven Greenberg, Mr. Weprin's press secretary.
Mayor David N. Dinkins opposes the bill. "There is no evidence of widespread dissatisfaction among Queens residents," the Mayor told the Legislature. "Even if there were, such dissatisfaction cannot justify the breakup of a city that has been in existence now for almost 100 years."
The Queens secession bill passed 34 to 20 in the Senate, which has a Republican majority. Senator Roy M. Goodman of Manhattan was the only Republican to vote against the bill. Senator Jeremy S. Weinstein of Queens was the only Democrat to vote for it.
The bill would give Queens voters the opportunity to vote in a referendum to establish a commission that would write a charter for the proposed city of Queens. With 1.9 million people, Queens would become the country's fourth largest city.
"I think the perception and the reality is that Queens County residents feel they are being shortchanged on services and that they are a dumping found for some of the socially undesirable projects that may do a lot for New York City but little for Queens County," said Senator Serphin R. Maltese, the Queens Republican who sponsored the bill. Senator Frank Padavan, another Queens Republican, said the idea of secession made sense because New York City had simply become too large and too unwieldy for Queens to get its fair share of the government's money and attention.
But Mr. Goodman said secession would hurt Queens. "In 1898, the separate parts of the city were put together and as a result of that action the city grew to be the greatest city in the world," he said. "To seek to separate it now would be like creating an explosion in a paint factory and would make little sense economically or socially."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS REPUBLICAN (97%); STATE SENATE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); POLITICS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



912 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Backs More Records on Bond Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Breaking ranks with both the Bush Administration and the Federal Reserve Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission endorsed legislation today that would make it easier for regulators to monitor the $2 trillion government securities market by requiring securities dealers to keep more thorough records.
Richard C. Breeden, the commission's chairman, told a House panel that any new legislation on the government securities market should require better record-keeping by dealers. He said such a measure would deter market abuses and make it much easier to prosecute them. 
 "It comes down to a simple question of do you want an honor system or do you not?" Mr. Breeden said to the members of the House Banking Committee's Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy. He has also sought greater authority for the commission to police the primary market and set the rules for trading in government securities.
 
Response to a Scandal
 The proposal to improve audit trails was made by some lawmakers after the scandal at Salomon Brothers became public last August. The firm has acknowledged that its traders tried to corner the market in several government securities.
Better audit trails have been opposed by both the Treasury and the Federal Reserve, which argue that the benefits of any new paperwork would be outweighed by the costs.
"We believe the prescription of reporting to the S.E.C. is overkill and not justified," said an Assistant Treasury Secretary, Jerome H. Powell. "We don't think this is a market shot through with problems."
At the hearing, David W. Mullins, the vice chairman of the Fed, said the Government's regular sales of notes, bills and bonds would be converted to a computer system by the end of the year, and he urged the lawmakers to refrain from acting before then.
"A legislative mandate is not needed," he said. "The board would prefer to see this run its course."
With only three lawmakers at the hearing, it was impossible to discern how Congress might act, or even whether it would act soon. Legislation has been pending for almost a year.
 
Proposals Announced
 At a briefing this afternoon at the White House, Mr. Breeden announced what he called 80 initiatives to reduce the regulatory burdens on companies seeking financing. The briefing was part of the White House's review of all Federal regulations.
All of the significant proposals described by Mr. Breeden had already been announced by the S.E.C. or disclosed by senior officials -- some of them months ago -- and many of the proposals remain months away from being finally acted upon.
Mr. Breeden said it was not inconsistent for him to argue for greater record-keeping requirements in the morning, and in the afternoon participate in the White House's much publicized efforts to cut red tape.
"There's nothing inconsistent, in my judgment, with trying to target regulation on the heart of wrongdoing, try and get the job that needs to be done and protect investors done, but do it with the lowest cost and the least interference with the workings of the marketplace as possible," he said. "I don't see any contradiction whatsoever."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, right, at a House Banking subommittee hearing on government securities trading yesterday. Jerome H. Powell, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, took notes. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); AUDITS (72%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; BREEDEN, RICHARD C (CHMN) RICHARD C BREEDEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



913 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Yields Flat On C.D.'s and Bank Funds

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit were flat for the week ended today, according to The Bank Rate Monitor. And as in the previous week, declines were smaller.
Robert K. Heady, publisher of the interest-rate publication, said he expected deposit rates to drift in their present range for a while before setting a definite course. 
 He said the slow, steady erosion in bank C.D. yields was an indication that banks were still not convinced that a bottom had been reached for this down cycle in interest rates. "This is despite the fact that yields on some government securities have ticked up recently," Mr. Heady said. "The jury is still out."
At the Treasury's closely watched auction of new three- and six-month bills, rates were mixed on Monday. The bill auction is usually held on the first day of each week and is considered by many rate watchers as a good barometer of what many banks could eventually end up paying their deposit customers.
The average discount rate for the three-month Treasury bill rose 3 basis points, to 3.71 percent, this week, up for the second consecutive auction, while the six-month bill slipped a basis point, to 3.85 percent, after a smart gain at the previous auction. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
Yields at New York-area banks fell slightly in the latest week, with the money market account and three-month certificate down 2 basis points, to 3.53 percent and 3.59 percent, respectively. The longer six-month C.D. was unchanged at 3.75 percent.
Broken down, the numbers show commercial banks making the larger cuts on C.D.'s, though they pay less than the savings banks. The commercial three- and six-month C.D.'s fell an average 2 basis points, to 3.39 percent and 3.48 percent, respectively, while the money market accounts remained unchanged at 3.28 percent.
Savings banks meanwhile, cut their three-month certificate a basis point, to 3.80 percent, and left the six-month at 4.01 percent. They did cut the money market accounts a little more, to 3.78 percent, down 3 basis points.
The largest yield adjustments among the area banks were at the Hudson City Savings Bank, based in Paramus, N.J., which reduced the yield on its money market account by 26 basis points, to 3.82 percent, and at Chase Manhattan; the commercial banks sliced a quarter of a percentage point off the yield of a three-month certificate, to 3.10 percent, and dropped the yield on a six-month certificate by 26 basis points, to 3.15 percent.
For 20 large banks outside the New York market, the yield declines were harder on money market accounts, which were down an average of 3 basis points, to 3.42 percent, with the average six-month certificate off a basis point, to 3.78 percent.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, April 29, 1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on themethod of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Bank of Boston	3.67	-0.10	3.82	0.00	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	3.45	0.00	3.75	0.00	Citibank, S.D.	3.68	-0.11	4.27	-0.11	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	3.50	-0.10	3.75	0.00	First Bank (Minnesota)	3.25	0.00	3.70	+0.05	First Interstate (L.A.)	3.04	0.00	3.61	0.00	First National (Chicago)	3.35	-0.05	3.66	-0.06	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	3.40	-0.10	3.60	0.00	Fleet Bank (Boston)	3.56	-0.15	3.82	0.00	Maryland Natl	3.60	0.00	3.90	-0.05	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	3.56	0.00	4.00	0.00	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	3.28	0.00	4.00	0.00	NationsBank (Atlanta)	3.25	0.00	4.01	0.00	National Bank (Detroit)	3.66	0.00	3.70	+0.10	NCNB Tampa	3.25	0.00	3.45	-0.25	Seafirst (Seattle)	3.25	0.00	3.65	0.00	Shamut Bank (Boston)	3.55	-0.16	3.60	-0.15	Texas Commerce (Houston)	3.04	0.00	3.82	0.00	Union Bank (S.F.)	3.51	-0.05	3.72	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	3.56	0.00	3.66	+0.06	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)
Table: Bank Money Accounts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCBK (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (75%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON CITY BANCORP INC (51%); NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (75%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); BONDS (79%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT K HEADY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



914 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew at 2% Rate in First Quarter

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
The economy grew at a 2 percent annual pace in the first three months of the year, the fourth straight quarterly gain and the best George Bush has witnessed as President, Commerce Department figures showed today.
The growth in gross domestic product -- the total output of goods and services by labor and operations in the United States -- was fueled by consumers, who account for 67 percent of the $4.89 trillion economy and who were inspired to spend by relatively warm weather and Government efforts to pad their wallets. 
 But optimism over the gain was tempered by a separate report of an unexpected 14.8 percent plunge in sales of new homes during March, the biggest drop in more than 10 years.
Still other economic indicators published today on consumer confidence and employment costs were mostly favorable but with their own weak points. Analysts said that altogether the data continued to point to a recovery that was likely to continue but would remain relatively subdued.
The White House, mindful that what appeared last spring to be a solid rebound subsequently flattened out, greeted today's data cautiously.
"I think most people would say that 2 percent growth is not recessionary," President Bush said when asked by reporters whether he thought the recession had ended. "There are some areas that are still hurting, but clearly this is a good sign."
Most private analysts agreed that for various reasons, including sharply lower short-term interest rates, recovery has now definitely taken hold and growth may even accelerate to as much as 3 percent or so in coming quarters.
Still, the National Bureau of Economic Research, the private-sector group charged with determining the beginning and end of recessions, has yet to schedule a meeting to declare an official end to the recession that began in July 1990. This is in spite of four consecutive quarters of growth rates averaging 1.4 percent a year. They followed two quarters of contraction averaging 3.2 percent that occurred at the end of 1990 and the beginning of 1991.
By comparison, recoveries since World War II have typically begun with 5 percent to 6 percent growth in the first 12 months.
Today's report on gross domestic product was largely as expected in its 2 percent annual rate of growth. The two top officials of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan and David W. Mullins Jr., both made midmonth predictions of 2 percent growth, a figure subsequently embraced by Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
 
Inventories Shrink
 But the report surprised some analysts in showing such a sharp drawdown of inventories. Inventories fell at a $26.1 billion pace during the first quarter after rising $7.5 billion in the October-December period, a swing that held back G.D.P. for the quarter but left the economy well positioned to benefit from sustained demand.
Final sales -- output minus inventory change -- spurted at a 4.8 percent rate, the biggest gain since the first quarter of 1988; sales had declined in the two preceding quarters.
This combination of lean stocks and stronger demand "sets up the conditions for stronger production gains in the second and third quarter," observed John E. Silvia, an economist for Kemper Financial Services in Chicago.
Spending on personal consumption, in fact, jumped even faster than final sales, rising at a rate of $42.7 billion, or 5.3 percent.
 
More Money to Spend
 "Consumers have repaid installment debt and taken advantage of lower interest rates to reduce interest payments on home mortgages," said J. Antonio Villamil, chief economist for the Commerce Department. This, he added, has increased discretionary income for consumers, who may have also been encouraged to spend during the quarter by reduced withholdings of income tax, part of the Administration's modest program of economic stimulus.
Other analysts pointed to other possible spurs to consumer spending, including unusually warm winter weather, earlier and larger tax refunds than usual, a Federal pay increase and a rise in various Government transfer payments, including extensions of unemployment benefits.
Over all, purchases by all levels of government rose at a 2.8 percent rate during the quarter, while international trade contributed modestly.
Investment by business, however, was a clear soft spot as spending fell for the sixth straight quarter. A small gain in spending for equipment was more than offset by another decline in spending for nonresidential structures, producing a 1.5 percent rate of decline.
Few analysts, however, believe that the consumer can continue the first-quarter spending spree. This is because some of the factors that put more money in the consumer's pocket in the first quarter will not recur and because both the job market and the growth of basic incomes remain relatively weak.
Partial evidence of this was in today's quarterly Labor Department report on employment costs, which presented an encouraging message of continued subdued inflation. Wages and salaries, however, grew only nine-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter, the same as in the preceding quarter and down from 1.1 percent in the comparable 1991 quarter.
Similarly, a Conference Board confidence survey showed a sharp rise in expectations about the future but said consumers were still uneasy about present circumstances.
On the other hand, the plunge in new-home sales was seen by many analysts more as an adjustment to exaggerated early-year gains than as a sudden March disaster. Edward F. McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, called the G.D.P. numbers "reassuring" and the home-sales decline simply "a reminder" that the recovery still has to overcome such obstacles as sluggish car sales, declining business investment and a shrunken military.
Other data in today's output report showed that the bulge in consumer spending during the quarter cut the savings rate -- personal savings as a percent of disposable personal income -- to 4.7 percent from 5.2 percent.
Inflation, as measured by the fixed-weighted price index covering all items bought by American residents, rose to a rate of 2.7 percent from 2.2 percent. This was a bit more than expected, but was said by the Commerce Department to mostly reflect the Federal pay increase that is treated as an increase in the price of purchased employee services.
G.D.P. in current dollars instead of constant 1987 dollars rose at a 4.9 percent pace during the first quarter, compared with 2.2 percent in the final three months of last year.
Corporate profits from current production for the fourth quarter of 1991, the department also reported, were revised downward by $1 billion at an annual rate.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Current Prices"

 	 	 		Last	Pct.	Current Prices	Quarter	Chg.	 	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$5,809.3	4.9	Consumption	4,023.5	8.3	Business investment	535.3	-2.7	Inventory change	-32.7	N.A.	Housing	209.8	14.1	Net exports	-22.7	N.A.	Government	1,096.1	6.3	Memo: Final sales*	5,842.0	7.8	1987 Prices	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$4,891.9	2.0	Consumption	3,313.8	5.3	Business investment	503.7	-1.5		 	 	Inventory Change	-26.1	N.A.	Housing	188.5	15.8	Net exports	-17.8	N.A.	Government	929.8	2.8	Memo: Final sales*	4,918.0	4.8	G.D.P. price deflator		2.1	G.D.P. fixed-weighted price index		3.1	 *G.D.P. less inventory change.
N.A. Data are not applicable.
(Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "Real Economic Growth" shows the annual rate of change in the gross domestic product from 1986-1992. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



915 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Small Stocks Getting Short Shrift

BYLINE: By SUSAN ANTILLA

 BODY:
Are small stocks worn out? From the looks of things in the past week, they are rather ragged. And analysts who make it their business to track stocks of small companies are heaping more and more scorn on them.
Perhaps the only thing going for stocks of companies with market capitalizations under $500 million is the contrarian view: nobody loves them, thus, there's likely some money to be made. 
 After reaching an all-time high of 644.92 on Feb. 12, the Nasdaq composite index has fallen 13.1 percent. In two weeks, the index, compiled primarily from smaller stocks, dropped 5.8 percent, to yesterday's 560.33.
 
Blue-Chip Indexes Steady
 All the while, indexes that track larger blue-chip companies have held relatively steady. The Dow Jones industrial average went on to hit six highs after the Nasdaq's peak, reaching its latest record of 3,366.50 on April 16. The Dow since dropped back to yesterday's 3,307.92 close, up 4.28 percent for the year, compared with an 8.08 percent drop this year for the Nasdaq.
So what ails the little companies? The carnage is largely the result of having come too far too fast. While the Standard & Poor's 500 gained 9.31 percent in 12 months, the Nasdaq composite soared 16.24 percent -- despite the pullback since February.
Though bargain-hunting is an inevitable temptation, analysts caution that it could be perilous for investors to fight the trend at the moment. Small stocks do best in a rapidly growing economy, points out Art Micheletti, director of research at the money management firm Bailard Biehl & Kaiser Inc. in San Mateo, Calif. But he is placing his bets on slow growth in the months ahead. Mr. Micheletti said a market timing model that he keeps flashed a sell signal for small stocks in February, and has not budged since.
Investors would do best to stick to large companies, he said. "You don't have to chase small caps," he explained. "You can buy big caps with good track records." Several drug stocks among these have fallen 20 percent from their 52-week highs, he added, noting that Warner Lambert looks particularly attractive at yesterday's $64.625 close.
Indeed, the investors who historically have turned in the most abysmal performance are the ones betting most heavily on stocks of small companies right now. Small investors who buy stock options have a notoriously bad record, said Donald Fishbach of the Cleveland-based Investment Research Institute, which studies patterns in options trading. Those folks are now quite bullish on little companies, heavily buying call options -- a bet on higher prices. "This is the dumb money and the dumb money is almost never right," Mr. Fishbach said.
Based on their heavy purchases of Microsoft call options, Mr. Fishbach is calling stock of that company "the No. 1 short for the rest of 1992." Meanwhile, what Mr. Fishbach calls "the old fuddy-duddy smokestack companies," like Alcoa, International Paper, and the auto makers, look attractive because they have not attracted the stock options players.
Contrarians who dare to buck the analysts' negative consensus on small stocks should keep in mind where the relative strength is. Small companies known for their fast growth prospects have been worst hit in the recent downturn, while stodgier small companies perceived as good values have not.
The T. Rowe Price Small Cap Value Fund, for example, has risen 8.97 percent so far this year, while T. Rowe Price's New Horizons Fund -- a small-company growth fund -- has fallen 9.57 percent. New Horizons lost 5 percent last week alone while the Small Cap Value Fund was up three-tenths of 1 percent.
The small stock indexes will not rally for another quarter or two, said Alan Radlo, who runs the Fidelity OTC Portfolio. It will take at least that long before investors begin to focus on 1993 earnings, which will turn the spotlight from cyclical stocks back to the small companies that are actually delivering earnings -- not promises. It will also take that long to rebuild investor confidence in the stock market generally, he added, saying, "You need new highs in the big caps to get all this jump-started again."
Patient investors might follow Mr. Radlo's brave advice to take advantage of the current disgust with small company stocks. He is buying shares of small health care companies and banks, including Wilmington Trust, First Tennessee National and St. Louis-based Mercantile Bancorp. "This is the time to buy solid companies cheap, as opposed to buying cheap companies," he said.
Such arguments do not persuade pessimistic technical analysts who shrug and point to history as their investment guide. Peter Eliades, who publishes Stockmarket Cycles, an investment letter, said secondary stocks tended to rally, then fizzle toward the end of a long bull market cycle, marking the last blast of speculation. "They have a run and then the big caps have a last fling," he said -- not unlike market action since January.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tracking Three Averages" shows the averages of Nasdaq composite index, Dow Jones industrial idex and Standard & Poor's industrial index. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATIC QUOTATIONS BAILARD BIEHL & KAISER INC (66%); INVESTMENT RESEARCH INSTITUTE INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATIC QUOTATIONS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BONDS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); 

PERSON: ANTILLA, SUSAN DONALD FISHBACH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



916 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances by 3.36, But the Market Is Lower

BYLINE: By Reuter

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose slightly yesterday in a late wave of buying, but the market was broadly lower, hurt by rising bond yields and losses in technology issues.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.36 points to close at 3,307.92, but declining issues outpaced gainers, 961 to 724, in heavy New York Stock Exchange volume of 189.2 million shares. 
 The Dow was lower for most of the session until a late wave of technical buying pulled the blue-chip index higher, traders said.
Analysts shrugged off the Dow rally and said the market remained vulnerable to a downturn.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 0.66 point, to 409.11. The American Stock Exchange index fell 1.94 points, to 383.04. The Big Board's Composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.18 point, to 225.12.
Reports that the economy grew in the first quarter and that consumer confidence rose sharply did little to improve sentiment on Wall Street.
The Government said gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate in the quarter, while a business group said consumer confidence rose in April to its highest level in seven months.
"Two percent growth in G.D.P. is good news but below what you would normally get at this stage in a recovery," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Company. "The recovery in earnings is clear but somewhat uninspiring."
Erosion among secondary and technology issues led the way yesterday and dragged the Nasdaq over-the-counter index below its 200-day moving average. The index fell 6.61 points, or 1.2 percent, to 560.33.
Gregory Nie, analyst at Kemper Securities, noted that broader indexes had been unable to match the Dow's speedy rise, a negative sign for the market in the near term.
Analysts said high bond yields were luring investors away from stocks, although the bellwether 30-year Treasury bond was up about half a point, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, cutting its yield to 8.06 percent from 8.11 percent Monday.
"We've already seen assets moved from the stock market to the bond market," Mr. Johnson said. "The institutions are starting to do that in a formal way. I am hoping we will see the Dow stabilize at 3,250. If it were to go below that, we could have a serious downdraft."
The growing popularity of Ross Perot, the Dallas billionaire, as a possible Presidential candidate was cited as a factor pulling down stock prices yesterday.
Kemper's chief investment strategist, Rao Chalasani, recommended a shift from stocks to cash. Among the factors he cited in a report, Mr. Chalasani said Mr. Perot's possible candidacy "brings increased uncertainty to the U.S. market."
Among individual issues, Unocal jumped 1 1/8, to 25 1/4, and was the second-most-active stock on the Big Board. Dean Witter upgraded the stock after the company announced a plan Monday to cut its debt.
Xerox rose 1 1/8, to 74 3/8. Traders said Merrill Lynch repeated a positive opinion on the company.
Boeing, which posted earnings Monday, fell 5/8, to 44 3/8.
General Motors rose 1/2, to 40 1/4, after reporting its first quarterly profits in nearly two years.
Financial shares dropped on nervousness about the real estate giant Olympia & York's financial situation. BankAmerica dropped 5/8, to 45 3/8; Chemical eased 3/8, to 35 5/8, and Chase Manhattan lost 1/2, to 26 1/2.
On the over-the-counter market, Centocor fell 1 3/8, to 13. The troubled biotechnology company announced the resignation of its chief executive.
Microsoft slipped 4 1/4, to 109, on the company's expectations of slower growth.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMMON STOCK (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); 

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (67%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



917 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Wages Post 0.9% Gain, Same as in Prior Period

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Pay and benefits for American workers rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter, the same gain as in the previous quarter, the Labor Department said today, indicating employers face little pressure to raise wages.
The department also reported that union contracts settled in the first quarter gave workers a 3 percent average annual raise over the life of the contract. That was down from previous raises. 
 "It's a case where workers, especially unions, realize that companies just don't have the money to add to wages," said Jean Sundrla, an economist at Evans Economics Inc. "They are more focused on job security and other benefits."
 
 
Down From Previous Year
 The rise of nine-tenths of 1 percent in pay and benefits was down from the 1.1 percent gain during the first quarter of 1991, the department said.
Much of the slowdown stemmed from smaller gains for government workers, whose compensation has been lagging behind that in private industry because of state and local governments' budget constraints.
The slight rise indicates that wage pressures are modest, said Kathryn Kobe, an economist at Joel Popkin & Company.
"Unemployment is high," she said, "and it puts people in a poor position to push for wage increases. It also shows that industries won't be facing a lot of wage costs."
In the 12 months ended in March, salaries and benefits of civilian workers, as measured by the Employment Cost Index, rose 4 percent, compared with a 4.6 percent rise in the previous 12-month period.
In private industry, workers' compensation rose 1 percent in the first quarter, the same as in the fourth quarter, but below the 1.2 percent rise in 1991's first quarter.
Wages and salaries for private- and public-sector civilian workers rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter of 1992, compared with a rise of nine-tenths in the fourth quarter and a 1.1 percent increase in the 1991 first quarter.
 
Variation in Data

 
 Benefit costs for civilian workers rose 1.3 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis in the first quarter after a 1.2 percent increase in the fourth quarter and a 1.4 percent rise in the first quarter a year ago.
The 3 percent wage gain in collective bargaining agreements was the first time in 11 quarters that settlements were lower than in the contracts they replaced. The previous contracts had given workers average annual increases of 3.2 percent over the contracts' lives and 3.4 percent in the first year, the department said.
The 36 new contracts, which covered 127,000 workers, raised wages 3.1 percent on average in their first year.
William Davis of the Bureau of Labor Statistics cautioned that the first-quarter numbers may not be the start of a downward trend because only 36 contracts expired or were renegotiated during the period. Between 100 and 200 contracts will be settled or renegotiated in the current quarter, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR UNIONS WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (79%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



918 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Retreats After Data Show Housing Weakness

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most foreign currencies in overseas trading yesterday but retreated later to end mixed in the United States, weakened by a plunge in domestic housing sales that suggested more economic weakness.
Gold prices rose marginally. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery fetched $336.90 a troy ounce, up 30 cents. At the Republic National Bank in New York, gold was quoted at $336.05 a troy ounce, up 5 cents from a day earlier. 
 Currency dealers said the dollar began the trading day with strength, particularly against the German mark, which has been hurt by Germany's economic problems, a public employee strike and the nation's vulnerability to political convulsions in neighboring republics of the former Soviet Union.
At the same time, however, the Commerce Department reported a 14.8 percent tumble in March housing sales, the worst monthly decline in a decade. When currency brokers saw that number they began to sell dollars, reasoning that the United States economy may be faltering or the outlook was at best unclear.
"After that, the dollar just kind of sagged through the day," said Carl Forcheski, a foreign exchange trader at the Chemical Bank in New York.
Still, many currency strategists said they did not expect the dollar to make any dramatic moves in the forseeable future.
They said the dollar continued to show notable strength against the mark, despite much higher interest rates in Germany that theoretically make investments there more attractive.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to 133.07 yen, from 133.65 yen Monday. Later in London, it closed at 133.30 yen. By the time trading concluded in New York the dollar fetched 133.20 yen, up from 132.95 yen Monday.
The British pound fell in London to $1.7750, from $1.7795 Monday. Later in New York the pound fetched $1.7768, cheaper than its $1.7775 exchange value Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with rates Monday, were: 1.6540 marks, unchanged; 1.5170 Swiss francs, down from 1.5235; 1.1957 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1971; 5.5770 French francs, down from 5.5775, and 1,243.25 Italian lire, down from 1,245.00.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); CHEMICAL BANK (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); JAPAN (52%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD CURRENCIES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); STRIKES (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



919 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Fell A Steep 14.8% in March

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
New-home sales suffered their steepest loss in more than 10 years last month, the Government said today. Declines were concentrated in the Northeast and the West.
Analysts said the surprisingly steep 14.8 percent drop in sales did not signal an end to the housing recovery, but did support forecasts that the economic rebound would be modest, even occasionally erratic. 
 They attributed the March decline to rising mortgage rates; uncertainty over attempts to enact a Federal tax credit for some home buyers, moves that eventually proved unsuccessful, and good weather in January and February, which lured sales to those months that otherwise might have been made in March.
 
A Note of Caution
 "It's a caution sign," said David F. Seiders, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders. The accompanying increase in inventories "suggests that builders put a bit more in the ground than demand warranted."
Sales in March totaled 513,000 at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, according to the report by the Departments of Commerce and Housing and Urban Development.
The drop was the steepest since sales plummeted 20 percent in January 1982, during the previous recession. It pushed the rate to its lowest level since a 499,000 reading in September.
Sales fell nationwide. The Northeast posted the biggest decline, down 31.4 percent, to a rate of 48,000. It was followed by the West, off 28.2 percent, to a rate of 127,000.
Sales were off 6.8 percent in the South, to 218,000, and eight-tenths of 1 percent in the Midwest, to 120,000.
The decline was the fourth for the housing industry since it began climbing out of its recession in February 1991. The revised 602,000 rate for February was weaker than the 613,000 in an earlier estimate.
Still, helped by a rate of 647,000 in January, sales so far this year are 24 percent higher than in the first three months of 1991.
The average sales price of a new home fell in March to $146,500 from $147,100 in February. The March price was down markedly from the average sales price of $156,400 in March of last year.
The median sales price last month rose to $119,900 from $118,000 in February but was down from $122,500 last year.
 Allen Sinai, an economist with the Boston Company Economic Advisers, said of the rise in sales that "there is a gradual housing upturn in process," but added, "the earlier burst was just not sustainable."
The March decline helped raise the seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale to 276,000, a supply of 6.5 months at the current sales rate.
The first jump in inventories since September followed four straight months of strong gains in construction of new houses and apartments.
As for existing homes, the National Association of Realtors reported on Monday that the pace of their sales had also slackened in March, remaining at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.49 million for a second straight month.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Prices of New Homes" shows the median price for new homes from Oct. '90-March '92. (Source: Commerce Department); "New-Home Sales" shows he number of new private homes sold during month from Oct. '90-March '92. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (77%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (62%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); CITIES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



920 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Fun, Games, Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
IMPERIAL Graham Cracker's troubles really began years ago, when management decided to coat with melt-resistant chocolate. The mega-losses came, though, only after hasty decisions to recoup falling revenues by diversifying into insecticides and laundromats. And now Imperial's heralded foray into the adult drinks market, a graham-flavored malt liquor called Macho Baby, is under fire from regulators.
With the creditors howling for their money, one might expect Imperial Graham to crumble. But thanks to the Chapter 11 provisions in the 1978 bankruptcy law, Imperial's managers may still live to make a few thousand more urgent business trips on the company's Gulfstream IV. Indeed, with a little luck in the draw of bankruptcy judges, the president may get the chance to invest Imperial's remaining cash on a scheme to recycle cookie crumbs. 
 Apocryphal? Sure. But bankruptcy law is widely faulted for the presumption that insolvent corporations are worth preserving -- and that management should be given a shot at pulling it off. Indeed, some critics of Chapter 11 want to go back to the future, advocating automatic liquidation if creditors cannot fashion a rescue on their own.
But three clever economists, Philippe Aghion (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development), Oliver Hart (M.I.T.) and John Moore (London School of Economics) argue they already have a better way. Building on an idea of Lucian Bebchuk at the Harvard Law School, they would give creditors an efficient method to assert their rights without prejudicing the decision to save or liquidate bankrupt companies.
Corporate reorganization under the eye of an impartial judge seems like a good idea. As a practical matter, however, Chapter 11 rarely works according to Hoyle because different classes of creditors have divergent interests.
Those with the highest priority claims may prefer the certainty of, say, 90 cents on the dollar through liquidation to a chance of full payment through reorganization. Junior creditors and stockholders, however, may have little to lose from keeping the company on a resuscitator. And judges, who often shrink from the duty of destroying jobs, are prone to give reorganizers the benefit of a doubt. Thus, Chapter 11 is typically a bazaar for negotiation, in which junior creditors have disproportionate bargaining power, and managers are often free to throw good money after bad.
Indeed, Michael Bradley at the University of Michigan and Michael Rosenzweig, a partner in the Atlanta law firm of Rogers & Hardin, argue that Chapter 11 is an irremediable mess that leads to the misallocation of capital. Their study in the March 1992 Yale Law Journal concludes that protection against summary liquidation has led to net losses for stockholders, as well as creditors.
But the Aghion-Hart-Moore team believes such pessimism is premature. In a paper, to be published later this year by the National Bureau of Economic Research, the economists start with Professor Bebchuk's remarkable prescription for eliminating conflicts between creditors.
Under the Bebchuk approach, the debts of a bankrupt company would be canceled. All the stock would be divided among senior creditors in proportion to the sums they are owed.
Junior creditors would receive options to buy this stock from senior creditors at a price that covered the debts to senior creditors. And the original stockholders, in turn, would get options to buy the options from junior creditors at a price that would cover every penny the company owed.
This would go a long way toward repairing the flaws in Chapter 11. Shares and options would be freely tradable, effectively creating a market for previously illiquid debts. Control of the business would not be a matter for negotiation, but one of amassing a majority of shares and options. Best of all, every former creditor and equity holder in the firm would have a parallel interest in maximizing the value of its assets.
But the three economists suggest one more step is needed to insure that entrenched managers do not take advantage of their insiders' position. The bankruptcy judge would solicit outside offers for the company's assets. And after giving shareholders and option owners a few months to rearrange their portfolios in light of the bids, the judge would supervise a vote on liquidation.
If a majority voted to liquidate, the sale would proceed. If it did not, the court would withdraw, leaving the reorganized company free of debt.
Skeptics doubt all creditors could establish their claims on the tight schedule needed for efficient reorganization. But Mr. Hart notes that stragglers could always be paid later, in newly created shares of the reorganized business.
Would it all work? Perhaps not so slickly as a first look suggests. The better question, though, is whether it would work better than Chapter-11-as-usual. That is not a hard one at all.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (72%); INSECTICIDES (72%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); JUDGES (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; HART, OLIVER (PROF); MOORE, JOHN (ECONOMIST); AGHION, PHILIPPE OLIVER HART (70%); LUCIAN BEBCHUK (69%); GRAHAM CRACKER (62%); JOHN MOORE (57%); PHILIPPE AGHION (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



921 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Backs Aircraft Deal

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, April 28

 BODY:
The Taiwan Government has decided to support a plan by the Taiwan Aerospace Corporation to invest $2 billion in the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, according to Economic Minister Vincent Siew. But the deal is still subject to final review by the Parliament in Taiwan and by the United States Government.
Mr. Siew gave his support to the joint venture in a statement summarizing a feasibility study prepared for Wednesday's parliamentary hearing. Copies of the report were distributed to legislators earlier this week. "The joint venture contains high risks but great opportunities," Mr. Siew said in the report. 
 Lin Sou-shan, a legislator of the governing Nationalist Party, said most legislators were undecided on whether to support the project. "The investment will have a long-term impact," he said. "We still have our doubts, and we need more details on the joint venture."
Taiwan Aerospace, 29 percent Government-owned, signed an agreement in November to acquire up to 40 percent of McDonnell Douglas's commercial aircraft operations. Under the agreement, Taiwan Aerospace will build wings and fuselages for the McDonnell Douglas MD-12, a new wide-body passenger jet.
Mr. Siew gave no indication how much the Government would invest in the project. Opposition legislators have opposed the deal, saying Taiwan should not buy shares in a commercial aircraft maker with financial problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (93%); AEROSPACE CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); AIRLINES (71%); AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); 

PERSON: VINCENT SIEW (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



922 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: There in the Crystal Ball, Forecasters Are Thriving

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
OVERNIGHT, national boundaries have dissolved. Bitter enemies have suddenly become friends, while former compatriots go to war. Once-secure bank jobs disappeared without warning, as did the banks that symbolized all that was solid and dependable. Even the weather isn't what it once was.
When the world seems unpredictable, there is one business that thrives: predicting the future. Whether they stare at palm lines or trend lines, people who believe that they have some ability to forecast events of the next day, the next year or even the next decade are finding a growing demand for their services. 
 "Shocking things -- good or bad -- scare people," said Arnold Brown, chairman of Weiner, Edrich, Brown Inc., a consulting firm in New York. The restructuring of the economy brings a lot of pain. The end of the Cold War ought to have generated happiness, he said. But because it caught people by surprise, he said, it left them angry. "For powerful people, it strikes at their core to think they don't have control," Mr. Brown said.
A number of consultants who specialize in forecasting the future, and who call themselves futurists, said in interviews that their business has picked up markedly in the last year or so. Chief executives are showing more interest in the future than they did in the 1980's, according to Leaders magazine, a publication for C.E.O.'s. The magazine is responding to their interest by running more future-oriented articles like "The Future's Greatest Inventions" and "Leadership in the 21st Century."
And while sober researchers in think tanks may believe they have nothing in common with psychics and astrologers, those who use intuition to forecast the future are also finding a growing interest in their services.
A proliferation of both computer software for creating charts and "900" numbers for telephone consultations have made astrology more pervasive and more accessible. Even the elite among psychics and astrologers, who charge more than $100 an hour, now offer sessions by telephone and accept credit cards.
"I have people I've never seen," said Joy Herald, a psychic in New Jersey who said her business has gone up since she began the telephone consultations three years ago.
Earlier this month, more than 1,500 astrologers attended the United Astrology Congress in Washington to discuss matters like "No Nonsense Mundane Forecasting." That was a big jump over attendance at the last convention three years ago, which drew about 1,000 people, according to organizers.
"There is a definite revival going on," said Angel Thompson, an astrologer in Venice, Calif., who edits the newsletter for the Association for Astrological Networking, which has 1,000 members worldwide. The interest in astrology shown by Ronald and Nancy Reagan had an effect. "That changed minds," she said.
Ms. Thompson has not seen this much interest in astrology since the early 1970's. "People are desperate," she said. "They see an economy that's a disaster. They see a government that's totally corrupt. They are willing to try anything."
But even the business of forecasting is not without its uncertainty. The economic crunch has hurt some astrologers and psychics because clients must conserve money for here-and-now needs like food and rent.
While many companies may be hiring outsiders to do some consulting, there is no boom in staff jobs for futurists. "I don't see any indication that corporations are hiring staff to do forecasting," said Barbara Samuels, a vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank and president of the Council for International Business Risk Management.
Tom Mandel, a futurist at SRI International, a consulting company in Menlo Park, Calif., said that while his business had picked up, many people may have concluded that analyzing the future is a waste of time.
"There are a lot of ways people are adjusting to turbulence and change," he said. "One way to deal with this is to say, 'Let's just coast the waves.' "
The futurists who find their client list growing say they are in demand because rapid global change and a persistent recession have overturned old expectations. But the approach of the year 2000 may be a factor, too.
"The millennium is functioning as a psychological landmark," said Joseph Coates, president of Coates & Jarratt Inc., a forecasting firm in Washington. "It seems to be acting as an excuse for stock-taking. It's seen as a transition point for the economy and society."
Mr. Coates said he was selling projects to companies that would not have garnered interest five years ago, like an analysis of technology's impact in the next 35 years.
Maybe because so many past forecasts turned out to be wrong, like ones for fusion energy and the paperless office, clients are more skeptical, he said. "Rather than asking about the future, they want to know, what are the alternative ways the future can evolve," he said.
Long-range studies, though, tend to be the exception, not the rule. Most spinners of tomorrow's tales propel themselves not into the distant future, but into next year and the year after. That's very different from the late 1960's, when practitioners blithely looked ahead 100 years.
"At that time, you could think about the future and it was a pleasant thing to contemplate," said Michael Marien, editor of Future Survey, a monthly abstract of books, articles and reports about the future that is published for 2,400 subscribers by the World Future Society in Bethesda, Md. "I think there's a lot of fear of the future," he said. "You can't talk with too much authority about what's coming."
Futurists scan information from a vast array of sources. They provide reports to clients and hold meetings in which they discuss what the trends might mean for particular businesses. Basically, they are just astute observers who try to put together disparate pieces of a puzzle.
There is a lot of money, consultants say, for practical marketing-oriented advice, but little financing from government and private sources for long-range future fantasies.
Clients want that practical advice. "Hardly anybody is interested in a forecast 10 or 15 years out," said David Snyder, a futures consultant who is a partner in the Snyder Family Enterprise in Bethesda, Md. "They say, tell me what is going on now." His business, he said, was up about 15 percent last year over the year before. A similar burst occurred in the last recession. "As soon as apparent prosperity came back, business dropped off," he said.
Clients want to know what is going on worldwide so that they can decide on tactics and strategy.
"Things are changing so rapidly that to do business as you've always done it -- you're going to die," said Dolores Schatz, director of strategy and planning for Nynex, the telephone company based in White Plains.
Smart businesses, she said, are becoming like good poker players: they pay attention to everything that is happening. "Unless you are doing a really good job of monitoring your operating environment," she said, "things will blindside you."
When life appears clearer, forecasters seem less necessary. "If you can see to the horizon, anticipating the future is no trick," said Joel Arthur Barker, the head of Infinity Limited Inc., a consulting company in St. Paul. "Right now there is a lot of fog out there."
For an individual who cannot call in a futurist, a psychic or astrologer may be a substitute. It is impossible to know how many people visit these specialists, or how they regard the advice they receive. But the practice is becoming so much more mainstream that a number of spas now offer astrological readings and consultations with psychics. A year ago, the Sonoma Mission Inn and Spa in Sonoma, Calif., began offering guests the services of a tarot-card reader. "It still isn't as popular as a facial or a massage, but we get very positive comments from it," said William Blum, a company spokesman.
With chaos the defining concept of the age, approaches once derided for their nonrational base seem less dubious. "Science is turning out to be as much of a psychic game as anything else," said Nancy Stark, who reads palms at Raoul's Brasserie, a restaurant in SoHo.
Jill Goodman, who reads charts and tarot cards, said that for a long time she resisted the idea that she could be aware of events that had not yet happened. But when her forecasts turned out to be accurate, she began to respect cards and charts as legitimate tools.
The customers for psychics include fast-food cashiers and Wall Street traders. Averi Torres, a psychic in Malibu, Calif., who charges $275 an hour for an initial consultation, said most of her clients are entrepreneurs. "People who are educated know they need advice from as many sources as possible," she said.
While some futurists believe that their business is booming because times are bad and people are scared, Marvin Cetron, president of Forecasting International in Arlington, Va., attributes the surge to a growing belief that the recession is ending. His clients are trying to figure out the best places to put money now so they can profit from the coming prosperity.
There is, of course, another explanation offered by astrologers for all this future thinking. They say that the transit of Saturn through the sign of Aquarius, which last happened in 1962, is bringing interest in new and unconventional ways of learning.
But a word of warning: the current Uranus-Neptune conjunction, which comes around only once every 200 years, also promises sudden and unexpected change.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors at the United Astrology Congress in Washington earlier this month inspecting software that charts the position of the sun and the planets. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEINER, EDRICH, BROWN INC

ORGANIZATION: WEINER, EDRICH, BROWN INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; ASTROLOGY ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); TRENDS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COLD WAR (73%); PAY PER CALL (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH; BROWN, ARNOLD RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



923 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
America's Red Diaper Baby: The Left

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:

The Rise and Fall of the American Left
By John Patrick Diggins
Illustrated. 432 pages. W. W. Norton. $22.95.
As a political idea and force in the United States, what's left of the left? Of the old reformist-minded left, the Marxist-oriented left, the more moderate democratic left? 
 After the downfall of the dictatorial Soviet and Soviet-dominated states, nationalism, ethnicism and tribalism have reappeared in several corners of the world. Political parties once considered on the left are in disarray in western Europe. What do these revolutionary changes and elections like the Labor Party's recent loss in Britain signify for the American left, if there still is one?
To help clarify what's happening requires a historian's long view. The necessary enlightenment appears in "The Rise and Fall of the American Left," by John Patrick Diggins, distinguished professor of history at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. It updates the facts he presented in his 1973 work, "The American Left in the 20th Century."
His new book is a highly readable account of American radicalism and the liberal impulse that resulted in major reforms in this century. Professor Diggins says we live in a curious time in the United States; the class war has been lost in the factories and fields. He maintains that the left no longer has political significance but still has educational influence in the battle for "cultural hegemony" on college campuses.
The most important point the author makes -- and it's one that the old Congressional un-American activities committees, the latent McCarthyites, the radical right and its neo-conservative cousins never acknowledged -- is this: "The American left was born in the United States."
"Contrary to popular belief, it was not the product of foreign powers and alien ideologies," he writes. "Although each left generation would have its rendezvous with European Marxism, Marxist ideas were usually embraced to support a radical movement that had already come into being. Most left intellectuals and activists in America read Thomas Jefferson and Walt Whitman before they read Karl Marx or, later, Mao Zedong, and many caught the flame of William Jennings Bryan or John Fitzgerald Kennedy before they felt the fascination of V. I. Lenin or Fidel Castro."
"The Rise and Fall of the American Left" is especially informative about the differences between leaders of the left and their aims in the 20th century. Professor Higgins divides the left's history into four groups: the Lyrical Left, the Old Left, the New Left and the Academic Left. Although these labels are arbitrary and they overlap, they do serve as useful signposts.
The Lyrical Left is placed before and after World War I, when Greenwich Village and environs was home to Socialists, anarchists, single taxers, suffragists, birth-control advocates and politicized poets. On the front lines of social and personal revolt were such legendary figures as John Reed, Max Eastman, Morris Hillquit, Emma Goldman, Mabel Dodge, Edna St. Vincent Millay and Margaret Sanger.
Their radical influence extended far beyond New York; writing about them in 1912, the artist John Butler Yeats said, "The fiddles are tuning as it were all over America."
Professor Diggins says the Massachusetts trial and execution of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti, the Italian anarchists, was the rallying cry in 1927 for the Lyrical Left. John Dos Passos captured the shock of the execution in his 1936 novel, "The Big Money."
The Old Left is linked to the Depression. Its high points were the Spanish Civil War (Americans who served in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade against Generalissimo Franco's Fascists were listed in Federal Bureau of Investigation files) and Stalin's Moscow trials. The Old Left was convulsed by the purge of former Bolshevik leaders; the phony trials aggravated the split between the Trotskyites and those who continued to look to Moscow for guidance.
After World War II, the cold war discredited the Old Left in the eyes of the younger generation. The Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe caused many Old Leftists to realize that democratic freedom and one-party rule were incompatible. In this country, the assault against individual liberties by home-grown McCarthyites briefly gave the Old Left scattered sympathy but not political influence. After the failure of the revolution abroad, few veteran leftists were able to sustain their vital spirit.
To define the New Left's posture in the 1960's, the author quotes Jerry Rubin, one of its standard-bearers: "Communism? Who the hell knows from Communism? We never lived through Stalin. We read about it, but it doesn't affect us emotionally. Our emotional reaction to communism is Fidel marching into Havana in 1959."
The growth of American militarism and the Vietnam war, Professor Diggins says, "dramatized to young antiwar dissenters the powerlessness of idealism." But unlike Big Bill Haywood, the Wobblies and early radicals who had come out of the labor movement, the New Leftists had come out of the colleges. The New Left emerged in Madison, Wis., Ann Arbor, Mich., and Berkeley, Calif.; the author writes respectfully of such ideological groups as Students for a Democratic Society, founded at the University of Michigan in 1961.
Today's controversies over higher education find a home in Professor Diggins's Academic Left. At its center is the dispute over multi-culturalism and political correctness on campus.
If there is a shortcoming in Professor Diggins's book, it is that he doesn't reach back far enough into American reformist history. Nor does he place enough emphasis on the truly radical reforms achieved during the Administrations of the two Roosevelts, Theodore and Franklin, the first by regulatory agencies and trustbusting during the muckraking era, the second by New Deal legislation that remains so deeply ingrained in American lives that only one President since the 1930's, Ronald Reagan, tried to weaken the social gains in the name of privatization.
Child-labor laws, safety in the workplace, minimum wages, unemployment insurance, Social Security, environmental concerns: all were once denounced as Socialistic and un-American. Particularly in a Presidential election year, Professor Diggins's "Rise and Fall of the American Left" deserves to be read and pondered to understand the evolution of once radical ideas into accepted reforms.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Patrick Diggins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RISE AND FALL OF THE AMERICAN LEFT, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); HISTORY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WRITERS (66%); WORLD WAR I (65%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; DIGGINS, JOHN PATRICK JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



924 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Deputy Chairman Is Named To the Top Barclays Post

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

 BODY:
Andrew R. F. Buxton, deputy chairman and managing director of Barclays P.L.C., was named yesterday to succeed Sir John Quinton, who has been chairman and chief executive of Barclays, Britain's largest bank, since 1987.
Leaks to the British press last week that Sir John would step down caught analysts by surprise and generated speculation that the Barclays board, angry about the bank's poor performance, had suddenly forced out Sir John. 
 But Sir John, who who is 62 and underwent heart surgery two years ago, told The Times of London that his retirement had been planned for several months. "There has been no board room coup," he said. Mr. Buxton, 53, will become chief executive on May 1 and chairman at the end of the year.
There is no questioning the need for drastic steps at Barclays, which has been hit hard by its slowness to control rising costs, expensive ventures into Continental Europe and bad loans in Britain and the United States. It is a big lender to troubled companies with large real estate holdings, like Olympia & York in Canada and Heron International and Speyhawk in Britain.
Last year, Barclays took a charge of 1.76 billion, or $3.28 billion, to cover bad and doubtful loans, and its earnings fell by 59 percent, to 242 million, or $452 million. The bank was $179.3 million in the red after paying its dividend.
Analysts yesterday questioned whether Mr. Buxton, as a quintessential insider, was the man to shake up Barclays and improve its performance. Mr. Buxton is a member of one of the founding families of the banks that merged to form Barclays. Most Barclays chairmen have come from those families. Sir John was a rare exception.
"A lot of criticism leveled at Quinton has been fair, but it is also something that could be leveled at the whole management team," said Christopher Wheeler, an analyst at Lehman Brothers International.
Mr. Buxton, who read politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford University, joined a fast-track management program at Barclays in 1963. He worked in branches and served stints in the United States and in various regional management positions in Britain.
In 1979, he was appointed general manager in charge of the bank's corporate division. During the recession of the late 1970's and early 1980's, he headed a unit that worked with troubled corporate customers. He became vice chairman in 1985, managing director in 1988 and deputy chairman last year.
As managing director, Mr. Buxton has been responsible for the bank's day-to-day operations. To the concern of analysts, no plans were announced yesterday for him to relinquish that job.
Mr. Buxton is married and has two daughters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (96%); BARC (LSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC BARCLAYS PLC (96%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); HERON INTERNATIONAL PLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARCLAYS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; BUXTON, ANDREW R F; QUINTON, JOHN (SIR) SIR JOHN (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



925 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN
Woman in the News: Lynn Hardy Yeakel;
Skillful Political Novice

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 28

 BODY:
Last Thanksgiving Porter Hardy Jr., a retired Congressman from Portsmouth, Va., bluntly told his daughter, Lynn H. Yeakel: "This ain't no time to be in Washington."
But Ms. Yeakel, a 50-year-old fund-raiser for women's charities, also listened to other advisers. Like her, they were outraged by the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearings on Judge Clarence Thomas's nomination for the Supreme Court, and they were also confident that it was the right year to shake up that most exclusive of men's clubs, the United States Senate. 
 "If it hadn't been for those hearings," Ms. Yeakel (pronounced YAY-kul) said in an interview Monday, "it never would have occurred to me to run against Arlen Specter. He's a frightening adversary."
On Feb. 6 she began campaigning in the Democratic primary contest for a chance to challenge Mr. Specter, the state's two-term Republican Senator. Her candidacy was summed up in newspaper headlines like one in The Philadelphia Inquirer on March 13: "Unknown, Inexperienced -- and Sure She Can Win."
Political analysts say Ms. Yeakel ran a flawless campaign, quickly establishing herself with a television advertisement that seemed to capture the mood of voter disgust with Washington. The commercial uses a segment of the televised hearings in which Mr. Specter, a former Philadelphia district attorney, questions Prof. Anita F. Hill of the University of Oklahoma about her sexual-harassment accusations against Judge Thomas. Ms. Yeakel then appears on screen and asks, "Did this make you as angry as it made me?"
Today, many voters apparently said yes, it did.
Ms. Yeakel says those hearings were a landmark in advancing the political candidacies of women, and she said it most forcefully in a recent interview on WHYY-FM public radio in Philadelphia.
"I believe that the backlash from those hearings is somewhat stronger than anyone has documented yet," she said, "and that in history we're going to see the Hill-Thomas hearings as being the turning point for American women in terms of really stepping forward, taking political power, using the vote, using our money to elect the candidates who represent our values and stand for our rights."
But Ms. Yeakel, who is trying to avoid being cast as a single-issue candidate, emphasizes that women's issues are everybody's issues. "I am running as a champion of women's issues, which are issues that are central in this society and include child care, pay equity, housing, education, jobs and the economy," she said Monday.
Lynn Hardy Yeakel was born July 9, 1941, in Portsmouth to Lynn Moore, a school teacher from Tennessee, and Porter Hardy Jr. Her younger brother, Porter Hardy 3d, died in a car accident in 1986.
Although she waited 50 years to run for public office, she has a personal knowledge of politics and Washington. She was 5 years old when her father began serving his first of 11 terms in the House, and she went to school in Alexandria, Va., with some of Dwight D. Eisenhower's grandchildren.
Her father once took her to hear Harry S. Truman's State of the Union Message. She also remembers meeting Queen Elizabeth at a British Embassy party, dancing with President John F. Kennedy at the White House and having Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson pick up a pack of cigarettes that she had dropped at that party.
"One of the things I took for granted was that I was as good as anybody else," she said.
In 1963 she graduated, Phi Beta Kappa, from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., and then worked at an advertising firm in New York. In 1965 she met Paul M. Yeakel on a blind date; six months later they married. "It was her brains and beauty," explained Mr. Yeakel, now a senior vice president of Kidder, Peabody & Company.
The couple have two children, Courtney, 24, a second-year law student at Boston University School of Law, and Paul Jr., 23, a third-year student at Wooster College in Wooster, Ohio. Ms. Yeakel likes to play tennis, lift weights and read mysteries, her husband said.
The Yeakels have lived in Rosemont, an affluent suburb on the Main Line in Philadelphia, for about 25 years. During most of those years Ms. Yeakel was a homemaker and volunteer in community organizations, serving on the board of trustees at Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church. In 1980 she helped found Womens Way, an organization that has raised up to $2 million a year for 35 women's groups that provide shelters for battered women, job training, health care and housing. Until she began campaigning she was executive director of the organization, which now has chapters in 15 states.
About the worst thing her friends say about Ms. Yeakel is that she tends to be a perfectionist and tends to overextend herself. "She absolutely refuses to let anything get in her way once she set her mind to it," said Patricia D. Henkels, a member of the board of Americans for Democratic Action.
Ms. Yeakel's fund-raising skills and her family wealth have come in handy. She has contributed or lent a total of $280,000 to her campaign and raised $550,000 more from 2,600 contributors. "She's run an almost textbook-perfect campaign," said Michael L. Young, professor of politics and public affairs at Pennsylvania State University in Harrisburg. "And she's had some lucky breaks, too."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY ; SUPREME COURT (US) PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER (63%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY ; SUPREME COURT (US) UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION RESULTS; VOTER BEHAVIOR; WOMEN; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SEXUAL HARASSMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WOMEN (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PUBLIC RADIO (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); CHARITIES (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, ARLEN (SEN); YEAKEL, LYNN ; YEAKEL, LYNN (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; THOMAS, CLARENCE (ASSOC JUSTICE); HILL, ANITA F (PROF) CLARENCE THOMAS (89%); ARLEN SPECTER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



926 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Grand Jury Indicts Ex-Aide To Reagan's Housing Chief

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Deborah Gore Dean, executive assistant to the Reagan Administration's Housing Secretary, was indicted today on charges of soliciting and accepting an illegal gratuity and making a false statement to the Senate.
The indictment of Ms. Dean, a top aide to Housing Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr., brought to six the number of people indicted or convicted in the investigation of the scandal-plagued Department of Housing and Urban Development during the Reagan years. 
 A Federal grand jury charged Ms. Dean with seeking and receiving $4,000 from an unidentified person in connection with that person's requests for a grant under the department's Moderate Housing Rehabilitation program. The program provided rental subsidies and tax credits to developers who rehabilitated low-income housing.
 
Nomination Not Confirmed
 She was also charged with making a false statement to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in denying that she was not involved in "potential conflicts of interest." The written statement, submitted on April 29, 1987, was made in connection with her nomination as Assistant Secretary for community planning and development in the housing department. The nomination never reached the Senate floor, and she was not confirmed.
If convicted of both charges, Ms. Dean would face a maximum penalty of seven years in prison.
Arlin M. Adams, the independent counsel who is investigating allegations of mismanagement, influence-peddling and favoritism in the department, said in a statement that the indictment was returned today to avoid the five-year statute of limitations.
Moreover, the indictment preserves the independent counsel's ability to obtain a superseding indictment, if warranted by a continuing investigation of her activities.
Ms. Dean strenuously denied the charges at a news conference today.
"I am outraged and saddened by today's indictment," she said. "I am innocent of all charges. They have hoped by threatening to ruin my reputation with an onslaught of accusations that I would relent, plead guilty, testify against my bosses at H.U.D. and in doing so, become an enthusiastic accomplice in the pursuit of their brand of justice. I'm not going to do that."
But she then acknowledged that there were problems at the department. "I am not saying that there weren't bad apples at H.U.D.," she told reporters. "Some people sold influence," she added, but she declined to say who they were.
She said that she was aware of the $4,000 referred to in the indictment, and that it "involves a close friend." But she refused to discuss any circumstances surrounding the money.
 
Response From Lawyers
 Her lawyer, Stephen V. Wehner, said, "This story will be told completely as soon as we get into a courtroom."
Mr. Pierce said in a statement issued by his lawyer, Paul L. Perito: "This accusation is inconsistent with her conduct as I knew it when she worked for me for several years at H.U.D. She is well represented, and I trust that there will be a speedy exoneration."
So far, two people have been convicted and three others have been indicted in the investigation of H.U.D. during Mr. Pierce's eight-year tenure.
DuBois L. Gilliam, an aide to Mr. Pierce, served an 18-month prison sentence after pleading guilty to conspiracy and gratuities charges in 1989.
 
Income Tax Evasion
 Last February, Samuel P. Singletary, a New York businessman close to Mr. Pierce, pleaded guilty to attempting to evade taxes on income he received from a consulting firm that had a grant from the housing agency.
The Federal grand jury also previously indicted Victor R. Cruse, a former Connecticut housing official and business associate of Paul J. Manafort, a Republican political consultant. Mr. Cruse was charged with lying to the grand jury and obstruction of justice in connection with Mr. Manafort's alleged efforts to block a H.U.D. grant to a housing project in Georgia because a bank had refused to finance his company's bid to buy the project.
Also awaiting trial are Lance H. Wilson, Mr. Pierce's former executive assistant, who was indicted on charges of fraud, conspiracy and making false statements, and Leonard E. Briscoe, a Texas real estate developer indicted on charges of filing false statements to obtain a $2.4 million H.U.D. grant.
Ms. Dean, 37 years old, joined the department in November 1982 as special assistant to Secretary Pierce. She became his executive assistant in June 1984, and resigned in July 1987 after her nomination as Assistant Secretary failed.
Before working for the Government Ms. Dean was a part-time bartender and publisher of "City Life," a life style magazine in Washington. She now runs an antique store in the Georgetown section of Washington.
Saying she looked forward to a chance to face her accusers in the courtroom, she asserted: "It's been five years for me. I want this over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deborah Gore Dean at a news conference yesterday in Washington after her indictment. (Lisa Berg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BRIBERY; ETHICS; FEDERAL AID (US); PERJURY; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (95%); GRAND JURY (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); SCANDALS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ETHICS (76%); CITIES (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); TAX LAW (69%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: DEAN, DEBORAH GORE; TOLCHIN, MARTIN; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; PIERCE, SAMUEL R JR RONALD REAGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



927 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. ANNOUNCES A WELFARE POLICY

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Deciding they need substance as well as scandal to make major gains in the November elections, House Republicans today unveiled the first of several legislative proposals they plan to introduce to show they are serious about domestic policy.
Today's example demanded work from welfare recipients. 
 The proposal would require recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children, if their children were 3 years of age or older, to work part time or go to school to remain eligible for benefits. It would also set a limit of four years' eligibility for benefits; after that, a welfare recipient would be expected to find a full-time job.
The proposal was introduced at a news conference here and was later echoed at 90 or so sessions around the country, where Republicans running in open seats or against Democrats announced their support of the plan.
 
'We Have the Ideas'
 Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the second-ranking House Republican, said the sessions were intended to show that "we have the ideas to solve real problems."
He said other topics of the monthly sessions would include education, health care, crime and litigation. In October, the House whip said, Republican candidates from all over the nation would be invited to come to the Capitol and pose for a picture with President Bush as a demonstration of teamwork.
"Most Americans know they're angry," Mr. Gingrich said at the news conference. "They want to know what you're going to do about their anger."
The Republicans, who now hold 166 House seats to the Democrats' 268, would need to gain 52 seats in the November election to win control of the 435-member body and carry out their plans. One seat is currently is held by an independent.
Mr. Gingrich said the Republicans constituted a "team for change" and would pass these proposals in the first 90 days of a new Congress if only the voters put them in charge.
The way Republicans were using the Gingrich initiative was shown by Bill Cleveland, one of five Republican candidates who attended the session here.
After Mr. Cleveland had listened and stood silently with Mr. Gingrich and other Republican lawmakers, his aides handed out a press release saying:
"Washington, D.C. -- Alexandria Vice Mayor and Eighth District Congressional candidate Bill Cleveland today announced a national welfare reform package, and pledged to work to enact the plan once he is elected to Congress."
Afterward at a news conference with Mr. Gingrich and Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, Mr. Cleveland said: "The welfare state, despite the noble intentions of its founders, has become an albatross around the neck of our economy and our society. By reducing and even removing the inducements for holding down a steady job and keeping families together, what was meant to be a short-term assistance for tough times has become a wretched life style, passed down from generation to generation.' "
In other places, candidates broadcast the Washington news conference over loudspeakers for half an hour and then explained their support for the proposal.
Mr. Gingrich said 95 non-incumbent candidates were backing the proposal, a substantial part of an unusually large number of Republicans seeking House seats this year. Kirsten Fedewa, spokeswoman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, said there were at least 820 Republicans seeking the 435 seats in the House. She said that was a record and "at least twice as many" as there were at this point in the campaign two years ago.
The proposal itself was presented in only bare outline today. Mr. Weber said its objective was "lifting people out of welfare and making them independent."
He said the program was designed to say that four years "is as long as people are going to sustain you on the welfare rolls."
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, said the measure was intended to see that welfare caseworkers, "in every way possible, encourage these people to go to work."
Before holding their news conference at the National Press Club, Mr. Gingrich and some colleagues explained it to the President at the White House. Mr. Gingrich said later that Mr. Bush was enthusiastic.
"You have a team for change in the House and Senate and Presidential Republican Party," Mr. Gingrich said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Newt Gingrich announced a Republican plan that would require welfare recipients to work part time or go to school. He handed a microphone back to a camera operator after news conference. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); LITIGATION (66%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM NEWT GINGRICH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



928 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Dinkins and the Silver Lining

 BODY:
The Dinkins administration's new budget comes bound with a bit of shiny ribbon and includes the promise of some small but appealing initiatives. The politicking is forgivable even in these tough times because taken as a whole, the 1993 budget offers a prudent, candid plan that should serve New York City well.
If the Mayor keeps to his plan and does not give city workers a raise, he will manage to balance the budget without gimmicks, borrowing or an enormous tax boost. His budget makes conservative assumptions and continues to trim fat. 
 How did Mayor David Dinkins find a small surplus, some of which will finance new undertakings? Mostly through admirable diligence. The administration had a long-term plan to reduce spending and held to it steadfastly. Also, tax collections came in a little higher than expected.
The city is not out of trouble. The recession goes on. Jobs continue to disappear. But the new budget shows that the Dinkins administration has learned how to manage adversity.
Things didn't look so sensible a week ago. City Hall seemed mired in confusion as the Mayor, who has known nothing but municipal poverty since taking office, suddenly began making attractive promises. He talked about expanded library hours, community health clinics and other programs.
But now that his $29.5 billion budget is available for analysis, the good news can be seen in perspective. The $455 million surplus is only a thin silver lining, and the Mayor soundly uses much of it to avoid the need to borrow $250 million next year.
Any talk of a surplus, no matter how small, put labor leaders in a difficult position with workers who are not getting raises. Even so, the leaders reacted disingenuously last week. So did legislative leaders and Felix Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation. They all had to know that the surplus is made up of non-recurring revenues that cannot go to wage increases, and does not eliminate the need for $115 million in state-authorized taxes or for $100 million from the M.A.C.
The budget has flaws. Mr. Dinkins could try for deeper cuts in the municipal work force and could truly overhaul the way government operates instead of making incremental changes. Moreover, the deficit in the fiscal year that begins in June 1994 already looms large.
But Mr. Dinkins and his budget director, Philip Michael, admit the problem and show a willingness to confront it. That candor, combined with prudence demonstrated in the budget, goes a long way toward restoring confidence in city government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (51%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (51%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



929 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: When the Irish Came Into the American Club;
Slowly Changing Land

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As Anthony Lewis maintains, "Ireland is a changing country" (column, March 26), but visitors and readers should be cautious in interpreting visible symbols of change (including memorials to Oscar Wilde and Samuel Becket or the election of Mary Robinson as President) as evidence of a substantively different society.
Ireland has been changing since the late 1950's, when a major transformation in government economic policy began to restructure the economy. By the late 1970's, Ireland had many of the characteristics associated with modernization: the primacy of agricultural production and employment was displaced by manufacturing and services sectors, and the majority of Irish people were living in urban areas. There were increased participation in education, increased labor force participation by women and declining fertility rates. 
 Cultural change, however, was only partial. Modern Ireland steadfastly resists institutionalizing cultural options available in other Western societies such as divorce and abortion.
Since the early 70's, opinion polls demonstrated increasing support for divorce. By the beginning of 1986, only 24 percent believed divorce should never be permitted. That April, following the Government's announcement of a divorce referendum and publication of proposals for restrictive divorce legislation, 61 percent of those polled said they intended to vote for the divorce amendment.
But after nine weeks of debate -- during which, incidentally, the Roman Catholic bishops, reaffirming their post-Vatican II position differentiating law and private morality, stated that "Catholics in good conscience could vote in favor of the amendment" -- the Irish voted 64 percent to 36 percent against divorce. (Two months later, a poll majority again expressed support for divorce.)
Three years earlier, a "pro-life" amendment to the Constitution aimed at strengthening the criminal status of abortion, was overwhelmingly endorsed. Despite recent support for the 14-year-old girl who was at first banned from seeking an abortion in England following rape, it is unlikely that the Irish, if a future referendum were to be held, would vote for even restrictive abortion.
Although Prime Minister Albert Reynolds has expressed openness to another referendum on divorce and to exploring the moderation of the abortion ban, the party he leads, Fianna Fail, has politically exploited divorce and abortion, invoking the specter of "a stalking Frankenstein" as synonymous with change.
The Irish have been adept at disentangling their economic interests from their cultural identity; I have no doubt that the vote on European integration will be consistent with this pattern.
 
MICHELE DILLON
New Brunswick, N.J., April 9, 1992
 
The writer, an Irish citizen, is an assistant professor in communication at Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND IRELAND (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ABORTION; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); ABORTION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); RELIGION (70%); FAMILY LAW (68%); STALKING (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); AGRICULTURE (55%); FERTILITY RATES (54%); 

PERSON: DILLON, MICHELE MARY ROBINSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



930 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Remembering a Father Of Social Security

 BODY:
To the Editor:
This month marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of Abraham Epstein, a founder of the American Social Security system. It is because of his conviction and courage that millions of Social Security beneficiaries -- retired and disabled workers, their families and survivors -- receive dignified Social Security, rather than suffer the misery of the poorhouse or the humiliation of the dole.
Born in Russia, Epstein came to the United States at age 12, graduated from the University of Pittsburgh, worked for the Pennsylvania commission to draft the first old-age pension bill, taught at New York University and Brooklyn College, and devoted his life to the principles of economic security for workers and their families. In the 1920's, he castigated "blind greed, selfish materialism and rampant individualism," championed the needs of the elderly and unemployed, and preached mutual protection and public responsibility. 
 His writing, speaking and lobbying helped mobilize public opinion and to pass the Social Security Act of 1935. From then until his death in 1942, Epstein argued for reforms in unemployment insurance and a national health system. Although poor in money, power and fame, he converted ideals into reality. His contributions have improved the lives of millions, and his pragmatic idealism should inspire us.
 
JEAN T. D. BANDLER
Associate Professor of Social Work
New York University
New York, April 15, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: T D I (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; HISTORY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); AGING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); PENSION REFORM (77%); DISABLED WORKERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, ABRAHAM; BANDLER, JEAN T D ABRAHAM EPSTEIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



931 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Informally Offers to Cut Rise in Climate-Warming Gases

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 28

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has for the first time offered to curb the increase in climate-warming gases released into the atmosphere by American factories, trucks and automobiles as part of a proposed agreement being prepared for a top-level international environmental conference to be held in Rio de Janeiro in June.
This American negotiating position was stated in Paris earlier this month during informal talks on the planned treaty between the industrial nations and some developing countries, officials said. 
 But the United States is still refusing to join the rest of the industrial world in accepting a treaty commitment to stabilize the emission of these "greenhouse gases" at 1990 levels by the year 2000.
 
Already Succeeding, Bush Says

In a document released last week, the Bush Administration suggested that there was no need for it to join in this pledge, contending that environmental programs the United States has already put into effect would reduce its emissions of greenhouse gases by 7 percent to 11 percent below what they would have been by 2000.
But officials acknowledged that the levels of such gases released into the atmosphere through American industrial production and use would still be 1.5 percent to 6 percent higher in 2000 than they are today.
At the Paris preparatory talks, the United States, in convoluted language, pledged only "to contribute to the global effort" on climate stabilization by "recognizing that the reduction of growth of net anthropogenic emissions of the total of all greenhouse gases not covered by the Montreal Convention would be an appropriate signal that longer-term emission trends have been modified consistent with that objective."
The Montreal Convention bans the release of gases that damage the ozone layer, meaning man-made emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. In the view of many experts, these gases threaten environmental havoc by trapping heat in the atmosphere and melting portions of the polar ice caps, raising ocean levels.
The Bush Administration's stand at the Paris talks, which ended on April 16, is being seen by many diplomats and officials here as an indication that the United States is becoming slightly more flexible on global warming, which until recently it refused to recognize as being a problem at all.
Nevertheless, its position remains far from that taken by leaders of other industrial nations, in refusing to set legally binding targets for curbing greenhouse gas releases.
And in a presidential election year, the Administration appears reluctant to make commitments that might hamper economic growth. The President has not yet said whether he plans to attend the Rio meeting, which is known as the Earth Summit.
For officials in Washington, there are also considerations of life style. Americans, per person, consume more energy and other resources than Europeans or Japanese, and much more than citizens of third world countries. And many of those Americans who benefit from energy-intensive industries, or who enjoy well-heated houses and big cars, will vote in November. Their preferences are not likely to be overlooked as the Administration considers its positions in Rio de Janeiro and in the preparatory talks.
Negotiators from rich and poor countries are to meet here on Thursday to try once more to draft a climate-change treaty in time for the Rio meeting.
Such a treaty would likely be the most important achievement in Rio, and many heads of state and government are likely to make their attendance conditional on its being ready for signature then.
The United Nations officials organizing the meeting also hope to agree on another convention aimed at preserving the world's animal and plant life, as well as a general declaration on the need to insure that economic growth is environmentally sustainable. And they will seek a vast plan of action for cleaning up the global environment over the 21st century.
 
Help From Tokyo
 Officials said that in Paris earlier this month, Japan dropped its insistence that it be allowed a 6 percent increase in greenhouse gas emissions by 2000 to compensate for its expected population increase. This enabled industrial nations except the United States to agree on a single target.
America's negotiating offer to reduce the degree of increase in the levels of these gases leaves it the option of compensating for increased emissions through a large-scale reforestation program. Forests and oceans naturally absorb many warming gases.
The use of this Washington standard -- a reduction in increase, rather than a stabilization or reduction in existing levels -- might encourage countries like Brazil or Malaysia to preserve and expand their forests because it would give them room for industrialization while creating less danger to world climate.
But there is as yet no agreed method for calculating the quantity of greenhouse gases absorbed by oceans, forests and grasslands. And some experts express fear that the United States might use this lack of scientific agreement as a pretext to delay reducing emissions.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the Bush Administration's policy on controlling the emission of gases believed to contribute to global warming misstated the focus of the international accord called the Montreal Protocol. It sets a timetable for phasing out chlorofluorocarbons and other chemicals associated with destruction of the earth's ozone layer; it does not cover "greenhouse gases" linked to global warming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); FRANCE (90%); EARTH (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WEATHER; TREATIES; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; METHANE; NITROUS OXIDE EMISSIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); METHANE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); OZONE DEPLETION (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



932 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
Despite Grip on Nomination, Bush Still Gropes for Agenda

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
Although President Bush claimed his party's nomination Tuesday night, Administration officials say he has recognized what many Republican strategists concluded long ago: that he has not given the rest of America a good reason why he deserves a second term.
That is why the President has instructed his staff to focus on defining a broad agenda for the next five years, the officials say, an order that came as Mr. Bush shifted his attention to the general election and away from a primary season that had been much meaner than any of his advisers had predicted. 
 The political urgency of this effort was underscored by the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. Fifty-eight percent of the 1,151 registered voters questioned April 20-23 said the Administration was drifting without clear policies. More than a third said it was moving carefully to develop its plans, a reversal from April 1989, at the start of the Bush Presidency, when 61 percent said the Administration was moving carefully.
The pressure on Mr. Bush also comes from the elders of his own party. At a fund-raising dinner in Charlotte, N.C., on Monday night, the President sat tight-jawed watching a videotape in which Senator Jesse Helms chided him for not running an aggressive enough campaign and for the flip-flop on tax increases that led many Republicans to conclude that Mr. Bush did not have strong convictions on economic issues.
"Mr. President," the Senator said, "tell them once again, 'Read my lips,' but this time with gusto."
Acknowledging that Mr. Bush had not yet given Americans a vision of where he would take the country in a second term, Marlin Fitzwater, the President's spokesman, said, "By the time of the convention we want to have laid out an intellectual framework of what's been accomplished, what needs to be reformed and our vision of the future."
Mr. Fitzwater said the President wanted to begin doing that this spring in commencement addresses at four universities. But Mr. Fitzwater and others said the effort had not progressed beyond a general sense that the White House and the Bush campaign must address the problem.
The first speech, delivered at Florida International University in Miami on Monday, was little more than Mr. Bush's standard stump speech. In an address to a fund-raising dinner in Washington on Tuesday night, the President ended up sounding more like Ronald Reagan than George Bush as he talked about the "miracle called America." And a much-advertised Presidential announcement on deregulation today turned out to be a sparsely attended event in the Rose Garden in which Mr. Bush talked about the dangers of step stools.
Some Republican strategists say that events like these indicate that the Bush team still has to overcome the organizational obstacles and, equally important, the philosophical hurdles that have colored Mr. Bush's Presidency and hindered his campaign.
Associates and friends of Mr. Bush say he has never clearly understood the need to explain his decisions to the public. And they say he is intensely frustrated that the public does not give him enough credit for being a world leader, as shown in particular by what he sees as his bold command in the Persian Gulf war.
 
A Passive Presidency
 More broadly, Mr. Bush's problems in outlining his agenda for a second term spring from the custodial nature of his Presidency. Elected as the heir to President Reagan, Mr. Bush has run an essentially passive Presidency and has only recently tried to paint himself as an agent of change with his own ideas about where the country should go.
"It's going to be difficult for them to shape a vision now that is distinctive from what the Bush Administration has been, and that is a managerial and maintenance sort of Presidency, one of limited change," said Charles O. Jones, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin and a scholar of the Presidency.
"The President didn't explain all that well why he should have a first term," Mr. Jones said, adding that the 1988 election was in essence a decision "to go ahead with the Reagan-Bush Administration, with Bush now in the White House, since Reagan couldn't be there any longer."
 
Challengers With Vision
 But the political landscape in 1992 is much changed. Not only is Mr. Bush struggling with public discontent over his own record, but he has also been confronting challengers who offer a strong ideology and a clear vision.
Patrick J. Buchanan challenged Mr. Bush's claim to the support of the Republican right. Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, who has an impressive oratorical style -- something that has always eluded Mr. Bush -- is presenting himself as the true apostle of change.
Mr. Fitzwater said Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Clinton increased the pressure on the President to lay out his own vision of a second term. But his efforts so far have been halting at best.
Consider this exchange during an hour-long news conference that Mr. Bush called in the Rose Garden on April 10 for no apparent central reason. The President was asked for his single most important domestic policy goal in a second term.
"Single goal?" he said. "There are several goals, and I've been spelling them all out."
He added: "But if you had to single out one, education covers so many of these fields and our goals to achieve those goals cover more, because I'm talking about -- one of them is being ready to learn. That's Head Start. And another one is a place where you can learn. That is drug-free schools. So when I talk about education, I'm talking about all of these things."
 
Typical Speaking Style
 That sort of free-range response, typical of Mr. Bush's speaking style, may have been adequate when his popularity ratings were soaring on the strength of the dissolution of European Communism and the gulf war victory.
But when the economy started going sour, Mr. Bush was confronted by an electorate who thought he was out of touch and uncaring. His Administration touched a raw class nerve with its initial comments about the recession.
The President and his aides said the downturn was part of a natural business cycle that some even suggested might be healthy. White House aides now concede that such explanations served only to annoy voters who did not see it that way.
Mr. Bush then tried to show his compassion and offered short-term fixes intended to demonstrate that he was addressing the recession. Administration officials were fully aware, however, that Congress was not going to pass those proposals, and the effort failed to halt Mr. Bush's political slide.
The White House then began a series of Presidential speeches and policy pronouncements that were supposed to summarize Mr. Bush's record on his "five pillars of reform" -- law, education, health care, government and foreign trade -- and offer new initiatives.
 
Incremental Changes
 But most of what the President has suggested were incremental changes or recycled versions of old proposals, and Mr. Bush still did not address the broader question of his own vision for a second term.
"Every incumbent thinks first of all that people judge him on his record, on what he's already done," Mr. Fitzwater said, describing Mr. Bush's frustration at how swiftly his popularity faded after the gulf war. "Something like this: 'I've been President for three and a half years. You know what I've stood for and how I've governed, and I believe it has been sound.' "
A senior Administration official said that everything the White House tried to do to help Mr. Bush this year was stymied by disarray in the White House ranks and by what the official called Mr. Bush's own disdain for public relations.
Mr. Fitzwater said the White House organization had improved. But he conceded: "We used to give a speech once and never came back to it. We never give the 'why' of things. We're just getting around to the 'why' now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trailing his dog but staying ahead of a Secret Service agent, President Bush jogged at the Naval Observatory in Washington. (Associated Press) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (56%); REAGAN-BUSH ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: REAGAN-BUSH ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; TAXATION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); DEREGULATION (65%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HELMS, JESSE (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



933 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives Call for PBS To Go Private or Go Dark

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
With a Senate appropriations bill as the battleground, public television is facing the bitterest political opposition in its history in a struggle that public television executives say could threaten the future of the Public Broadcasting Service.
In the last six months, public television has come under a well-organized attack by conservative politicians and organizations who charge that public-affairs programs on PBS have exhibited what they call a "liberal tilt." More recently, the charges have evolved into a suggestion that PBS is no longer a necessary or even worthwhile source of programming, because cable networks have arisen that offer the same kinds of programs.
 
The Possibilities
 The possible outcomes range from a cut in the requested appropriation, which is significantly higher than it was in the last two amendments, to adding some form of Governmental editorial oversight, to a delay that would put off consideration of the financing until next year, effectively hobbling the system. 
 The opposition is from a group of conservative organizations that define themselves as media watchdogs. Among the groups are the Heritage Foundation in Washington, whose Bradley Resident Scholar, Laurence Jarvik, has served as the point man in the attacks on public television. Mr. Jarvik was among the first to charge that the system has "outlived its usefulness."
He has urged that the Federal financing arm of the public television system, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, be sold outright to anyone willing to buy it, "anyone from the BBC to Ted Turner," Mr. Jarvik said.
Another vocal critic is David Horowitz, the chairman of a group in Los Angeles called the Committee on Media Integrity, which monitors pubic-affairs programs on public television. Mr. Horowitz had previously worked as a speech writer for Senator Robert Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader.
Senator Dole has been a principal player in the political sparring over the bill that would authorize Federal money for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. During debate on the Senate floor last month, he said, "I have never been more turned off and more fed up with the increasing lack of balance and the unrelenting liberal cheerleading I see and hear on the public airwaves."
The conservative opponents charge that the public-affairs programs on PBS have violated a law that requires "balance and objectivity" in programs. They have focused here on a PBS decision to put its programs on the 1992 political campaign into the hands of two journalists, Bill Moyers and William Greider, whom they identify, in Senator Dole's words, as "two liberal Democrats."
PBS executives have responded that the Public Broadcasting Act was interpreted by a Circuit Court in Washington in 1975 to mean that political views had to be balanced not within the same program or the same series of programs but across the spectrum of programming on PBS. These executives said PBS did indeed offer balance, and as proof they point to regularly scheduled programs whose hosts are such identifiably conservative or Republican figures as William F. Buckley Jr., John McLaughlin and Tony Brown.
Created by the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967, the public-television system was intended to be a noncommercial educational alternative to the commercial broadcast networks. The system has always been a maze of conflict and interdependency among public television stations, loosely united under a central organization based in Washington. Financing for programs has always been a complicated mix of Federal grants, corporate underwriting, foundation support and contributions from individual viewers.
The Federal portion of the overall PBS budget has declined over the years and is now down to 17 percent. For this year, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting received $251 million from the Government. An additional $253 million is already allotted for next year. The appropriation in dispute is for the years 1994 through 1996. PBS executives say it is imperative that financing be allocated at least two years in advance so that programs can be developed and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting can be insulated from exactly the sort of political pressure that is now being exerted in the Senate.
The Federal authorization of $275 million for 1994, an allotment already approved in the House, is facing several amendments suggested by the Republican opposition. The amendments, said Nancy Neubauer, the director of communications for America's Public Television Stations, the lobbying organization for public television, are likely to impose some oversight on the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The president of PBS, Bruce Christensen, said the organization was not offering to compromise on the issue of freedom from political interference. "We responded to any request for changes by saying we don't want any amendments," he said.
 
Concern Over Attacks
 Mr. Christensen says the opposition to PBS may do lasting damage. "I'm concerned these ideological attacks may be effective," Mr. Christensen said. "I'm concerned public television will come out of this with editorial restrictions and less money to do education programs."
Mr. Chistensen said he feared that if the Republicans opposing the current appropriation failed to get the oversight they sought they would simply insure that the appropriation never gets through this year. "I have heard that this whole thing may be a tactical maneuver to get year-to-year oversight," Mr. Christensen said. That would eliminate much of the shield from governmental interference that PBS has had, Mr. Christensen said.
The argument has reached the point where some conservative opponents of public television are suggesting an end to the current public television system to be replaced by a privately owned system with no governmental backing. Among their arguments is that cultural programs similar to those shown on PBS are already available on several cable channels and that the audience for PBS is made up of the elite and affluent so these people ought to be able to afford to pay to see the same programming on cable channels.
 
On Disenfranchising the Poor
 PBS executives respond that their overall mix of programming is not matched elsewhere, that no other channels do the same kind of independent public-affairs programming (the kind that has raised conservative ire) and that its audiences are far from elite and instead largely matches the overall television audience.
Moreover, PBS argues, relying on cable for the kind of programming PBS provides would disenfranchise many of the poor and minority groups the service is intended to reach and would cut off educational programs.
While Mr. Jarvik argues that public television partly justifies its continued reliance on Government financing because of the status any association with the Government confers, he said money was still at the center of the dispute. A main reason that the Corporation for Public Broadcasting appropriation has come under fire, Mr. Jarvik said, is that the request was so high in a time of recession.
"They came in looking for a 50 percent increase," he said. "If they had asked for less money, it's likely no one would have said a word."
Mr. Christensen called that reasoning a "smokescreen for the right-wing political objectives" and pointed out that the requested increase was to be used for additional educational programs.
Some Democratic Senators, including Al Gore, Democrat of Tennessee, have seized on the conservative attacks on public television as a threat to the future of such an American institution as Big Bird, the tall yellow star of "Sesame Street."
Possibly because of its value as a symbol of what PBS has done well, "Sesame Street" itself has become a target of the right-wing criticism of public television.
Mr. Jarvik and Mr. Horowitz have charged that the Children's Television Workshop, of which "Sesame Street" is part and which made $24 million last year through licensing agreements with a theme park, a stage show and toy makers and has an endowment of more than $50 million, is so rich that it ought not to receive any Federal financing for any of its programs.
Fran Kaufman, the vice president of public affairs for the Children's Television Workshop, said that "Sesame Street" itself had not received any money from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting since 1982 and that the organization pours millions of dollars of its own money into its program, more than $90 million in the last 10 years.
Still Mr. Jarvik disputes the value of Big Bird as a positive symbol for PBS. " 'Sesame Street' is just another kids' show," Mr. Jarvik said. "No better than 'Underdog' or 'The Flintstones.' What did the taxpayers get for their investment in 'Sesame Street'? A generation of kids who spray graffiti on the walls of New York City. If 'Sesame Street' was so effective, why do we have such a literacy problem?"
Mr. Christensen said many charges leveled at PBS result from deliberate distortions. He said PBS had become a new scapegoat for right-wing organizations that previously attacked the National Endowment for the Arts over its backing of "Tongues Untied," the much debated PBS documentary about the experience of black homosexuals.
Mr. Moyers said he had been subjected to charges of liberal bias since his days working for the Lyndon B. Johnson Administration. He labeled the charges about PBS as "caricature and misrepresentation" and said the critics never actually "talk about the context of the programs."
One chief piece of evidence the conservative groups now offer as proof of the "liberal tilt" to PBS documentaries is a recent study by S. Robert Lichter of the Center for Media and Public Affairs, which is financed by conservative organizations and studies how the news media treat social and political issues.
Mr. Lichter said he studied all prime-time public-affairs documentaries on PBS for the 1987-88 television season. His conclusion: "The ideas expressed were far more consonant with the beliefs and preferences of contemporary American liberals than those of conservatives."
The battle has been so overtly political that it has left some PBS executives dispirited and gloomy about the future. "This is the most frustrating experience I have ever been through," Mr. Christensen said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Who Pays For Public TV" shows the percentage of public television revenues from Federal Gov't, subscribers, State Gov't, and businesses from '82-'90. (Source: Corporation for Public Broadcasting)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); HERITAGE FOUNDATION ; CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%); CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (95%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (95%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); HERITAGE FOUNDATION ; CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (95%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (95%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; FEDERAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CABLE TELEVISION; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) ; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELEVISION INDUSTRY (96%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (95%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (93%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; JARVIK, LAURENCE TED TURNER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



934 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Front-Runner;
Clinton Goes to the Capitol Seeking Democrats' Favor

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
He has castigated them for giving themselves a pay raise, chastised them for being part of Washington's policy gridlock and proudly declared himself a virtuous outsider.
But today, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas came to Capitol Hill to call on the Democratic Senators and Representatives and seek the votes of those who are guaranteed positions as superdelegates to the national convention. And from many quarters, he received their support. 
 Mr. Clinton and the Congressional Democrats he came to court were on their best behavior in meetings on both the House and Senate sides of the Capitol. But the political delicacy of the situation was lost on neither the Democratic Presidential candidate nor on the members of Congress. Both have had their share of career-threatening distractions in the last few months, and some were trying to push Mr. Clinton along the road to recovery.
"I think this thing is beginning to really move," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader and a Clinton supporter. "Momentum is building in this campaign. Pennsylvania may have broken the ice, and I think his numbers are going to quickly climb."
Senator George J.Mitchell, the majority leader, said Mr. Clinton had amassed "broad and enthusiastic support" in the Senate.
Such statements represented the kind of good news that had been slow in coming to Mr. Clinton, as some members of his own party took turns publicly criticizing him as too weak to defeat President Bush.
The Arkansas Governor has lately begun emphasizing in his speeches his contention that he will be the best candidate of change, a message that takes a page from the approach of former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California and attempts to cancel Ross Perot's claim that he is the true outsider. In today's appeal he said, he was calling for a "partnership for change."
"While it is true that I have been critical in the past of some things that have happened in the Congress, as I think the Congress members themselves have, the essential truth is that we're not going to turn this country around until we have a President and Congress jointly committed to change, committed to change the lives of this country and restore the leadership of this country economically," Mr. Clinton said.
After listening to the Arkansas Governor, several members of Congress who had not endorsed a candidate said they would support Mr. Clinton at the Democratic National Convention.
Among those in the House who said they would help Mr. Clinton gain the party's first ballot nomination were Representative Jolene Unsoeld of Washington, Robin Tallon of South Carolina, Gerry E. Studds of Massachusetts and Vic Fazio of California. In the Senate, Mr. Clinton was endorsed by Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Terry Sanford of North Carolina, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, and Howard M. Metzenbaum of Ohio.
 
Not All Are Swayed
 "Bill Clinton is going to be the next President of the United States," said Mr. Tallon, who is among the lawmakers who have worried that their own re-elections would be endangered without a strong figure at the top of the ticket. "It's time for all Democrats to come together and lend support to Bill Clinton to get this country moving."
But not all Congressional Democrats were swayed by Mr. Clinton, who spent his day on Capitol Hill talking policy, not politics.
"We're supposed to be uncommitted," said Representative Romano L. Mazzoli of Kentucky, who said he would not endorse Mr. Clinton yet because it would conflict with his role as a superdelegate. "That's the whole theory of the designation, to try to figure out how to win a race."
But the general direction of the political winds were shifting in favor of Mr. Clinton after his victory in the Pennsylvania primary on Tuesday. Even so, the reasons for the sudden rush to unity seemed to have more to do with pragmatism than enthusiasm.
 
'Getting on Board'
 "He's going to be the nominee, so good Democrats are getting on board -- that's it in a nutshell," said Representative Don Edwards of California, who committed himself to Mr. Clinton.
Many remained preoccupied with their own troubles, including a nationwide bout of anti-incumbency fever that has been fed by the House banking scandal and aided by redistricting that has threatened members with seats that were previously safe.
When asked whether he would support Mr. Clinton, Representative Norman Y. Mineta of California responded: "Frankly, I haven't focused on it yet."
There was much speculation today that Mr. Clinton would seek to play down the Capitol Hill endorsements to preserve the ground he has staked out for himself as an agent of change. Today two dozen lawmakers gathered behind the Governor at a news conference laughed nervously when Mr. Clinton was asked if appearing with such an array of Washington lawmakers would damage his credibility.
 
Clinton Takes Middle Road
 "Not if people think about it," he said. "I have not come here to change a position I have taken." He said he had urged the House members to introduce a stronger bill to change campaign finance laws if President Bush vetoed the one now Congress.
Mr. Clinton appeared to settle on a middle path between bashing Congress and identifying too closely with its members. "I know, and I think the American people know, that we cannot hope to turn this country around unless the President and the Congress are in harmony, working together to get something done."
But when he was not on Capitol Hill yesterday, Mr. Clinton worked to keep his arm's length approach to Congress on display.
"I think that maybe I am just different from them," Mr. Clinton said when he was asked by reporters about why there had been so much grumbling about Mr. Clinton's electabilty among Washington lawmakers. "I've been a Governor for 11 years. I've been used to living with a much higher level of budget discipline, a much higher level of ability to convince people to invest in the future more. The whole background of what the states have had to do in the last 11 years is so different from the kind of division and discord and paralysis that has characterized Washington, that they may think I'm coming from a different place."
Some members of Congress returned the needling. Representative Wayne Owens of Utah said he still had "a concern that he's not, in the end, going to be electable."
"I want to see how he does in California," said Representative Leon E. Panetta of California. "I have some concerns that a lot of people have over what he's going to confront in November."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton with, from the left, Representatives Lee Hamilton and Steny Hoyer, Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Representative David Obey, Senator Tim Wirth and Representative Richard A. Gephardt. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A19)
 
Chart: "The Delegate Tally" lists the current breakdown of Presidential preference of delegates to the national political conventions as compiled by The New York Times) (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); SUPERDELEGATES (77%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); STENY HOYER (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); DAVE OBEY (58%); JERRY BROWN (57%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



935 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Speaker Backs Cuomo Plan to Take On Medicaid Costs

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 29

 BODY:
Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin today gave his unqualified endorsement to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's complex and potentially expensive proposal for the state to assume the local share of Medicaid costs.
Mr. Weprin's announcement, in an interview with New York City reporters, was the first significant display of legislative support for a proposal aimed at protecting New York City's and other local governments from the explosive growth in the cost of Medicaid, the primary health-care program for the poor. 
 "I certainly will be in favor of it," said Mr. Weprin, a Queens Democrat. "I think the Governor's proposal makes a lot of sense, not only for the City of New York but even more so for a lot of the counties."
Mr. Weprin said he had not yet discussed the proposal in detail with other members of the Assembly. But he predicted that the proposal would be approved by the chamber, which is controlled by Democrats.
 
New Lobbying Effort
 Under Mr. Cuomo's proposal, which was first unveiled last September, the state would gradually assume responsibility for Medicaid costs currently covered by local governments. By the year 2000, when the phase-in would be complete, the local governments would save $1.6 billion annually, the Governor estimates.
In exchange, the state would retain revenue generated by the personal income tax in New York City and by the sales tax in the state's 57 other counties. The proposal assumes that Medicaid costs will grow at a faster rate than local tax revenues. If not, the plan guarantees that local governments will not give up more in tax revenue in any year than they would otherwise spend on Medicaid.
The Speaker's endorsement came on the same day that Mr. Cuomo kicked off a lobbying effort for his proposal by showcasing a bipartisan coalition of local officials who support the plan, including Mayor David N. Dinkins. Mr. Cuomo said at a news conference with the local leaders that he would make the Medicaid financing plan one of his priorities for the rest of the legislative session.
The group included a number of prominent Republican officials, like the Westchester County Executive, Andrew P. O'Rourke, the 1986 Republican gubernatorial nominee.
 
Skepticism in the Senate
 But officials in the State Senate, which has a Republican majority, said they still had serious reservations about the proposal's potential cost to the state.
"It has to be demonstrated to us that this is going to be as much of a win-win situation as the Governor suggests, with counties not losing out in terms of what they're giving up and with the state not having to raise taxes to pay for it," said John E. McArdle, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino. "We are not convinced."
New York is one of the few states in the country to require local governments to pay a share of Medicaid costs. Local governments currently pay about 21 percent of the state's total Medicaid costs, with the state government paying 36 percent and the Federal Government paying 43 percent.
Mr. Cuomo said in a statement today that if left unchecked, local Medicaid costs, currently about $2.7 billion a year, would grow by more than 12 percent this year and would reach more than $7 billion by the end of the decade. The state's share of Medicaid costs is now more than $4 billion and has nearly tripled since Mr. Cuomo became Governor in 1983.
The principle behind the Cuomo plan is to use the state's larger tax base to pay for expected growth in Medicaid. The primary source of state revenue, the personal income tax, is considered more progressive than the property taxes and sales taxes used by local governments.
"The real-property tax is the worst and the dumbest and most retrogressive," Mr. Cuomo said. "It's a foolish tax and we've got to get away from it. Just keep shifting the burden as we can from them onto the state, which has an income tax and not a real-property tax, and put the burden on the income tax."
The key to the plan's success is for the state to cut Medicaid costs sufficiently in the next few years to insure that it does not inherit a fiscal nightmare. The new budget approved by the Legislature and Mr. Cuomo produced savings of $1.1 billion in welfare and Medicaid programs.
When Mr. Cuomo originally proposed the Medicaid plan, many critics suspected that it was meant to help New York City -- home to most of the state's Medicaid recipients -- more than other parts of the state. But today's news conference demonstrated that local leaders from across the state had decided that all regions would gain from the measure.
The New York State Association of Counties released statistics today showing that while New York City has the largest share of local Medicaid costs, the program's growth is far greater in other counties than in the city. Local spending on Medicaid grew by 15 percent in New York City last year, but 44 of the 57 other counties had higher rates of growth, the statistics show.
"The growth of Medicaid costs at two or three times the rate of inflation is robbing our residents in Westchester County and throughout all of the counties of nonmandated services that they'd like to fund, like day care, recreation, enhanced public safety, some drug education programs, senior citizens, the arts," Mr. O'Rourke said. "The Governor's proposal is the last, best chance I believe that we will have to curtail this fiscal monster that eats into our county budgets."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (58%); MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; MEDICAID MEDICAID (95%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); COUNTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SALES TAX (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); INCOME TAX (65%); HEALTH CARE (56%); 

PERSON: WEPRIN, SAUL (ASSEMBLYMAN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SACK, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



936 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
Ford Motor posted a profit, reversing a string of five money-losing quarters. It said it earned $338 million, compared with a loss of $884.4 million last year. The swing to a profit reflected a jump in car sales as well as a more profitable mix of vehicles. [Page D1.] 
 Time Warner and I.B.M. are in talks to marry Time Warner's vast software library and cable TV systems with I.B.M.'s computer technology to allow cable subscribers to call up whole libraries of material on TV screens. [D1.]
Delta Air Lines will cut capital spending by $5 billion. After trying to hold firm to its original expansion plan, it gave in to economic realities. [D1.]
Morris J. Smith will resign as head of Fidelity's Magellan Fund. Two years ago he succeeded the famed Peter Lynch. [D2.]
The ACE initiative, a once-ambitious plan to redefine desktop computing, now appears to be little more than a marketing organization for one company's technology. [D2.]
Calpers has voted against three Sears board members up for re-election. [D4.]
I.B.M. will offer personal computers directly to consumers, a departure from its current sales practice. It will sell its low-end PS/2's, the 35 and the 40, through an "800" number. [D4.]
Du Pont said its earnings were off 18 percent, and it announced a 2-cent dividend increase. Its stock rose in brisk trading. [D5.]
L.A. Gear shares rose sharply on the news that an investment company that helped start Reebok and owns part of Adidas had bought 4 percent of the sneaker maker. [D4.]
A high-ranking Exxon executive disappeared in New Jersey. The executive, Sidney J. Reso, heads Exxon International. [B1.]
 
THE ECONOMY
Sophisticated defenses against wiretapping are outpacing the Government's ability to monitor telephone communications for intelligence gathering and law enforcement, Administration officials told a Congressional panel. [D1.]
Personal income rose 0.6 percent in March, the second consecutive gain, while spending rose 0.3 percent. [D2.]
The S.E.C.'s monitoring of the mutual fund industry's use of insider information is being examined by a House panel. [D2.]
Broadway has roared out of its slump, with last week's attendance the highest in 10 years. [A1.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Despite promises by Iran's leadership to bring prosperity to its people, an ambitious campaign to transform a stagnant system into a free-market economy has fallen short. [D1.]
Robert Campeau filed suit against the Reichmann brothers, his former partners, seeking damages of more than $1 billion. [D6.]
The U.S. cited Taiwan, India and Thailand as violators of U.S. patents, copyrights and trademarks. [D17.]
Thousands of German metalworkers staged warning strikes to press for higher pay, and striking public service employees expanded their walkout to include hospitals. [A5.]
 
MARKETS
Stock prices posted healthy gains, as more good news from Detroit restored confidence. The Dow rose 25.26, to 3,333.18. [D10.] Prices of Treasury notes and bonds moved lower. [D17.]
Orange juice futures prices fell sharply, steepening the market's collapse as fears of a summer shortage faded. [D18.] The dollar closed slightly higher. [D18.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
For advertisers on Johnny Carson's farewell show, a 30-second spot will cost $200,000, about five times the normal rate. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Mutual funds had their best quarter in nearly five years. Market Place. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (50%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); PATENTS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (70%); DIVIDENDS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); WIRETAPPING (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (50%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



937 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Transit Union Reaches Deal On a Contract

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Transit officials and leaders of the transit workers' union, whose 32,000 members rejected a contract last month, said yesterday that they had reached a new agreement that would prevent a threatened strike by New York City's subway and bus workers.
"The strike threat is gone," said Sonny Hall, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union. "There is not going to be a strike." The agreement contains a provision that both sides will agree to binding arbitration should the rank and file reject the new contract. 
 Transit officials said the new agreement would not cost any more money than the rejected one. Nor would it require an increase in the $1.25 fare, they said.
The first contract, rejected by a 2-to-1 vote, had called for a 4.5 percent raise this year and an additional 2 percent raise next year. It also featured a one-time payment of $1,000 to cover inflation for the period since the last contract expired last May and a worker-productivity program.
 
2 Percent in First Year
 The new contract calls for a 2 percent raise retroactive to last May with an additional 2.5 percent on Sept. 1 and another 2 percent in March 1993, officials said. It eliminates the $1,000 payment and the worker-efficiency program, two components that union leaders said the workers found particularly offensive.
Despite the agreement between the union's leaders and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, it remained uncertain whether the pact would forestall wildcat job actions that have been threatened by dissident factions in the transit workers' union.
The dissidents, who worked hard against the first contract proposal and who oppose arbitration, have said that they would stage a job action during the week of the Democratic National Convention in July.
They have also scheduled a rally for Friday afternoon in downtown Brooklyn. After a similar rally in March, some transit workers pulled the emergency cords on at least six subway trains, shutting down two major lines on the Upper West Side for almost an hour.
 
Cuomo Had Asked for Meeting
 Asked about his opponents within the union at a news conference late yesterday afternoon in the offices of Governor Mario M. Cuomo at the World Trade Center, Mr. Hall said, "I am not aware of wildcats or any opponents in my union. We've dealt with that vast majority who wanted to reframe the proposal." Mr. Cuomo had asked the two sides to meet yesterday. After five hours of negotiations they emerged to announce their new agreement.
Two weeks ago, Mr. Hall debated Tim Schermerhorn, a leader of New Directions, one of the dissident groups, at The New York Times. Mr. Schermerhorn said during the debate, which was held at Mr. Hall's suggestion, that he would oppose arbitration and would support a job action in July. Mr. Schermerhorn could not be reached last night for comment on the new agreement.
Although the new agreement splits up the 4.5 percent raise into two years, which means that the first year's raise would be compounded in the second year, the proposal would not increase the total cost to the M.T.A. That is because the dates on which the raises would go into effect have been shifted slightly to offset the compounding, Gary J. Dellaverson, the M.T.A.'s director of labor relations, said last night.
Mr. Hall had called the first contract proposal the best that could be obtained during the city's deep recession. After it was rejected, he went back to the M.T.A. seeking more money.
But transit officials, and later the Governor, insisted that there was no more money to give. The bargaining broke down two weeks ago, with transit officials asking the state to appoint an arbitrator.
Mr. Hall said initially that he would oppose arbitration, and then said he would ask for a strike vote by his membership. He never said when, or even if, he would actually call for a strike. But he said he would mail out strike ballots to his members by the end of this week.
 
Medical Plan a Problem
 The possible bankruptcy of the union's medical plan, which is financed by the M.T.A. and operated by the union, further complicated the dispute. The January proposal called for the M.T.A. to pay an additional $40 million to stabilize the health fund and to maintain the level of benefits. Transit workers would have had to begin paying $10 for each doctor's visit.
After the first contract was voted down, the M.T.A. said that it would not advance any additional money to help the health plan. As a result, union members were to lose some benefits, including coverage for prescription drugs and dental care, at the end of this week.
Transit officials said that, under yesterday's agreement, they would advance $5 million to the health plan to maintain existing benefits.
He said that by Saturday he would mail ballots to his members asking them to choose between the latest contract and binding arbitration. Simply voting against the new proposal will apparently not be an option.
The deadlock over the terms of a potential arbitration was broken when both sides agreed to limit the issues to be the subject of arbitration to those that had been under negotiation for the last year. That would include wages and benefits, as well as proposals from the M.T.A. for trains without conductors and part-time bus drivers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION (TWU); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION (TWU); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; CONTRACTS; STRIKES; SUBWAYS ; FARES; BUSES; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION LABOR UNIONS (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN TIM SCHERMERHORN (59%); MARIO M CUOMO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



938 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Revenue Up For Bechtel

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 29

 BODY:
Bechtel Group Inc. said that despite the recession its revenues jumped 34 percent, to $7.5 billion, in 1991, the biggest annual gain in nearly a decade for the huge construction and engineering company.
Privately held Bechtel, which had suffered during much of the 1980's, also had a more profitable year than in any of the seven previous ones, the company's president and chief executive, Riley Bechtel, said Tuesday. He declined to be more specific. 
 "It's been a very dry market for six or seven years," Mr. Bechtel said. "The whole industry has been flat on its back for so long. But I think we've seen the start of a turnaround."
The results pushed Bechtel past the Fluor Corporation of Irvine, Calif., as the nation's biggest construction and engineering company in terms of revenue. Fluor's revenues fell to $5.8 billion from $6.4 billion in its fiscal year, which ended Oct. 31, although the company posted record profits.
Nearly all of Bechtel's business lines -- including petroleum, chemical and pipeline -- recorded sharp gains, particularly in international markets.
A major portion of revenue was earned in Kuwait, where Bechtel put out hundreds of oil and gas fires that had been touched off by Iraq during the Persian Gulf war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FLR (NYSE) (85%); ANR (NYSE) (70%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (98%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (98%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (85%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (85%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (70%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (70%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (70%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (70%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (65%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC BECHTEL GROUP INC (98%); FLUOR CORP (85%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (70%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BECHTEL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (65%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DESERT STORM (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); 

PERSON: RILEY BECHTEL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



939 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Curb on Population Growth Needed Urgently, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 29

 BODY:
After revising upward its forecasts for world population growth, a United Nations agency called today for "a sustained and concerted program starting immediately" to curb the expansion. It said such action was needed to reduce poverty and hunger and to protect the earth's natural resources.
Releasing its latest population projections, the United Nations Population Fund said the world's population would probably rise from 5.48 billion in mid-1992 to 10 billion in 2050 before leveling off at 11.6 billion after the year 2150. 
 This means that the world's population is expected to stabilize at a level that is one billion higher than the United Nations predicted in its last long-term forecast, in 1980, but about 50 years later in time. In 1980, the agency predicted that global population would level off after 2100 at 10.6 billion people.
 
97 Million More a Year
 The new projections show the world adding 97 million new people every year until the end of the century and 90 million a year thereafter until 2025. The following 25 years will see annual additions of about 61 million people, the report said.
"Ahead lie four decades of the fastest growth in human numbers in all history," the report said.
Ninety-seven percent of the increase is expected to occur in developing countries, with Africa alone accounting for 34 percent of the rise. The report warned that such rates of growth mean greater numbers of poor and hungry people, increased migration toward cities and richer countries and increased pressure on the world's reserves of food, water and other natural resources.
"This crisis heightens the risk of future economic and ecological catastrophes," Dr. Nafis Sadik, a Pakistani physician who runs the Population Fund, said at a news conference in London today.
The United Nations Population Fund, which seeks to encourage family planning throughout the developing world, called for an urgent new campaign to curb the third-world population explosion in the coming decade.
The United States, which used to provide about 27 percent of the voluntary contributions governments make to the agency, suspended all funding in 1976 in a quarrel over abortions in China. The agency's current budget is about $225 million a year.
 
Growth Could Be Cut
 While it calls a rise in the population to 10 billion by 2050 the most likely development under current circumstances, the Population Fund believes a stepped-up campaign in favor of smaller families during the next decade could push this figure down by 1.5 billion to 2 billion people.
This would be in line with its alternative low population forecast, and some four billion people fewer than its high projection, which sees world population reaching 12.5 billion in 2050 and 20.7 billion a century later.
The crash program it favors emphasizes better education and health care for women in the developing world; it points out that 300 million such women do not have access to safe and reliable forms of contraception. The Population Fund calls for a number of measures "to raise the status of women," including giving women property rights and improved access to labor markets.
The report says that while it was once believed that rising incomes and an urban life were preconditions for reducing the size of families, the evidence from countries like Sri Lanka and Thailand shows that fertility rates can drop sharply in poor societies if governments adopt the right policies.
In 1965, the average Thai woman had 6.3 children, but by 1987 this figure had fallen to 2.2. Significant drops in fertility have also occurred in China, Cuba Indonesia, Tunisia and other countries, the report notes.
While the percentage of people living in poverty in developing countries fell from 52 percent in 1970 to 44 percent in 1985, the actual number of very poor people rose over the same period from 944 million to 1.1 billion because of population growth, it said.
The Population Fund predicts that with future growth of the world's population largely concentrated in developing countries, more and more poor people will seek to migrate to richer lands in search of a better life.
They will also be doing so at a time when the active working population of most northern industrial countries will be static or declining although the number of retired people will be increasing.
In Central America, for instance, the labor force is expected to rise by 50.5 million between 1990 and 2025, while in North America it is not expected to increase at all, except through migration from the south.
The report said that the third world's expanding population means increasing demands for food. Food production lagged behind population growth in 69 out of 102 developing countries between 1978 and 1989.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Crowded World" shows the estimates by the United Nations Population Fund for world population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (78%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (91%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (91%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FORECASTS POPULATION GROWTH (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); FAMILY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



940 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Women;
With Outsiders In, Female Candidates Come Forward

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
Harriett Woods, president of the National Women's Political Caucus, asserted today that Lynn H. Yeakel is only the latest in a string of "stealth women candidates" who are primed to shock the male-dominated political establishment this year.
"This is a unique year for the outsider," said Ms. Woods, who described a political climate that has changed dramatically since her two failed bids for the Senate from Missouri in the 1980's. "And women are seen as the outsiders -- even when they're inside." 
 Across the country, women are waiting in the wings, hoping they can seize on voters' newfound receptivity to them, as did Ms. Yeakel, who won the Democratic Senate primary in Pennsylvania on Tuesday. A record number of women are seeking Federal office: they are running in 21 of the 34 Senate contests, and 173 are vying for House seats, more than twice as many as in 1990, according to the National Women's Political Caucus.
A confluence of political factors bodes well for these candidates. With the cold war over, people are focusing on domestic issues like child-care and education that men had often dismissed as the domain of women. In a year when it is fashionable to be a political outsider, women have long been considered to be on the fringes of the political process and are generally perceived in voter surveys as more honest than men.
Further enhancing the prospects of women is that record numbers of lawmakers are retiring from Congress. Many of these incumbents are afraid of being defeated because of voter unrest, hurt by redistricting or frustrated by the whole institution.
"We've come a long way from the time I first ran for state representative in 1974 and had a bumper sticker that said, 'People for Morella,' " said Representative Constance A. Morella, a Republican from Maryland. "My son came in and said his friends wanted to know what dad is running for. I think the mood is set."
More than ever before, Ms. Morella said, she is fielding calls from women who want to run for office, as well as from organizations looking for women to run for office.
 
'Women Can Win This Year'
 Indeed, after years of struggling to be taken seriously by the people who raise money for campaigns, women's political organizations report that their contributions this year have doubled over the level two years ago. And for the first time this year, a Republican group was established to collect money exclusively for female candidates, as a Democratic group already does. "Certainly women are being encouraged by the fact that this year they start with an advantage with voters because of their gender," said Nikki Heidepriem, a Democratic consultant here.
The victory of Ms. Yeakel, a fund-raiser for women's charities, comes one month after Carol Moseley Braun pulled off an upset in Illinois, beating incumbent Senator Alan J. Dixon in the primary. Polls of voters in both states show striking parallels in that Ms. Yeakel and Ms. Braun each drew wide support from women as well as from voters who had also embraced the insurgent message of Edmund G. Brown Jr., the former California Governor who is seeking the Democratic Presidential nomination.
As a possible sign of strength for Ms. Yeakel in the general election, nearly one quarter of the voters in the Pennsylvania Republican primary said they would back her in November against the Republican incumbent, Senator Arlen Specter. Only 17 percent had said they would cross over against Mr. Specter had Lieut. Gov. Mark Singel won the Democratic primary.
"The message is that women can win this year," said Patty Murray, a state Senator from Washington State who is running in the Democratic Senate primary there. "There were a lot of barriers in the past to women winning. But this year, people are willing to invest in long shots because they know they can make it. Carol and Lynn showed that."
Despite the receptivity to female candidates, there are risks as well. Some women said they had to be careful not to alienate voters by being tagged as feminists who are one-issue candidates concerned only about issues like abortion rights.
 
The Other Issues
 "These women candidates have to get a message out that's broader than the narrow women's agenda to be successful," said Keith Haller, a Democratic poll taker. "I don't believe the Clarence Thomas or abortion issues will override the economy as people's most important concern."
But unlike in 1984, when Geraldine A. Ferraro ran on the Democratic Presidential ticket and many pundits wrongly predicted that it would be the year of the woman, Mr. Haller said many signs point to success for women in 1992.
"From a polling standpoint, there's far greater receptivity toward women running at the national level than we've seen in some time," he said, "and it's largely driven by the fact that people want dramatic change." In one of the most visible races involving women, Ms. Ferraro is running for the Senate this year from New York and faces Elizabeth Holtzman in the Democratic primary.
In New Hampshire, the two women who have announced their candidacies for Governor will get a boost because of their sex, according to a survey released today by the University of New Hampshire Survey Center.
In the survey of 541 adults, 41 percent said they would be "much more inclined" or "somewhat inclined" to vote for a woman over a man for Governor if the candidates were similar in opinions, experience and personalities.
 
Hearings as Catalyst
 "These figures do mean that the public is at least favorably oriented to women as candidates for Governor," said David W. Moore, director of the survey center, "and in a close race, they could even have the advantage."
Ms. Woods, who lost two hard-fought Senate races, said it would have been "extraordinarily easier" had she run for Senate in 1992. "When I ran in '82," she recalled, "women were measured against whether they were tough enough to face up to the Soviet Union. And there wasn't the funding base. And to be real honest, women were not necessarily voting for women. This is the first year we're seeing it all come together."
The outpouring of female candidates was clearly triggered by the Senate's handling last year of Prof. Anita F. Hill's sexual harassment accusations against Judge Clarence Thomas after his nomination to the Supreme Court. Although polls at the time showed that more women sided with the nominee than with Professor Hill, the hearings clearly aroused women's anger against the political establishment.
Ms. Yeakel, Ms. Braun and Ms. Murray cited outrage over the Judiciary Committee's conduct at the Thomas hearings as leading to their decisions, as did Jean Lloyd-Jones, a Democratic State Senator from Iowa who is running for the United States Senate.
"I had never considered running for the U.S. Congress or higher office than I hold now," said Ms. Lloyd-Jones. "After those hearings, I couldn't believe it. What we saw were 15 white males who looked after their own interests and did not protect the integrity of the process."
Although she is considered the likely Democrat to face Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican on the Judiciary Committee, in November, Ms. Lloyd-Jones said she is not trying to make it her principal issue. But she said "it keeps coming up -- everywhere."
By contrast, Ms. Yeakel built much of her campaign on Mr. Specter's role in the Thomas-Hill hearings. She established herself with a commercial that showed Mr. Specter at the hearings, after which she appeared on screen and asked, "Did this make you as angry as it made me?"
Though she has not served in public office, the 50-year-old Ms. Yeakel is not a complete political outsider. Her father, Porter Hardy Jr., served 11 terms in the House. She put her personal wealth to her advantage, giving or lending $280,000 to her own campaign.
Ms. Yeakel was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate in 1963 from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., and worked at an advertising firm in New York. Married to Paul M. Yeakel, a senior vice president of Kidder, Peabody & Company, she spent years as a homemaker and community volunteer before helping to found Womens Way, an organization that has raised as much as $2 million a year for women's groups.
It was the Thomas hearings that led her to run for office.
"I believe that the backlash from those hearings is somewhat stronger than anyone has documented yet," Ms. Yeakel said, "and that in history we're going to see the Hill-Thomas hearings as being the turning point for American women in terms of really stepping forward, taking political power, using the vote, using our money to elect the candidates who represent our values and stand for our rights."
Ms. Heidepriem, the Democratic consultant, cast the Thomas hearings in a slightly different light. "I would be curious," she said, "whether the White House now thinks Clarence Thomas was worth it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a political year that is emphasizing outsiders, women are increasingly shaking the male-dominated rafters of the political establishment. Fresh from her victory in Pennsylvania's Democratic Senate primary, Lynn H. Yeakel, left, greeted a lunch-time crowd yesterday in Philadelphia. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Sources of Support for 2 Women"
There were striking similarities in the profiles of Democrats who voted for Lynn H. Yeakel in the Pennsylvania Senatorial primary on Tuesday and those who chose Carol Mosely Braun in Illinois last month. In those races, Ms. Yeakel ran against four other Democrats and Ms. Braun ran against two. Both won in upsets.

 	 		Percentage of each group		voting for the candidates	
 	PENNSYLVANIA	ILLINOIS	 	Lynn H. Yeakel	Carol Moseley Braun	 	 	 	Male	38	34	Female	50	43	 	 	 	Politics	 	 	 	 	 	Liberal	58	48	Moderate	40	34	Conservative	24	32	 	 	 	Education	 	 	 	 	 	No H.S. diploma	28	33	H.S. graduate	31	29	Some College	40	38	College graduate	56	40	Postgraduate	71	52	 	 	 	Ethnic Group	 	 	 	 	 	White Protestant	47	25	White Catholic	34	24	Jewish	76	32	Black	48	83	 	 	 	Presidential	 	 	Primary Choice	 	 	 	 	 	Brown	54	46	Clinton	40	37	Tsongas	51	37	 	 	 	Approve of Senate vote on	 	 	nomination of Clarence Thomas	 	 	to Supreme Court?	 	 	 	 	 	Yes	30	36	No	57	42	 Based on a survey conducted by Voter Research and Survey of 1,674 voters leaving polling places in 40 randomly selected precincts throughout Pennsylvania in Tuesday's Democratic Senatorial primary. Also based on a V.R.S. survey of 1,506 voters in leaving polling places in 50 randomly selected precincts throughout Illinois on March 17 Democratic Senatorial primary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS; SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN (69%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (93%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS; SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (93%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; WOMEN WOMEN (93%); CAUCUSES (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEN (78%); REDISTRICTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CHARITIES (60%); CHILD CARE (51%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; WOODS, HARRIETT CLARENCE THOMAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



941 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Pinochet Is 'My Franco,' Chile's Chief Says, Going His Own Way (Carefully)

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, April 27

 BODY:
President Patricio Aylwin says that when he meets other heads of state these days one of the first things they ask him is what life is like as President of Chile with Gen. Augusto Pinochet still head of the army.
"John Major asked me that," Mr. Aylwin said in an interview on Monday, referring to the British Prime Minister. "It's a unique experience. I said to Felipe Gonzalez once: 'Imagine what it would be like to be President of Spain with Franco still alive. I am with my Franco. It's General Pinochet.' " 
 It has been just two years since Mr. Aylwin assumed the presidency, signifying Chile's return to democracy and the end of the 17-year rule of General Pinochet, during which time more than 2,000 Chileans were either killed or "disappeared."
Until recently, all of Latin America, including Chile, was thought to have embarked on a new democratic age. But as Venezuela struggles in the aftermath of an attempted military coup, and Peru's military gives its support to the seizure of power by President Alberto K. Fujimori, long-term, stable democracies may be years away.
 
A Visit to the U.S.
 In Chile, which many regard as one of the most stable democracies in Latin America and a rare example of a peaceful handing over of power by a military Government, an inherently tense relationship continues between Mr. Aylwin's Government and the armed forces.
Politicians say Mr. Aylwin, who is 73 years old, has walked a careful path, not undoing the booming economy that General Pinochet left behind or putting excessive pressure on the military to come under civil authority. But at the same time he has dealt within the limits of his powers with human rights abuses of the past and paid attention to Chile's five million poor.
On May 9, President Aylwin leaves for an official visit to the United States, where he hopes to open direct negotiations on a free-trade agreement, establish closer political ties to the Bush Administration, and promote United States investment in Chile.
"We feel that the transfer to democracy is functioning well, better than we anticipated two years ago," said Joaquin Lavin, Secretary General of the Independent Democratic Union, the right-wing political party most aligned with General Pinochet. "Aylwin knows that you can't rock the boat too much, but after 17 years of military rule the most important thing is stability."
The transition has not always been easy, or without vivid reminders of the military past and fears about a possible return by General Pinochet to power if pushed too hard.
In December 1990, the general announced that the army had been put on full alert, sending a warning that he was not happy about an investigation into human rights violations during his Government. Last September, when unidentified remains of victims of his rule were being exhumed, he noted "what good economy" that two or more bodies had been buried in one grave, setting off a public outcry against him.
More recently, the Aylwin Government has admitted that one of its intelligence services spied on General Pinochet, other members of the armed forces and Pinochet-appointed Supreme Court justices.
Military experts predict that in the wake of the Fujimori coup the army is certain to press Mr. Aylwin to increase military spending in an effort to blunt territorial ambitions by the Peruvian armed forces, its traditional enemy.
Despite the tensions, Chile has become one of the most sought after countries in Latin America for foreign investment. The inflation rate this year, expected to be almost 15 percent, could be the lowest on the continent, and economic growth, currently 9 percent, is among the highest.
Much of this was undeniably the product of General Pinochet and the young Chilean economists trained at the University of Chicago who joined his Government in the early 1980's and shaped an open economy.
 
'Sort of a Father Figure'
 When Mr. Aylwin's coalition Government assumed power, many feared that he would change the economic model. But so far changes have been moderate. He has increased business and income taxes about 10 percent, raised the minimum wage, and promoted unionization. He has also increased spending on education, housing and health care for Chile's poor.
"He's sort of a father figure," said Gert Rosenthal, executive secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission on Latin America and the Caribbean. "He's had a very soothing influence on what potentially has been an explosive situation."
Criticism of Mr. Aylwin centers on the fear that out of his concern for social justice he might raise taxes or the minimum wage too much, forcing investors to look elsewhere. Also, critics say he has done little to rebuild Chile's relations with the United States and Europe after the isolated Pinochet years.
But what seems to trouble Mr. Aylwin most is that under his Government, which ends in 1994, he will not see a full return to democracy. This is mainly a result of the 1980 Constitution, written by the Pinochet Government, which gives the armed forces long-term protection from prosecution for human rights violations and prohibits the President from removing any head of the four branches of the armed forces, including General Pinochet, until 1998.
"We decided that we should be able to beat them on their own court, using their own Constitution," President Aylwin said.
 
'You Are My Boss
 On his relations with the general, President Aylwin said, "The day I took office he said, 'You are my boss; I obey you, but no one else.' " They also agreed that neither General Pinochet nor any members of the armed forces would engage in political debate and statements. President Aylwin says the former dictator has generally held to that agreement, but notes that he balks when he has to come under the authority of the Minister of Defense.
The Chilean head of state said his aim was to pursue the politics of the possible, not the politics of the ideal.
He said he advised President Fujimori to pursue such a course the day after the Peruvian President was inaugurated in July 1990, in the midst of intense rancor with the opposition political party of former President Alan Garcia.
"The address of Fujimori seemed to be of such an aggressive nature," President Aylwin said, referring to the Peruvian's acceptance speech. "I was very concerned. So the next day when I spoke with him I told him, 'Mr. President, I see you are going to have many difficulties establishing your Government in this type of political climate.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: An inherently tense relationship continues between the Government of President Patricio Aylwin of Chile and the armed forces, which are headed by the former dictator, Gen. Augusto Pincohet. Mr. Aylwin is shown campaigning for the Presidency in 1989 when the military handed over power. (Bob Strong/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); PERU (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHILE CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); PERU (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); ARMIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); COUPS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; AYLWIN, PATRICIO (PRES); PINOCHET UGARTE, AUGUSTO (GEN) PATRICIO AZOCAR AYLWIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



942 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Further Eases Its Restrictions on Trade With Vietnam

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
The United States further relaxed its 28-year-old economic embargo against Vietnam today, saying it would allow commercial sales of items like food, medicine and farm machinery that meet basic human needs.
The State Department said that Washington would also lift restrictions on projects sponsored by American non-governmental and nonprofit groups. 
 The spokeswoman for the department, Margaret D. Tutwiler, said the Bush Administration decided to ease the embargo "in response to Vietnam's strengthened commitments to take positive actions on P.O.W.-M.I.A. issues and its support of the United Nations political settlement process in Cambodia."
"It is in keeping with the established U.S. policy of a step-by-step process for normalizing relations with Vietnam," she said in a statement.
The Bush Administration began improving ties with Hanoi last October after approving a peace settlement for Cambodia, which was invaded by Vietnamese troops in late 1978.
The economic embargo was imposed on North Vietnam in 1964 and was extended to the south in 1975 when the American-backed government there fell to the Communist north.
Last week a delegation of United States senators visited Vietnam to inspect a prison camp and several military bases where they believed American servicemen might be held. The Vietnam War ended in 1975 and the United States says 2,266 servicemen are still unaccounted for.
Most of those servicemen are believed to be dead, but there have been unconfirmed reports that Americans were seen alive after the war.
The senators said they found no evidence during their trip that any missing American servicemen were still alive. They praised Hanoi's cooperation and said they were were hopeful that the issue could be resolved soon.
For many Americans, this issue remains a highly emotional barrier to improved relations with Vietnam.
Over the last year, scores of United States experts, working with Vietnamese officials, have dug up graves and interviewed villagers about servicemen missing from the war.
Economic competition is also a factor in the improvement of relations. Many businessmen from Japan and other nations have been moving eagerly into Vietnam, and American businesses fear they will be at a disadvantage in a fertile new market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); CAMBODIA (92%); VIETNAM (88%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); CAMBODIA (92%); VIETNAM (88%); HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; VIETNAM WAR; PRISONERS OF WAR; MISSING IN ACTION EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); PRISONS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



943 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Said to Plan 5-Day Trip

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins is planning to travel to Western Europe for about five days in June to explore economic opportunities for New York City in a trip sponsored by local civic and business groups, officials familiar with the plans said yesterday.
The Mayor will be accompanied by Barry F. Sullivan, Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, and business leaders, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 The trip is being sponsored by the New York City Partnership and the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Officials of the partnership declined to comment on the trip yesterday and referred inquiries to the Mayor's office.
Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, said yesterday that details of the trip are still being worked out but that an announcement could be made as early as today. Mr. Jones said that if such a trip could be arranged, it would last about five days.
Mr. Dinkins's international travels have stirred controversy in the past, with critics raising questions about the financing and purpose of the trips.
After criticism last year, Mr. Dinkins abandoned plans to accept a free trip to Germany, where he was to attend a tennis tournament and meet with European business leaders.
Borough President Claire Shulman of Queens, whom Mr. Dinkins had asked to accompany him to Germany, declined the offer, citing the possible appearance of a conflict of interest. She later amended this to say she did not wish to be away from Queens at a busy time, but the Mayor was embarrassed.
Mr. Dinkins canceled the trip, saying that he wanted more time to plan and that another trip might take place in the spring.
It could not be learned what countries the Mayor planned to visit in Europe, but aides to Mr. Dinkins said that he would definitely travel to England and France.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP; NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY WESTERN EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP; NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (78%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (51%); TENNIS (51%); SPORTS (51%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (94%); LELAND T JONES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



944 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneur Who Left U.S. Is Back, Awaiting Sentence

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 29

 BODY:
First he fled the United States after pleading guilty to running what New York officials called one of the largest gasoline bootlegging schemes in the nation.
Then he emerged as an entrepreneur in post-Communist Poland, founding a successful frozen-fruit exporting business and a private bank. 
 He even staved off a run on his bank when a Polish newspaper revealed his fugitive status, promising higher interest rates and a lottery for cars and apartments to nervous depositors who maintained their accounts.
But now David Bogatin, a Russian native with United States citizenship whom even his prosecutors concede is an indefatigable businessman, is back in New York and in jail and awaiting resentencing. Today a State Supreme Court judge denied Mr. Bogatin's request for bail while the authorities here and in Brooklyn and Long Island decide just what to do with him.
The 46-year-old Mr. Bogatin is the first person ever returned to this country under the terms of a 1927 extradition treaty between Poland and the United States. Mr. Bogatin and Polish officials both say that until the newspaper, Gazeta Wyborcza, published an article about him early this year, nobody in Poland had asked him any questions about where he or the money that he used to begin his businesses came from.
 
$5 Million Sought
 While Mr. Bogatin's financial triumphs in Poland may be emblematic of the freewheeling economic climate in that country, officials here said he was guilty of running a so-called daisy chain bootlegging outfit in New York that evaded state and Federal fuel taxes. They want him to pay $5 million in fines and restitution and serve the prison sentence of up to eight years that was imposed on him in 1987.
After Mr. Bogatin entered the courtroom today wearing a pin-stripe suit and handcuffs, his lawyer, Robert M. Simels, told Judge Joseph Harris that Mr. Bogatin should be allowed to revoke his old guilty plea and be released on bail because the offenses covered by the extradition treaty were less serious than the tax-evasion charges.
Judge Harris denied the bail motion, noting to Mr. Simels in an apparent reference to Mr. Bogatin's earlier flight in violation of a $500,000 bail payment, "Your client appears rather nimble afoot and has greater capacity to move about than most people."
 
Tax Violation Are Charged
 But the judge put off until May 13 any decision on how much jail time Mr. Bogatin will be required to serve. He is due in Federal court in Brooklyn on Friday on related charges in the scheme.
Nancy Connell, a spokeswoman for State Attorney General Robert Abrams, said Mr. Bogatin had filed false tax returns from 1982 to 1985 to avoid taxes on about 15 million gallons of gasoline that he distributed to other dealers in that time.
Evidence presented at the trial showed that the transactions involved an intricate series of transfers among dummy companies that created huge amounts of paperwork and confused tax responsibility.
Prosecutors said Mr. Bogatin and others in a network of Russian and Eastern European immigrants acted with Michael Franzese, an admitted captain of the Colombo organized-crime family who was given a 10-year sentence after being convicted on Federal racketeering charges for the scheme.
Polish authorities cooperated with American requests to bring Mr. Bogatin back here for resentencing. Neither he, nor his bank nor his fruit business have been charged with any violations of Polish law.
Mr. Bogatin was not available today to make any comment to reporters. Mr. Simel said in an interview that his client had been misled by a previous lawyer about the terms of his guilty plea, as well as about the terms surrounding the forfeiture of five condominiums that Mr. Bogatin owned in Trump Tower. He said his client now wished to "resolve the matter" in a way that would allow him to get back to his businesses in Poland as soon as possible.
As chairman and majority stockholder of the bank in Poland, the First Commercial Bank of Lublin, Mr. Bogatin has been reported by Polish authorities to have at least $6 million in assets. The bank was the first to receive permission to sell shares on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.
When the account about Mr. Bogatin first broke in Gazeta Wyborcza, hundreds of depositors came to its 14 branches and withdrew about $4.5 million. But many others kept their money in after Mr. Bogatin spoke personally with customers and offered to hold a lottery for cars and apartments for those who maintained their accounts for at least another year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Bogatin. (Associated Press, 1985)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX EVASION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); EXTRADITION; BAIL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE EXTRADITION (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SENTENCING (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BAIL (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (86%); EVIDENCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); JUDGES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LITIGATION (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CITIZENSHIP (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; BOGATIN, DAVID DAVID BOGATIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



945 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns On Threats To Wiretaps

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
Sophisticated defenses against wiretapping are outpacing the Government's ability to monitor telephone communications for intelligence gathering and law enforcement purposes, senior Administration officials told a Congressional panel today.
The warning came at a hearing on foreign espionage against American companies. The Federal Bureau of Investigation relies heavily on court-ordered wiretaps in its pursuit of mob leaders and drug traffickers, while the highly secretive National Security Agency gathers military, political and economic intelligence by monitoring international calls. 
 The Administration officials never detailed why widespread eavesdropping might still be needed, now that the cold war is over. The most obvious possible explanation, keeping tabs on terrorist groups, was not mentioned, although the Justice Department has expressed this concern in recent weeks.
 
'We Will Be Denied Access'
 The Federal Government's biggest problem lies in the use of computers to transmit many calls simultaneously on a single line and to scramble individual calls for extra security. "Digital telephony has advanced to such a point that we are nearing the point that we will be denied access on a routine basis," William S. Sessions, the F.B.I. Director, told members of a House Judiciary subcommittee.
The Justice Department began pressing Congress last month for legislation that would require telephone companies to install equipment making it easier to conduct court-ordered wiretaps. The cost of such a move is unclear, and telephone users would pay for it in higher phone bills.
Testifying with Mr. Sessions, but consistently avoiding questions on private encryption issues, was James J. Hearn, the deputy director for information systems security at the National Security Agency. The N.S.A. has for years quietly discouraged university mathematicians and computer companies from developing cryptographic techniques that would make its code breakers' jobs more difficult.
 
Opposition by Phone Companies
 Yet telephone companies around the world are using computers to encode and consolidate calls on fewer and fewer lines to save money. And companies in many countries are responding to reports of increased economic espionage by using more and more encryption devices to scramble the voices and data they send on telephone lines.
Telephone companies, including the Nynex Corporation and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, have joined the American Civil Liberties Union in opposing the Justice Department's plans, which they see as an expensive obstacle to deploying the most advanced, cost-saving technologies available.
Philip S. Gutis, a spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union, said that requiring telephone companies to make their equipment more compatible with eavesdropping gear was like forcing household appliance makers to install special microphones in all their products to save Federal agents the trouble. "It's just a question of how far our Government goes in making it easier for them to invade our privacy," he said.
 
Why Businesses Are Worried
 Computer and telecommunications industry officials and House Democrats said today that the Administration was avoiding a public-policy decision on high-technology communications in the United States. By insisting on the ability to eavesdrop on any call, they said, the Administration may delay the installation of advanced equipment necessary for reducing costs for industry, preventing the loss of trade secrets and preserving American competitiveness.
"Our Government is impeding the private sector in developing modern cryptographic technologies because they don't want those technologies to get too sophisticated -- whether it's the intelligence agencies or whether it's the bureau, or whether it's other law enforcement people," said Representative Dan Glickman, Democrat of Kansas.
But Mr. Sessions strongly disagreed. "If you woke me up in the middle of the night and threatened me with the most dire of consequences, I would say that is not so," he said.
"I would say that the F.B.I. wants very much to see advancing technology, greater capabilities, greater implementation throughout the world," Mr. Sessions said. "All we're asking is what the Congress has already given. That is, the continued lawful access."
The dilemma for American policymakers was best illustrated when Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, warned that American business executives should avoid leaving sensitive documents unattended in foreign hotel rooms.
James E. Riesback, an executive vice president of Corning Inc., countered later in the hearing that American executives would have less need to travel with important documents if they could depend on video teleconferences without worrying about eavesdropping by foreign agents.
Mr. Riesback did not mention that Corning is one of the world's largest producers of fiber-optic cables, which are used for most such video conferences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (63%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NYNEX CORP (63%); AT&T INC (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; TELEPHONES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS WIRETAPPING (96%); ESPIONAGE (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CRYPTOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (55%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ANN LIVERMORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



946 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Excellent Quarter For Mutual Funds

BYLINE: By Alison Leigh Cowan

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the hectic pace slowed a bit in March, mutual funds had their best quarter in nearly five years during the first three months of 1992, figures released yesterday by the Investment Company Institute indicate, because of the huge torrents of cash that poured into stock funds.
Some $20.8 billion of new assets, net of redemptions and transfers, went into stock funds in the quarter, far surpassing the $15.7 billion record set the previous quarter. It was also the best quarter for three of the more speculative categories of equity products -- aggressive growth funds, growth funds and growth and income funds. 
 Although the $6.7 billion recorded in March for all equity funds fell shy of the February total, fund managers were surprised that the recent tremors in the stock market, especially in the more volatile over-the-counter market, did not do more to dim investor enthusiasm for stock products.
"Last year, the over-the-counter stocks performed spectacularly, but this quarter the Nasdaq is down 11 percent, which affects growth funds," said Frank Holmes, chief executive of United Services Funds in San Antonio. His company, which sells its products through brokers, has seen a net 7 percent outflow from its indexed stock fund this month.
Bond and income funds, meanwhile, netted $24.0 billion during the quarter, far short of the $32.5 billion record set in the first quarter of 1987. Analysts say fears about higher interest rates may have contributed to the slight drop-off in March, when bond and income funds pulled in $7.2 billion, versus $8.3 billion the prior month and $8.5 billion in January.
Together, the $44.9 billion of net new cash taken in by stock and bond funds came closer than in any previous quarter to toppling the record set in early 1987, when $45.8 billion poured into stock and bond funds.
Fund managers interviewed yesterday did not have strong convictions about how the second quarter would shape up. April is normally a strong month because so many investors shift assets into tax-favored individual retirement accounts before the annual tax-filing deadline.
This year was no exception, Michael Hines, senior vice president of marketing for Fidelity Investments in Boston, said. "The first four months of the year are typically a busy period, and the business tends to slow down after that," he said. "I would expect May's overall business to be less strong than April because of the seasonal factor of the I.R.A.'s."
Martin Gawne, a spokesman for Kemper Financial Services Inc. in Chicago, said April would prove especially strong in light of the roughly $100 billion in relatively low-yielding bank certificates of deposit coming due this month.
"April was supposed to be a record month for C.D.'s coming due, and as long as rates on C.D.'s and bank products remain as low as they are, equity mutual funds remain one of the only games in town," he said.
The fund managers did agree, however, that current trends should persist as long as interest rates remain low and the stock market does not drop precipitiously.
'It's being driven by low interest rates and strong stock market performance," said William Shiebler, senior managing director of the Putnam Companies in Boston. "They have been the wind in the sails of the strong mutual fund business, and a negative change in either of those will slow this down."
Avi Nachmanie, an analyst with Strategic Insight, a research and consulting firm that specializes in the mutual fund industry, agreed. "As long as the stock market is within a trading range, only if the stock marget goes dramatically down will people buy less stock," he said.
Even though March itself was not a record breaker, several smaller categories did exceptionally well. Growth and income funds, which use dividend-rich stocks and bonds to assure investors some downside protection, pulled in $2.4 billion, $209 million more than January 1987, the prior record.
"Throughout the last few months, growth and income stock funds are where people are putting their money," Mr. Hines of Fidelity said.
On the fixed-income side, balanced bond funds -- which tend to have an even mix of bonds, stocks and cash -- were another standout. They drew in $794.1 million in March, their best month ever, and $2.1 billion during the quarter, their best quarter ever.
High-yield bond funds, which attracted a total of $730.6 million of net new cash, did not set a record, but had their best month in over five years, as investors cautiously increased their appetite for speculative issues.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pouring in the Money" shows net monthly cash flow into bond and stock mutual funds from 2/91 to 4/92 (Source: Investment Company Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (61%); FMR CORP (58%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH FRANK E HOLMES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



947 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields on Tax-Exempts Up, But Taxable Funds Are Off

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were mixed in the latest week. Analysts do not expect to see any significant change in yield over the next few months as the economy continues to emit varying signals about the strength of the recovery.
For the week ended Monday, tax-exempt money fund yields were up smartly for the second consecutive survey period, following two weeks of declines. Analysts said the rise in yields was connected to the heavy supply of new tax-exempt issues. Yields on taxable funds were down slightly. 
 While there are other factors to consider when yields change, one always mentioned by analysts is the dwindling influence of banks and insurance companies as big investors that formerly purchased much of the tax-free paper. But the problems in both the banking and insurance industries over the last few years left only money funds, bond funds and unit trusts among the big purchasers.
The seven-day compounded average yield for a tax-exempt fund this week increased 18 basis points, to 3.11 percent, while the seven-day simple yield rose 17 basis points, to 3.07 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
For the same period, the 30-day compound average yield rose 4 basis points, to 2.96 percent, with the simple yield gaining a similar amount for an average yield of 2.92 percent.
Donoghue's said the average number of days left to maturity of tax-exempt securities held in portfolios declined by a day, to 48, as managers have become more cautious during this recent uptick in rates. They do not want to be caught holding longer positions during any change in interest-rate direction.
For investors in the 28 percent tax bracket, the taxable equivalent of the current seven-day compunded yield is 4.31 percent, while the equivalent in the 31 percent tax bracket is 4.50 percent.
Surveying tax-exempt funds with assets larger than $100 million, Donoghue's said the Fidelity Spartan Municipal Money Market Fund again produced the week's best return at 4.04 percent, beating by 16 basis points its best yield a week ago. The fund's distributor is the Fidelity Distributors Corporation of Boston.
In the taxable sector, assets of funds fell by $4.1 billion during the week, to $500.2 billion, with the decline almost evenly divided between institutional and retail money market funds. Assets of institutional funds were down $2.1 billion, to $163.6 billion, while retail fund assets fell by $2 billion, to $336.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from 1/92 to 4/92 (Source: Bank Rate Monitor; Donoghue's Money Market Fund Report); "Maturities" shows average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios (Source: Donoghue's Money Market Report)
 
Chart: "Regional Bank Rates"
Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on April 29, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 		Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	New York	3.42	3.59	Los Angeles	3.55	3.81	Chicago	3.52	3.85	San Francisco	3.50	3.83	Philadelphia	3.57	3.76	Detroit	3.65	3.85	Boston	3.57	3.92	Houston	3.47	3.95	Dallas	3.35	3.85	Washington	3.62	4.00	Bank Rate Monitor Index* 3.52	3.84	 	 *Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets. (Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FIDELITY DISTRIBUTORS CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); UNIT TRUSTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



948 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Further Delays in Taiwan-McDonnell Deal

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, April 29

 BODY:
The Taiwan Aerospace Corporation will make further evaluations before acting on a plan to acquire up to a $2 billion stake in the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, Taiwan's Economics Minister, Vincent Siew, said today.
A recent study indicates McDonnell Douglas was overly optimistic in estimating its market share for long-range passenger jets, and the Taiwan investors are apparently trying to see if they can use that information to get better terms for a deal with the American company. 
 Mr. Siew's announcement at Parliament's special hearing on the joint venture indicated there would be a further delay in the proposed joint venture. But Mr. Siew appealed to legislators to support the deal, saying Taiwan should not miss the chance to cooperate with the world's No. 3 aircraft maker.
"It has a low financial return and high market risk, but the investment will boost this country's technology and upgrade related industries," he said.
Mr. Siew said the Government would invest only indirectly in the joint venture and would persuade private investors to become partners with Taiwan Aerospace to reduce investment risks.
"The Government does not want direct participation in the project," he said. "Instead, we would provide guidance and assistance to the joint venture."
But he said the Government had withdrawn a plan by the state-run China Steel Corporation to invest in the deal, which would require approval from the Taiwan and United States Governments.
The chairman of Taiwan Aerospace, Earle Ho, said his company was considering a smaller investment in McDonnell Douglas.
"We surely will not purchase the 40 percent stake at $2 billion," he said, but added that he remained hopeful about a deal with McDonnell Douglas.
Some legislators agree that the deal would help Taiwan's budding aerospace industry, but others voiced doubts and opposition.
St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas is struggling to compete in the passenger jet market with the industry leader, Boeing, and with Airbus Industrie, the European aircraft consortium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2002 (TAIEX) (91%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (91%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (94%); CHINA STEEL CORP (91%); AEROSPACE CORP (91%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); BOEING CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES JOINT VENTURES (91%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRLINES (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); 

PERSON: VINCENT SIEW (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



949 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Up Slightly in U.S. While Gold Closes Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar closed slightly higher yesterday in slow New York trading after a mixed showing abroad that reflected a dearth of news, a holiday in Japan and the coming three-day May Day weekend in Europe.
Gold prices fell. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery fetched $336.10, off 80 cents from Tuesday. At the Republic National Bank in New York, gold fetched $335.50 as of 4 P.M., off 55 cents. 
 Currency brokers said the United States dollar stayed within a narrow range against key currencies throughout the trading day. In dollar-mark trading, for example, the dollar never broke out of the 1.6500 level but closed toward the upper end.
"There was just a lack of any movement, very quiet," said Charles Cossentino, a vice president at the New York branch of Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, a German bank. "There was a lack of news."
The markets in Japan were closed for Greenery Day, a national holiday, which made the level of foreign-exchange activity sluggish elsewhere. Trading was further slowed in Europe because of a four-day week. Tomorrow, May 1, is the traditional workers' holiday and many markets will be closed.
Economic statistics released in the United States failed to give currency trading any direction, foreign-exchange brokers said. The Commerce Department said personal income increased six-tenths of 1 percent last month while personal spending rose three-tenths of 1 percent, but the figures provided little insight into the strength of the American emergence from recession.
Some traders said the dollar's slight improvement was really a sign of weakness in the mark, which has been hurt by Germany's growing political and economic problems.
The German Government has been thrown into disarray by the abrupt resignation Monday of Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher. In addition, public employee strikes have paralyzed many services.
In London, the dollar rose to 133.40 yen yesterday from 133.30 late Tuesday. Later in New York the dollar fetched 133.50 yen, up from 133.20 yen Tuesday. At Tuesday's close in Tokyo, the dollar had finished at 133.07.
The British pound fell in London to $1.7700, from $1.7795 late Tuesday. In New York, the pound fetched $1.7725, cheaper than its $1.7768 value late Tuesday.
Other late-dollar rates in New York compared with rates late Tuesday, were: 1.6575 marks, up from 1.6565; 1.5210 Swiss francs, up from 1.5170; 1.1946 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1957; 5.5875 French francs, up from 5.5770, and 1,246.00 lire, up from 1,245.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); CURRENCIES (93%); GOLD MARKETS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); BRITISH POUND (76%); GERMAN MARK (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); STRIKES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



950 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: ADVERTISING;
Theeeeere Goes Johnny; Heeeeere's Big Money!

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
If you listen carefully amid the applause for Johnny Carson as he prepares to leave late-night television after 30 years, you might hear the sound of cash registers ringing.
Between now and May 22, when the final "Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" will run, NBC will raise its rates for a 30-second commercial, in stages, about fivefold -- yes, fivefold -- to almost $200,000 for the finale. 
 That instant inflation from the regular price of $40,000 will place the show's rates on a par with what marketers like Miller Brewing and Wendy's might pay for a 30-second commercial on a hit prime-time series like "Roseanne." But it is still far below the $850,000 it cost for a 30-second spot during Super Bowl XXVI in January.
 
Second-Largest Audience
 The reason for the hefty price tag for Mr. Carson's farewell, of course, is clear: NBC anticipates that the show's normal audience of about 10 million will swell to about 35 million for the finale, said Curt Block, a network spokesman in New York. That would be the second-largest audience ever for "Tonight," after the 58 million who tuned in on Dec. 17, 1969, to watch the singer Tiny Tim marry his Miss Vicki.
The transition from Mr. Carson to his designated successor, Jay Leno, has been as carefully orchestrated as the media hoopla surrounding the abdication of the "king of late night." After all, in a medium that has witnessed the cancellation of a series after but a single episode, three decades is more of a reign than a run. Mr. Carson announced his impending retirement last May, followed a month later by NBC's selection of Mr. Leno, who has been his regular substitute host since 1987, as his replacement, effective on May 25.
Still, advertising and media executives are watching intently for signs of disruption following Mr. Carson's record stint as host of a show that routinely generates annual advertising revenues of $100 million.
In interviews yesterday, many expressed the belief that ratings for "The Tonight Show With Jay Leno," as it will be called, will slip to some degree compared with Mr. Carson's. But most of them do not expect any giant defections, by viewers or advertisers, to the growing number of late-night alternatives, from rival talk shows like Arsenio Hall's and Dennis Miller's to sexually provocative fare like "Studs."
"Jay Leno will hold the baton high and run with it," said Robert Ward, advertising services director for the Miller Brewing Company in Milwaukee. Miller Lite Beer is sponsoring a special promotion with NBC that includes spots on "Tonight" leading up to, and during, the final Carson appearance, he added, and when Mr. Leno arrives, "we will continue our participation in the show."
Paul Schulman, president of the Paul Schulman Company in New York, echoed that sentiment.
"I want to be in Leno's show just as we have been in Carson's show," said Mr. Schulman, who buys $175 million worth of network television time a year for clients like Ralston Purina and the Gap.
As for speculation that NBC affiliates nationwide might delay broadcasts of Mr. Leno's "Tonight" show into the wee hours, threatening the network with advertising revenue losses of $10 million or more, he added, "Leno will schmooze those affiliates into being in his corner."
One post-Carson possibility advanced by Jack Klues, vice president and media director at Leo Burnett U.S.A. in Chicago, would be that Mr. Leno loses viewers, not to Mr. Hall, or to Chevy Chase's proposed talk show, due next year on the Fox network, but "just because they'd turn off their sets after the late-night news."
"We would guess the ratings will slip," he added, "on the basis of when you lose someone of the star magnitude of Johnny Carson, it would not be unexpected. But will there be no 'Tonight' show? We don't paint such a dark picture."
Nor does Steve Auerbach, executive vice president of national broadcast at DeWitt Media Inc. in New York.
"It's only natural for the ratings to decline a while until Leno finds his own audience," said Mr. Auerbach, whose company buys about $100 million in network time for clients like Reebok International and American Family Publishers. He likened the transition to the replacement of Walter Cronkite by Dan Rather as anchor of "The CBS Evening News" in 1981.
"Somewhere down the line, you'll get a divvying-up of the audience," he added. "There might be three or four or five shows with ratings of from two to five, versus a five to six rating for 'Tonight' now." A rating point represents 921,000 households.
Mr. Block at NBC said no advertisers had indicated that they would leave "Tonight" because Mr. Carson was leaving.
He also offered reassurance to those worried about the concurrent departure of Ed McMahon, Mr. Carson's foil and second banana, who has served as the show's pitchman, performing commercials "live on tape" for sponsors like Alpo dog food. (The phrase refers to television events taped as they happen for presentation later, usually without editing. This accounts for the broadcasting of occasional canine accidents.)
While that type of spot has diminished greatly in recent years, Mr. Block said, advertisers wanting that option would be able to use Mr. McMahon's successor, the announcer Edd Hall.
Mr. Carson's departure comes amid a frenzy of finales on the Big Three networks. Tonight, NBC bids goodbye to "The Cosby Show" after eight seasons. Last Saturday, ABC reaped its best Saturday ratings since October 1989 with consecutive series finales of "Who's the Boss," "Growing Pains" and "MacGyver."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Johnny Carson
 
Graphs: "The Carson Impact" shows the cost for a 30-second ad on the "Tonight Show" last week and for the final show on May 22, 1992; "Tonight Show" ratings share from the 1970's to the present (Source: Nielsen Media Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TONIGHT SHOW (TV PROGRAM); ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); MILLER BREWING CO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); BEER & ALE (70%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; CARSON, JOHNNY; LENO, JAY JAY LENO (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



951 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Ford Turns Profitable In Quarter

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Mich. April 29

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company, reversing a string of five money-losing quarters, today became the second Big Three auto maker to post a quarterly profit. Ford said it earned $338 million, or 60 cents a share, for the first quarter, compared with a loss of $884.4 million last year.
The big swing to a profit reflected a 33 percent jump in sales of cars from Ford to its dealers in the United States as well as a more profitable mix of vehicles like the popular Ford Explorer utility vehicle and light- truck models. 
 Ford also benefited from a larger percentage of its vehicles being sold to individuals, which is more profitable than selling cars to fleets, which usually buy cars for little or no markup. The No. 2 auto maker also said its average rebate for a car dropped to $1,000, from $1,150 in the fourth quarter of last year.
 
Profitable Financial Units
 About 75 percent of Ford's profit, however, came from the company's financial services businesses like Ford Motor Credit, the First Nationwide Financial Corporation and the Associates.
Like the General Motors Corporation, which yesterday reported its first quarterly profit since 1990, Ford was cautious about calling the latest results a signal that the American automotive industry was entering a sustained and strong period of cyclical growth.
"It's too early to declare victory on the economy," said David N. McCammon, Ford's treasurer. "We're still in a slow recovery." Ford last recorded a profit, a scant $102 million, in the third quarter of 1990.
The Chrysler Corporation is scheduled to announce financial results on Thursday, and most stock analysts predict Chrysler will post a small operating loss. Last year, it had a $598 million loss.
Ford revenue for the first quarter was $24.6 billion, up 15.5 percent from last year's $21.3 billion.
 
Success With Restyling
 Mr. McCammon also singled out the restyled Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable midsize vehicles for improving their share of the midsize market. Many analysts and reviewers had raised doubts whether the modestly restyled exterior and interiors were bold or eye-catching enough to attract new customers.
Mr. McCammon said only 29 percent of Ford cars were sold to fleets during the quarter, compared with 37 percent fleet business a year earlier.
Harold A. Poling, Ford's chairman, said in a statement, "A continuation of the turnaround will depend greatly on a sustained recovery in the United States and other key Ford markets."
Profit from Ford's financial services group fell 6.6 percent, to $253 million. But Mr. Poling said the group's operating performance was excellent, and explained that the decline was caused by one-time gains last year that inflated profit.
In the short term, Ford and Wall Street are already counting on the auto maker's second quarter, ended June 30, to be more profitable than the first. Mr. McCammon implied as much when he said that vehicle production in the quarter was much stronger, with Ford using overtime to increase use of its North American factories to 105 percent of capacity on two shifts, up from 81 percent in the first quarter.
A mitigating factor in the second quarter will be higher start-up costs for several new models Ford is bringing out, among them a Ford Probe sports car and the Mercury Villager mini-van that is being developed with the Nissan Motor Company of Japan. The additional production, moreover, will mostly be passenger cars, which have not been as profitable as trucks.
Ronald Glantz, an automotive analyst for Dean Witter in San Francisco, raised his second-quarter earnings estimate today to $1 a share from 75 cents. For the year, Mr. Glantz raised his estimate to $1.75 from $1. Harvey Heinbach, automotive analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York, predicts Ford's 1992 profit will top $1 billion. In 1991 Ford lost $2.25 billion.
Because Ford's first-quarter results were better than analysts had expected, the company's common shares moved sharply higher, finishing at $45.75 , up $1.875 a share, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Nevertheless, Ford's American automotive operations were still running at around the break-even point at best. Automotive operations in the United States earned only $57 million, but that amount reflected a $61 million one-time gain from the sale of a computer services business. A year earlier, automotive operations in the United States lost $947 million.
Overseas automotive operations earned $28 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $208 million last year. Worldwide sales of vehicles to dealers rose 17 percent, to 1.46 million.
Mr. McCammon said Ford was not expecting the recovery to run out of gas, but "if it starts to wane the Fed can lower interest rates further."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (55%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



952 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Climb, With Dow Rising by 25.26

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stock prices posted healthy gains yesterday, as more good news from Detroit car makers restored confidence in the market.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended 25.26 points higher, at 3,333.18. In the broad market, advancing issues led declines, 1,090 to 602, on active volume of 206.8 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. The average share gained 23 cents. 
 The badly battered over-the-counter market got caught up in the rally, with the Nasdaq index jumping 9.61, or 1.7 percent, to 569.94, buoyed by strong gains in technology stocks.
Ford Motor reported a $338 million profit for the first quarter -- a sharp turnaround from its $884 million loss a year ago. Ford shares climbed $1.75, to $45.625, and were the third-most actively traded issue.
The good news from Ford came after General Motors on Tuesday reported its first profit in nearly two years. It cited improved results in its North American automotive operations for the gains. G.M. gained $2, to $42.375.
Stocks were not directly affected by a report that personal income rose six-tenths of 1 percent and personal spending increased three-tenths of 1 percent in March, but analysts said the data reinforced a sense that the economy was reviving.
"When you see that the economy grew at 2 percent last quarter and confidence is beginning to build, that is what prompts prices up," said Cummins Catherwood, managing director at Rutherford, Brown & Catherwood.
"C.E.O.'s, directors -- people who are closer to the fire than I am -- are saying they feel pretty good about things. Despite my personal misgivings, that makes me feel pretty good, too."
Concern remains, however, that weakness among the broader averages could cause a drop in the Dow in the near future.
Ed Nicoski, technical analyst at Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood, said: "There have been some genuine buyers, but how far we can go, I don't know. I do not see this as the beginning of another significant upthrust."
The Treasury's refunding notice had little impact on the stock market. Bonds fell after a brief rally on news that the Treasury will auction $36 billion of paper to raise fresh cash for the Government.
Among technology stocks, Novell rose 2 3/4, to 52 1/2. Microsoft gained 2 3/8, to 111 3/8. Intel moved up 1 3/8, to 52 1/8. Apple rose 2 3/4, to 57.
Du Pont rose 1 5/8, to 52 5/8, after the nation's biggest chemical company announced a 5 percent rise in its dividend. Cooper Industries fell 1 5/8, to 50 1/4. The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 2.91, to 412.02. The American Stock Exchange index gained 2.74, to 385.78.
The New York Stock Exchange Composite index of all listed common stocks rose 1.46, to 226.58

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%); PJC (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%); NOVELL INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



953 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Du Pont's Earnings Fell By 18% in First Quarter

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company reported yesterday that its quarterly earnings were off 18 percent from the comparable period a year earlier, and it announced a 2-cent dividend increase, to 44 cents a share.
The earnings report exceeded analysts' expectations, and trading in the company's stock was brisk, with 2.3 million shares changing hands, as the price on the New York Stock Exchange rose $1.625, to $52.625, its high for the year. 
 "These are good earnings," said George J. Krug, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company. "They exceeded expectations, even though expectations have been creeping up for the last couple of months."
He said the dividend increase was an indication that the company feels that the recession is ending and that better economic times lie ahead.
That was the note sounded by Edgar S. Woolard Jr., Du Pont's chairman. He noted that the decline in earnings resulted largely from lower prices being paid for the petroleum products made by its Conoco subsidiary compared with the high prices during the Persian Gulf war last year.
"It is encouraging to see indications of broader economic improvement as reflected in stronger earnings performances for many of our other key businesses, notably fibers," Mr. Woolard said. He said the increase in the cash payout "underscores the board's confidence in the future course of the business."
Du Pont said it earned $482 million, or 71 cents a share, in the first quarter, down from $590 million, or 88 cents a share, in the 1991 period. Sales declined 5.2 percent, to $9.2 billion from $9.7 billion. This was attributed to lower petroleum prices and the exclusion of the coal operation, which is now part of a joint venture.
The company's operating earnings in the petroleum segment declined 63 percent, to $118 million from $322 million. In addition to reduced margins as a result of lower prices, the company said that last year benefited from advance crude oil sales at favorable prices.
The fibers segment of the company earned $165 million, a 45 percent increase. It said the improvement was the result of higher demand for its Lycra product in Europe and Dacron polyester in the United States and for nylon carpet fibers in both regions.
Earnings in the polyments segment increased 56 percent, to $106 million, as a result of higher demand for paints and finishes. But the chemicals business declined 25 percent, to $72 million, because of lower sales of intermediate products and the costs of expanding production capacity for white pigments.
Diversified business earnings improved 29 percent, to $120 million, excluding a one-time benefit last year from the sale of a business. The company said the agricultural and medical units of the segment profited from higher sales volume and the electronics and imaging systems unit benefitted from lower costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (95%); DD (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (95%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (95%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; DIVIDENDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE) COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); DESERT STORM (66%); SYNTHETIC FIBERS (65%); PAINTS & COATINGS (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN EDGAR S WOOLARD JR (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



954 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Personal Income Up 0.6% And Spending by 0.3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
Personal income increased six-tenths of 1 percent in March, the second consecutive gain, while spending rose three-tenths of 1 percent, the Government said today in a report suggesting continued economic recovery.
The Commerce Department said incomes totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.99 trillion. The March advance followed a 1 percent gain in February, revised down slightly from an earlier estimate of 1.1 percent. 
 Consumer spending, meanwhile, totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.04 trillion. March marked the fifth consecutive spending increase and came after an eight-tenths of 1 percent rise the month before. The February gain had been estimated at nine-tenths of 1 percent.
The March increases in both spending and income were slightly better than economists were projecting.
"The March personal income figures show that the recovery is a cautious recovery," said John M. Albertine, a Washington-based economics consultant. "Consumers made modest gains in income, but they are not jumping in their cars and speeding off to the malls. They are saving some of their additional income."
 
Modest Growth Indicated
 Today's report on consumer income and spending was in line with a report on Tuesday showing the overall economy growing at a modest 2 percent annual rate in the first quarter.
That report showed that growth so far this year was being supported by a rebound in consumer spending, which represents roughly two-thirds of all economic activity.
Analysts, however, are concerned that if the economy does not begin producing more jobs soon, income gains -- and consequently the increased spending -- will fizzle.
The nation's unemployment rate in March remained at 7.3 percent, a six-and-a-half-year high.
Income gains in both February and March were bolstered by subsidy payments to farmers and by a speedup in life insurance dividend payments to veterans ordered by President Bush.
The main component of incomes -- wages and salaries -- rose four-tenths of 1 percent in March after a 1.2 percent gain the month before.
 
After-Tax Income Up
 Disposable income -- or income after taxes -- rose 1.1 percent in March and nine-tenths of 1 percent in February. The Commerce Department said the March gain was supported by a reduction in Federal income tax withholding, ordered by Mr. Bush to stimulate the economy.
The modest spending gain in March, meanwhile, came entirely from an eight-tenths of 1 percent gain in spending on services -- items ranging from medical care to auto repairs. That more than offset declines in spending for durable goods, big purchases like automobiles and appliances, and spending on nondurable goods, like food and clothing.
Spending on services is by far the largest category in overall spending.
The fact that incomes rose faster than spending raised Americans' savings rate from 4.5 percent of income in February to 5.3 percent of income in March.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income" shows total personal income, before taxes from 10/89 to 3/92 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (65%); TAX WITHHOLDING (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



955 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Iran Struggles to Attract Investors

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran

 BODY:
For more than a year, Mohammed Hussein Adeli, who heads Iran's central bank, has painted a rosy portrait of his country's economic future, one that is filled with stable currency exchange rates, double-digit growth, single-digit inflation, a balanced budget, foreign investment and loans, even credit cards.
First comes his profit pitch: "There are lots of opportunities now, because Iran is emerging as one of the economic magnets of the region with the wealth it has and the new policies and economic opportunities it can create." 
 He follows that by characterizing the Islamic Republic of Iran as politically secure: "The country will remain stable and very firm, and anyone can rely on our policies. We are pursuing a democratic way of life in Iran."
Finally, he says, his countrymen are good at business: "Iranians have always been very clever in doing business and managing the economy for hundreds of years and thousands of years."
But shortly before leaving for a visit to the United States, Mr. Adeli, an economist who studied at the New School for Social Research in New York and earned a Ph.D. in business administration from the University of California at Los Angeles, paused for a moment and acknowledged, "Maybe we are overestimating ourselves."
That certainly has been the case so far. Despite promises by Iran's revolutionary leadership to bring prosperity to its people, the ambitious campaign by the Government to transform a stagnant, subsidized and centralized system into a free-market economy has fallen far short of its goals. Largely because of the country's volatile, often mysterious investment environment, few foreign companies have been willing to invest much money in Iran.
Investors do not know, for example, which of the country's three widely different exchange rates will be used to convert their money, either going in as investment or going out as profit. The Iranian authorities frequently impose new regulations with no warning. Last year, the Government ruled that foreign managers had to pay an additional 23 percent in tax on locally earned income.
Iran has resurrected and amended a foreign investment law from the overthrown monarchy that allows foreign partners a 49 percent stake in joint ventures and full ability to take their profits out of the country. But on the other hand, the Constitution still prohibits foreign investment in some important industries, and the Central Bank is sometimes unwilling to approve letters of credit. And despite the change in the law, it is still almost impossible for foreign companies to transfer the profits they earn in local currency out of the country.
 
Businesses Have Their Doubts
 "Most of the businessmen I talk to do not find these conditions for investment good enough to come here," said a commercial attache to a Western embassy.
Patrick Clawson, an American economist knowledgeable about Iran, put it more bluntly. "If you ask me, 'Is Iran's economic policy pretty good when compared with other oil-producing countries?' I'd say yes," he said. "If you ask me whether to invest in Iran, particularly if you're an American, I'd say no."
Part of Iran's economic malaise has little to do with the country's revolution. The plummeting oil prices in the early 1980's, combined with Iran's limited oil reserves and inability to substantially increase its production, resulted in a striking income loss from which the the country has still not recovered. Since the 1979 revolution, Iran's population has soared from 34 million to nearly 57 million, because of one of the highest birth rates in the world. That has caused a severe shortage of housing and an unemployment rate of 25 to 30 percent.
The revolutionary Government nationalized the banks and important industries, forced foreign companies to close, emphasized self-sufficency in agriculture and industry and drove out two million skilled workers. Then came the eight-year war with Iraq, which killed and wounded hundreds of thousands on both sides, drained the economy and damaged or destroyed thousands of Iranian cities and towns.
In addition, Iran is burdened with four million Afghan and Iraqi refugees, as well as a large number of its own people displaced by the war with Iraq.
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini led the 1979 revolution against the Shah to elevate the country's "mostazafin," or oppressed, a promise that fueled the expectations of the masses and led them to believe that the hothouse growth of the 1970's would continue or even increase. Thirteen years later, per capita income has fallen to half of what it was before 1979.
President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who campaigned in 1989 on a prosperity platform, has tried to follow guidelines from the International Monetary Fund and eliminate Government subsidies, rationalize the exchange rates, reduce inflation and put industry back into private ownership.
Soon after becoming President, he pushed a recalcitrant Parliament to approve $27 billion in foreign borrowing as part of the country's five-year plan. So far, Iran has been able to attract only $7 billion, in part because as an oil-producing country and a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, it is deemed too rich to qualify for government-to-government loans.
The Government also hopes to stimulate growth by the continued privatization of companies seized during the revolution. Since 1990 it has floated shares in about 70 companies, recently decided to privatize more than a dozen more and returned some small businesses to their prerevolutuionary owners.
 
Growth of Economy Has Slowed
 In Iran's 1990 budget year, the gross domestic product rose about 9 percent, but last year the growth rate was about 5 percent. This year it is expected to be slightly lower, primarily because of lower oil prices.
The most pressing priority for Iran, Mr. Adeli says, is to meld its three-tiered exchange rate and eliminate costly subsidies.
Food staples are now sold as if they were imported at the official rate of 70 rials to the dollar, and some state corporations are given foreign exchange at the commercial rate of 600 rials. But the free-market rate, which is used by the private sector, is about 1,440 rials to the dollar. Some bazaar merchants and high-ranking Government officals have gotten rich on the system, buying goods at the official rate and selling them for 20 times as much.
Because of subsidies, a round-trip ticket from Teheran to Resht, about 150 miles away, costs less than $3, the same as a taxi ride from downtown Teheran to the northern part of the city. A motorbike costs 50 percent more than a tractor.
Mr. Rafsanjani and his coterie of aides are hopeful that his apparent landslide victory in the first round of parliamentary elections on April 10 will give him the mandate to make deep -- and painful -- changes in the economy that will in turn attract foreign investment.
"If you ask my personal opinion, I'd like to see the changes as soon as possible," said Mr. Adeli, who is 39 years old. "We have to say: 'We don't have enough money to subsidize you. We don't have this. We don't have that.' The people may not be able to absorb it all at once, but they will be able to eventually."
 
A Need to Move Carefully
 But Mr. Rafsanjani's Government has to move quickly enough to satisfy potential investors and lenders but slowly enough to avoid fomenting rebellion. When the Government lifted subsidies on chicken last year, the price jumped more than 1,200 percent. Mysterious fires erupted in the central bazaar in Teheran last summer, an ominous message to the bazaaris who have gotten rich on the revolution. There have been sit-ins at Teheran University over tuition increases and isolated strikes among workers protesting their low salaries.
There is still a powerful minority of revolutionary purists who are anti-capitalist, anti-Western and anti-luxury. Mr. Adeli and Mosen Nourbakhsh, the Finance Minister, visited the United States last year to urge several hundred Iranian expatriates to return home to develop their country. But the two officials were excoriated in the Iranian press for trying to woo back people who the writers asserted had been thieves and exploiters during the Shah's reign. The expatriates were even accused of wearing symbols of Western imperialism -- neckties.
Seated in a board room in the Ministry of Trade and Economics, at a table laden with cucumbers, oranges, pencils and paper for a group of visiting foreign journalists, Mr. Nourbakhsh, 42, who has a doctorate in economics from the University of California at Davis, acknowledged that Iran was facing an uphill struggle in its campaign to make itself atractive to outside investment.
"Security and confidence of investors is basically a psychological issue, and the passage of time is necessary," he said. "There are no measures you can take to alleviate the perception."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammed Hussein Adeli, who heads Iran's central bank, is optimistic about the economic future of his country. (Elaine Sciolino/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Iran at a Glance"
 Figures are for 1990, except oil, which is for March 1992.
 
Gross Domestic Product: $80.0 billion
 Real Growth: +0.5%
 Per Capita: $1,400
 
Trade
 Exports: $12.3 billion
 Imports: $10.5 billion
 Trade surplus: $1.8 billion
 Oil production: 3.5 billion barrels daily
 
(Sources: Central Intelligence Agency; Platt's Weekly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); RELIGION (55%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; ADELI, S MOHAMMED HUSSEIN

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



956 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Review/Opera;
A Bustling 'Turandot' by Philadelphia Troupe

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 25

 BODY:
It did not help, in approaching a production of "Turandot" by the Opera Company of Philadelphia at the Academy of Music on Friday evening, to have heard Luciano Pavarotti sing Calaf's big aria, "Nessun dorma," on the same stage two nights earlier. Still less did it help to have seen authentic Chinese opera in New York on Thursday.
Mr. Pavarotti has been something of a patron saint to the company in recent years. But his ringing "Nessun dorma," in the Philadelphia Orchestra's farewell tribute to its music director, Riccardo Muti, put the vocal shortcomings of the production's Calaf, Ermanno Mauro, into sharp relief. This upstaging by the orchestra also pointed up a larger problem: in the overworked, overstuffed academy, which is owned and operated by the orchestra, the opera company cannot establish a permanent presence or even find room over short periods for sizable sets. 
 Not that "Turandot" needs Zeffirellian excess. But in Charles Vaughan 3d's scenic design, the unit set, a revolvable greenish-gray heap wreathed by a reptilian tangle, did little to suggest mythological grandeur.
As if to compensate, Bliss Herbert's stage direction relied on busyness, populating the stage densely with bodies, either in motion or frozen in pseudo-Oriental poses. Arms and hands waggled. Ping, Pang and Pong supplemented the projected supertitles with semaphore. The gauzily clad female dancers, an annoying lot throughout the evening, twirled their arms in the first act as if leading perky cheers for the prince soon to be beheaded.
Here was the great contrast with actual Chinese opera and drama, where bodily action is held in restraint. The essence of stylized gesture is economy, and the spectacle of a stageful of people running willy-nilly through a stock of exotic postures quickly became absurd.
The costumes, designed by Allen Charles Klein and realized by Richard St. Clair, were mostly evocative but occasionally silly, as in the Halloween get-up for the children's choir. The executioners' skimpy breechcloths revealed some formidable sumolike masses of flesh.
All of this made the wait for the production's one great asset, Alessandra Marc in the title role, seem interminable. When Ms. Marc finally sang, midway through the evening, she dominated all else with a big, dark soprano, poured out with ease, and a warmly communicative manner that gave the character unusual human dimension. The high-lying part seemed ideally suited to her strengths. Only once did her pitch stray notably, drifting flat for a phrase.
Mr. Mauro, too, produced considerable volume, but his sonority was brash and unrefined, seemingly incapable of real tenderness. Too often, he scooped up effortfully to high notes, and his tone finally splintered under the pummeling in the last act.
Maryanne Telese played Liu effectively, though her pitch, too, occasionally edged flat. Dong-Jian Gong sang solidly and acted affectingly as Timur. As dislikable as the physical characterizations of Ping, Pang and Pong were, Richard Zeller, Melvin Lowery and Douglas Perry sang the roles well.
The choral and orchestral work showed good preparation by the conductor, Steven Mercurio, though ensemble loosened considerably as the evening wore on. Puccini's unfinished score was presented in the first and longer of Franco Alfano's two completions, adapted by Mr. Mercurio.
A final performance of "Turandot" was to end the company's season on Sunday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TURANDOT (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: OPERA COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA; ACADEMY OF MUSIC (PHILADELPHIA) ST CLAIR PIPELINES (53%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (57%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPERA COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA; ACADEMY OF MUSIC (PHILADELPHIA) PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (57%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA OPERA (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); HALLOWEEN (62%); DANCERS (50%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R LUCIANO PAVAROTTI (73%); CHARLES K VAUGHAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



957 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Corporations Must Police Executive Salaries

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There's something terribly wrong on the executive compensation scene these days, and it's not just the horde of overpaid chief executive officers portrayed in the news media. The problem is the effort by some legislators and consultants, wielding some slippery statistics, to micromanage a compensation system that has largely fulfilled its goal of spurring good performance and profits from American business. 
 Concentrating their fury on wide use of stock option plans, the new "pay police" have led the news media into a virtual pack attack on America's top executives, using catchy slogans such as "stealth compensation" and "reverse welfare." The few instances of real abuse -- very highly compensated executives presiding over very poorly performing companies -- are repeatedly trotted out, and their impact on each company's bottom line is exaggerated.
Certainly, the tempest has focused attention on genuine problems. There is a need to fine-tune stock and long-term incentive plans to insure they encourage long-term thinking. Proxy statements should plainly set out how much top executives will earn that year -- and explain why. And pay-for-performance bonus plans must make tough demands for results that warrant reward.
Those adjustments are being made -- by companies themselves. In response to legitimate shareholder concerns, compensation committees are showing a healthy skepticism toward management proposals. In setting executive bonuses, boards are relying less on formulas than on a subjective, strategic, year-end appraisal of company performance -- including penalizing executives for poor results. Many require that executives hold onto their stock for a set period. More boards are turning to outside advisers for a third-party perspective.
For the last four decades, stock options have instilled in executives a long-term shareholder view and have provided a vehicle for cash-strapped companies to compete for top talent in an open market.
Wealthy executives, even deserving ones, are an easy target. But it's fundamentally unfair to compare American executives with lower-paid peers in Japan -- ignoring that in Japan, job security is absolute, insider trading and sizable perks are acceptable, and a chief executive officer is a first among equals. Many of the biggest and most criticized executive paychecks handed out in the last few years were to individuals of such accomplishment that their boards deem them to be virtually irreplaceable.
Our struggling economy needs stimulation, not more bureaucratic restraint and regulation. Compensation simply cannot be made the scapegoat for every ill on the American economic scene. Government intervention will cripple the ability of American companies to retain and motivate their most effective leaders.
To defuse this issue and keep government out of the board room, corporations must police themselves and convince stockholders, legislators and the news media that they can do it effectively.
 
PEARL MEYER
New York, April 15, 1992
 
The writer is president of Pearl Meyer & Partners, executive compensation consultants.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (94%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (94%); EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); BONUS PAY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



958 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: At Home Abroad;
The End of Ideology

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Thirty years ago Daniel Bell, the Harvard sociologist, published his book "The End of Ideology." It is time for a new edition with Britain as a striking example.
Through this century the Labor Party has brought a heavy element of ideology to British politics. Labor based itself on egalitarian Socialist principles. In office, it nationalized leading industries, built massive public housing and established the National Health Service. 
 In recent years the Labor leader, Neil Kinnock, has worked hard to strip the party of ideological anachronisms. Little remained of the Socialist ideal except a commitment to spend more on public services such as health.
Even so, Labor lost the election three weeks ago -- lost in the middle of a bad recession, after 13 years of Conservative Government. And one of the main reasons for its defeat was a campaign promise to raise tax rates on higher incomes.
The defeat has persuaded many in the party that it must shed the last remnants of ideology, recognizing that Britain is now a country of would-be capitalists. The next step will probably be for Labor to cut its links to the trade unions. It will try to make itself a mildly reformist middle-class party, perhaps under a new name.
The Conservatives, meanwhile, are happily discarding the ideological tone that lately marked their party. That was the strident voice of Margaret Thatcher.
With her message of unbridled free enterprise, Mrs. Thatcher had a profound effect on British attitudes in her 11 years as Prime Minister. But by the end of her reign she had worn out her welcome. She had substituted for property taxes a head tax that was as stiff on the poor as on the rich. She had taken to referring to herself as "we," like the Queen.
Mrs. Thatcher's nannying state of mind was displayed, unwittingly, in the piece she wrote for Newsweek last week. She spoke condescendingly of Prime Minister John Major as a mere disciple carrying out her policies: "I don't accept the idea that all of a sudden Major is his own man."
In fact, the Conservatives won this election because they made the extraordinary decision in 1990 to ditch Mrs. Thatcher and then chose the bland Mr. Major as leader. He is the very model of a non-ideological politician, offending practically no one.
The interesting question now is what is left to argue about in British politics. Are the two major parties merely going to compete over who can manage things more capably?
There is a subject that should be on the British political agenda, urgently so. That is the need for restraints -- constitutional restraints -- on official power.
In the United States, officials are hemmed in by all kinds of constraints: constitutional limits, the tensions between Congress and the President, the states and the Federal Government. In Britain there is what has been called an elective dictatorship. When a political leader commands a majority in the House of Commons, she can govern as she wishes.
The only constraints in the British system have been respect for tradition and the fear of defeat in the next election if a government is too arrogant. Mrs. Thatcher had little respect for tradition or civil liberty, concentrating power at the center and imposing new levels of official secrecy. And now the Conservatives have less and less reason to fear defeat.
David Marquand, a former M.P. turned professor of politics at Sheffield University, wrote recently that "single-party hegemony" of the kind now looming "might be tolerable . . . in a constitutional order that diffused power, guaranteed fundamental rights and tamed authority with checks and balances." But in a system like Britain's, dependent on self-restraint, "it is profoundly dangerous."
In short, Britain should be thinking about a written constitution. There is more talk about that subject than ever before. Mr. Kinnock's likely successor as Labor leader, John Smith, has said he favors a bill of rights. But the constitutionalism that is bred in the American bone -- the instinct of looking to fundamental law for limits on official power -- still seems a long way from reality here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICES INC (57%); THE CONSERVATIVES (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE CONSERVATIVES (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; CONSTITUTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY MARGARET THATCHER (67%); NEIL GORDON KINNOCK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992



959 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Clinton's 'The' Speech

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Old speechwriters wait for thespeech one that a politician knows by heart and believes moves his audiences -- to see if candidates grasp the dynamic of their own campaigns.
Voters don't get to see it in full on television. George Bush has only just hired Peggy Noonan to put his together. But Bill Clinton has been out on the stump hammering his message out, and The New York Times published the text just before his Pennsylvania victory. 
 "We have had it their way for 11 years," he says, picking up speed after a slow, statistical start, "and we're going downhill as a nation. The middle class is collapsing. Poverty is exploding. What is the alternative? That's what I represent."
He then presents an inchoate economic plan he calls "dramatically different" (a modifying phrase he ought to drop because women know it as the name of an Estee Lauder moisturizing lotion). His anti-tax-and-spend idea needs beefing up and tying into his central theme, which is a call to responsibility.
That theme, original for a Democrat, will blend nicely with time-for-a-change and don't-waste-your-vote messages in October. But as he turns to health care, Mr. Clinton fails to punch up the difference to consumers between his centralized plan and the more diffuse Republican approach.
Not until "what you earn depends on what you can learn" does he hit oratorical stride. Clinton has a constructive idea to bring a college education to those who cannot afford it: a "national service trust fund," or new G.I. Bill. Students could repay the Federal Government for an education with a year or two at low-pay, high-involvement local public service.
A domestic Peace Corps with an education bonus is not a new idea, but its combination of idealism and practicality fits his educational responsibility theme: "I live in a state where we can fine parents if they won't show up when their kids are in trouble in school. A lot of people think that's harsh. . . ." Not most voters, as the speaker knows; we like making other parents more responsible for their kids.
Then he gets personal, responding to the "cop-out" of those who say "all the politicians are a bunch of bums and the country can't work anymore." The only major Presidential candidate who is neither a millionaire nor a billionaire recounts being raised by grandparents while his widowed mother went to school to become a nurse, and tells how he borrowed from the Government to go to college, working through law school to pay it back.
Governor Clinton does not dwell on this, but most Americans identify with someone who had to make his own way. It sets the stage for a powerful peroration, replete with train whistles in the night, which the speaker does not yet have, but the campaign is young.
What else is missing? Clinton's "the" speech needs both a differentiation and an attack.
He should clearly draw the difference between Mr. Bush and himself on abortion. A centrist, discourage-but-permit stand will reach deep into the Bush core support among conservative women; the Supreme Court will make it the sleeper issue in the '92 campaign.
The attack can be on Mr. Bush's claim to fame: his defeat of Saddam Hussein. Only now are we beginning to discover the extent to which the secret Bush National Security Directive 26 -- which the White House should be challenged to make public -- helped build the Iraqi dictator into a world menace.
No wonder Mr. Bush reacted to Iraqi aggression with such uncharacteristic alacrity. The loyal opposition might point out that the monstrous nuclear threat that it took a half-million American warriors to defeat was in effect financed by Bush blindness and appeasement.
Development of the "the" speeches of candidates is a marvelous thing to watch. We will see their summer blossoming at the conventions, in acceptance form; catch their essence this fall in summations at the end of television debates; and watch their culmination on election eve.
"The beginning of everything," concludes Mr. Clinton, becoming a happier warrior, "is believing that we can do better."
He has a good, inspiring "the" speech. I believe he can do better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); GRANDPARENTS (61%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1992

 
