

1 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: A U.S. Agency, Once Powerful, Is Dead at 108

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
There was a time, long forgotten in this city, when few arms of Government instilled more fear, hatred or anger than the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The robber barons of the railroad industry, James P. Morgan and James J. Hill, fumed against its interference in their affairs. Teddy Roosevelt spent much of his first term fighting to expand its once-vast authority, and Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. and his brethren argued endlessly over the scope of the I.C.C.'s power to dictate to the states. When the lawyers who argued in front of the I.C.C. held a convention in Washington in 1930, Herbert Hoover invited them over to the White House for a picnic on the South Lawn. 
 For years those glory days have been just echoes in the empty hallways of the commission's ornate headquarters. And with the arrival of the new year, something happens to the country's oldest regulatory agency that almost never happens in Washington. It dies at the age of 108.
It was a slow and painful death. Deregulation a decade and a half ago stripped the I.C.C. of most of its powers to set transportation rates, except in the rare case when a single railroad or trucking firm monopolizes a route. But until just days ago, clerks were still wheeling tons of paper past the I.C.C.'s towering columns on Constitution Avenue and into its moldy Tariff Examination Room -- endless, computer-generated lists of the charges for taking sugar or wool or auto parts between, say, Seattle and Boston. Almost every page was stuffed, unread, into filing cabinets.
Nonetheless, the commission survived innumerable assassination attempts. Richard Nixon tried to merge the I.C.C. out of existence in 1970. A decade ago, after the deregulation of American transportation was well under way, Ronald Reagan tried to eliminate its budget. Eventually he gave up. Sheer inertia, bureaucratic guile and lobbying by companies that thought twice about what life would be like in a completely competitive marketplace resulted in reprieve after reprieve. The commission shrank without disappearing: When the last wave of layoffs hit a few weeks ago it was reduced to 300 job-seeking souls, from a peak of 2,400 employees in the early 1960's.
President Clinton signed the commission's death warrant on Friday night, the White House said.
Now, there is only one ghostlike remnant of the I.C.C. About 190 employees, including three remaining commissioners, will be transferred to the Transportation Department, which is taking over a few functions that Congress still views as essential. Chief among them is protecting workers whose jobs are being wiped out by the merger fever sweeping the railroad industry. The Transportation Department also acquires the power to approve or disapprove rail mergers. But the organization that pioneered Government regulation -- busting trusts, issuing safety regulations and reluctantly desegregating trains and buses that moved across state lines -- will be reduced to a small office within a vast Cabinet department.
"It makes you realize Washington isn't a very sentimental place," said Gail C. McDonald, the last chairwoman of the commission, who had the foresight to find another job earlier this year -- as head of the St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation -- when it became clear that the Clinton Administration had finally bought the I.C.C. a one-way ticket to nowhere. Mrs. McDonald briefly put up a fight to "save this grand old place, to make it contemporary." But she gave up when she discovered "there was just a hunger in Washington to just get rid of something."
In fact, the Republican majority in Congress had its eye on much bigger game this year. It had hoped to kill off the Commerce Department, the Energy Department and the Education Department, but failed. And while both the Clinton Administration and the Republicans are claiming credit for the I.C.C.'s demise, the savings are chiefly symbolic: The commission's budget was a mere $40 million last year, a rounding error by the standards of the current battle to balance the budget.
Even before the I.C.C. issued its last order a few days before Christmas -- a wry permit for Santa Claus to operate "as a common carrier by two-runner sleigh" as long as he "renders reasonably continuous and adequate service to the public" -- other bureaucrats were moving into the commission's offices, mostly from the Internal Revenue Service across the street.
No one seems to know what the I.R.S. plans to do with the bronze busts that sit under the building's rotunda, commemorating once-famed regulators like Judge Thomas McIntyre Cooley, the first I.C.C. chairman, who was hailed by The New York Times a century ago as "the father of the Interstate Commerce Bill" of 1887. The other day Judge Cooley's regulatory descendants looked like lost souls, dumping yellowed binders of shipping tariffs and long-forgotten administrative-law decisions into huge bins.
"It's been sad because people here were trying to get a big job done," Lillian A. Bateman, a 22-year employee, said the other afternoon as she emptied her office on the third floor. "I don't know why we were such a target, because we were small even when we were large."
The I.C.C.'s critics suggest it is responsible for its own demise. The commission once heard testimony that took up 53,000 pages to transcribe before deciding the proper rates to set for shipping grain. It took 11 years to come to a decision on a railroad merger. That example was cited time and again by those who wanted to kill off the commission, even though the process has been radically streamlined in recent years.
When the I.C.C. began, its real purpose was to break up huge concentrations of wealth in the hands of the country's railroad magnates. Protecting consumers or workers was almost an afterthought. But starting at the turn of the century its powers expanded dramatically: It regulated the burgeoning telephone industry until the creation of the Federal Communications Commission, and it gained authority over trucks, buses, and virtually anything else that moved across state lines. Until the commission's dissolution, consumer complaints about moving companies, for example, had to go through the I.C.C.
But by the 1960's critics began to charge that the commission was actually anti-consumer, keeping prices artificially high and becoming far too close to the industry it was supposed to regulate. There were corruption charges, and in the end it was the pro-consumer movement that pressed for deregulation and doomed the agency.
But for all their complaints about intrusive Government regulation, many railroad and trucking companies wanted to keep the commission alive. Submitting all those rate notifications was burdensome, but it assured that competitors would get early warning of price changes, which stabilized prices. Railroads and trucking companies learned how to manipulate the commission to slow deregulation, and the price-cutting that resulted from free competition. The American Trucking Association once maintained a cozy office inside the commission's headquarters, from which it coordinated a campaign to make sure the I.C.C. did not carry out its deregulatory mandate too quickly.
The arguments over the pace of deregulation became so bitter that in the 1980's the commissioners made no secret of the fact that they detested one another. They refused to meet in the same room, and issued decisions by memo.
One commissioner got himself on front pages around the country in 1982 by declaring that bribes in the trucking business were just "discounts" or "rebates," and declaring that there was no reason a convicted felon could not operate a trucking firm from prison.
In the end, even the defenders of the I.C.C. -- who included Vice President Al Gore when he was a Senator -- finally abandoned it. That left it vulnerable to Republicans who viewed it as a symbol of everything that is bloated in the Federal Government. "This is the dinosaur that wouldn't die," Representative John Kasich, the Ohio Republican who has led the balanced-budget charge, said not long ago.
But the dinosaurs went extinct with more style. In the 20's and 30's the I.C.C. celebrated its anniversaries in Washington's most lavish banquet halls, selling tickets to lawyers and others among its supplicants.
This weekend there will be no banquet. Instead, a "Government closure team" will dispose of miles of container reports, rate filings and safety rulings, some dating to Grover Cleveland's Administration.
One official in the I.C.C.'s Office of Economic and Environmental Analysis left a suggestion about what to do with it all: He pasted a photograph of nuclear devastation on the door of his abandoned office, under the caption: "The I.C.C. -- 1/1/96."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Government has shrunk -- ever so slightly -- with the demise of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Moving boxes filled the commission's Constitution Avenue offices last week. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (96%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (96%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TRANSPORTATION INTERSTATE COMMERCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (78%); TRAINS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); TRUCK SAFETY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); DEATH & DYING (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); TRUCKING (66%); ASSASSINATION (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (56%); RONALD REAGAN (54%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



2 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: 2 SIDES IN SENATE DISAGREE ON PLAN TO END FURLOUGHS

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
A last-ditch effort to bring 260,000 furloughed Federal employees back to work just after New Year's Day failed today when Republicans and Democrats in the Senate rejected back-and-forth proposals from each other.
Senator Bob Dole, the Republican majority leader, and Senator Tom Daschle, leader of the Democratic minority, could not agree on a temporary plan passed by the House on Saturday that would have allowed Federal employees to work without pay until a budget agreement was reached. They said they would resume negotiations when the Senate reconvened on Tuesday. 
"We need to end the impasse," Mr. Dole said from the Senate floor. "It's gotten to the point where it's a little ridiculous, as far as this Senator is concerned, so we are going to keep trying."
The Democrats continued to reject the limits the House had voted to impose on Senate debate as a condition for sending Federal employees back to work, and the Republicans rejected attempts to replace their plan with a temporary spending resolution that would allow all Government functions to resume -- without conditions -- until a budget accord was reached.
"On Tuesday, if we can't do anything else," Mr. Dole said, "we may pass whatever it takes on the Senate side."
Mr. Dole and Mr. Daschle came to the Senate floor about an hour after they left budget talks at the White House. Republicans and Democrats, including President Clinton, have spent the last three days negotiating the terms of a plan to balance the Federal budget by 2002.
Each side left today's meeting at the White House saying progress had been made, although neither would provide any details. Senior aides have said that the last three days of talks have been taken up with the two sides laying out their positions on issues like welfare, Social Security and Medicare but that no decisions have been made.
The White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said that when negotiations resumed on Tuesday the political leaders would open discussions on "the trade-offs" on those issues. "The President is ready to discuss the issues in good faith," Mr. McCurry said.
Mr. Clinton, Mr. Dole and Speaker Newt Gingrich spent three hours today in talks at the White House, the shortest negotiating session of the three days. Afterward, each of them left Washington, despite the growing public frustration over the budget impasse, which has left thousands of Federal employees in limbo. This is the second partial Government shutdown in as many months.
President Clinton is spending New Year's Eve in Hilton Head, S.C., where he will attend the annual Renaissance Weekend, a private gathering at the resort. Participants discuss public policy, socialize and play golf.
Mr. Dole was off to New Hampshire for a series of political events. And Mr. Gingrich was bound for his home in Georgia and a private family gathering for the New Year.
The last act of 1995 in the budget drama was left to Mr. Dole and Mr. Daschle, as each tried and failed in midafternoon to leave Washington with at least an agreement that the House could consider on Wednesday to bring back the Federal employees. During today's Senate debate, both leaders said they wanted an agreement, and both directly or indirectly blamed the House for the impasse.
"I believe the White House -- and I certainly believe the Democratic leader, Senator Daschle -- would like to see this thing ended and Government employees go back to work and get paid," Mr. Dole said, without mentioning his Republican colleagues in the House. "That's not going to happen, unfortunately, today. So it's not going to be a happy New Year."
Mr. Daschle has blamed Mr. Gingrich and other Republican conservatives in the House for the stalemate over putting furloughed workers back on the job. He said on Saturday that "the House wants confrontation, not solutions." Today, he pointedly avoided blaming Mr. Dole.
"I know that the distinguished majority leader wants an agreement as much as I do," Mr. Daschle said. "And I don't hold him personally responsible for the fact that we're not able to overcome this impasse."
Mr. Dole, a candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination, has taken the lead in the past week in trying to find a political solution to put Federal workers back to work. That effort has put him between the political pincers of Mr. Gingrich and other Republican conservatives in the House, who want to continue to use the crisis as political leverage against Mr. Clinton, and Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican who is also a candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination.
Mr. Gramm said today on the ABC News program "This Week" that the partial shutdown demonstrated that the Government could get along with far fewer workers.
"Have you missed the Government?" he asked.
But Mr. Dole, standing on the floor of the Senate this afternoon, said, "I don't share the view of some of my colleagues that we ought to have a partial shutdown of the Government and that people shouldn't be paid."
The shutdown has clouded any bit of cheery news that might have come from the White House talks in the last few days. Not only has it affected 760,000 Federal employees who are contending with delayed paychecks -- and about a third of them are furloughed -- but it has also disrupted public services, from issuing passports to providing new or replacement Social Security cards or processing mortgage applications.
The current shutdown of parts of the Federal Government began on Dec. 15, when a temporary spending bill expired. President Clinton and Congressional Democrats asked for another temporary spending bill, or continuing resolution, but the Republican majority in Congress refused. The Republicans have been trying to use the Government shutdown as political leverage to force Mr. Clinton to agree to a balanced budget in seven years on their terms.
In the last two weeks, there have been about a dozen attempts by Democrats and Republicans to fashion a temporary plan that would bring workers back to their jobs, but each has gone down in the crossfire of partisan politics.
Most of the debate over the issue in recent days has come over Republican attempts to put Federal employees back to work without pay until a budget deal is struck with the White House. Although the proposal included a legal guarantee that the furloughed Federal workers would receive back pay, it would not reopen the parts of the Government that are shut down and it would not allow the departments without 1996 budgets to spend money.
Mr. Dole offered that proposal on Dec. 22 in the Senate, and it was approved on a unanimous voice vote. But in the House, where the measure was approved on a voice vote on Dec. 30, Republicans added a provision to limit the debate over the budget deal that is finally reached to 10 hours. That idea immediately became a sticking point for Senate Democrats.
Today's attempt to break the impasse reflected how narrow the focus of the debate had become in the last hours of this year. It began with Mr. Dole offering a modified version of the Republican plan that would allow 12 hours of debate on the eventual budget. In a bid to woo support from the Democrats, Mr. Dole included two provisions requested by the White House counsel: that returning Federal workers be allowed to receive unemployment benefits, which would be repaid when their salaries were reinstated, and that the furlough would not affect workers' vacations.
Mr. Dole sought unanimous support from the Senate, but Mr. Daschle called the proposal "a sham" and "a facade," and he refused to give his consent.
"The effect of this unanimous-consent agreement is that Federal workers will be asked to show up in their offices and not be given the authority to do virtually anything," Mr. Daschle said. "What this allows them to do is to go to their offices and sit on their hands and do nothing. They can't get into their truck because that uses gas. They can't make a long distance phone call because that incurs expense.
"This does not work," he said.
Mr. Daschle then proposed another continuing resolution, an idea that Mr. Dole quickly squashed.
The Democratic leader then tried to win passage of Mr. Dole's original proposal of Dec. 22 -- this time, Mr. Dole objected.
Mr. Daschle's third and final attempt of the day was to offer a substitute amendment to the bill passed by the House. His amendment would call for the debate on the budget to be truncated only if the agreement met a shopping list of conditions: if it protected spending for Medicare and Medicaid, did not raise taxes on working Americans and did not cut money for education or the enforcement of environmental laws and if any tax deduction in the budget agreement went only to Americans making less than $100,000.
That proposal was also rejected.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On his way to a private retreat at Hilton Head, S.C., President Clinton greeted people at the Marine Corps Air Station in Beaufort, S.C.; Campaigning in New Hampshire, Senator Bob Dole and his wife, Elizabeth, posed in Concord for photos with residents and their families. (Photographs by Associated Press) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (90%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (87%); WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (90%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; DOLE, BOB (SEN); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); TOM DASCHLE (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



3 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: Forbes's Silver Bullet for the Nation's Malaise

SERIES: THE CONTENDERS -- Seventh article of a series.

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT 

DATELINE: COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa

 BODY:
In the back room of the restaurant 1892, a few dozen Iowa Republicans have gathered over identical entrees to listen to Steve Forbes. The invitation to the noontime event had suggested a $10 donation, presumably to cover the cost of the broiled chicken sandwich served with potato chips and iced tea. But the campaign staff has not pressed for a contribution, and almost no one in the audience, it seems, has paid.
Who says there's no free lunch? 
 Mr. Forbes, an heir to the famous publishing fortune, is running for President on a platform that promises virtually every American a tax cut without increasing the Federal deficit or reducing services. He proposes a flat tax on income which, he says, will spur so much economic growth that the drop in tax revenues will actually turn into a gain.
In the three months since he announced his candidacy, Mr. Forbes has already spent more than $7 million of his own money pushing his version of the flat tax and the effortless wealth he says it will generate. In that time he has confounded political odds makers and exasperated his opponents.
In polls, he has passed several candidates who have been campaigning for the Presidency for years, and recent surveys in Iowa and New Hampshire show him in second place.
It is, to be sure, a distant second to Senator Bob Dole; still, he is the only other candidate whose support registers in double digits.
Mr. Forbes, who has never before run for office, attributes his popularity to a message he calls "pro-growth, pro-hope, pro-opportunity."
"I think what it shows is the power of the message," he said during a trip on a chartered jet from Des Moines to Council Bluffs. "It also shows that people realize the other candidates don't have the message."
But others, and particularly his competitors, trace Mr. Forbes's rise directly to the personal fortune he is lavishing on his campaign.
Most of the millions Mr. Forbes has spent so far have gone to television advertising, and much of that to attack ads. And unlike the other candidates, who are taking Federal matching funds, Mr. Forbes is subject to no state-by-state limits on his spending. This gives him a special advantage in crucial states like Iowa and New Hampshire, with small populations that keep spending limits low.
A few weeks ago candidates like Lamar Alexander and Phil Gramm, desperately trying to get a clear shot at Mr. Dole, were ignoring Mr. Forbes. Now, they are openly challenging him and, in the process, revealing their frustration.
"Nobody wants to get chased down the street by a mad billionaire with a squash racquet," said Mr. Gramm's media adviser, Alex Castellanos.
Mr. Forbes, 48, is president of Forbes Inc. and is on leave from his job as editor of Forbes magazine, which was founded by his grandfather. He is the eldest son of the late Malcolm Forbes, the flamboyant publishing magnate perhaps most widely remembered for riding a motorcycle and playing escort to Elizabeth Taylor.
Yet, the younger Forbes offers hardly a glimmer of his father's elan. He is somber to the point of being soporific and must struggle his way to the occasional joke.
 
No Burning Ambition To Become President
Mr. Forbes insists that he has no burning ambition to be President and says he would not be in the race if another Republican candidate had come forward preaching confidence in the future and in Reaganomics. "I had no intention of doing it until it became apparent that there was a void in the Republican field this year," he said.
His candidacy is built around his economic vision. The country, he says, is poised for growth of historic proportions, if only the Federal tax code would get out of its way. "No one outside of Washington could have devised something more complex, more incomprehensible, more monstrous, more anti-growth, more anti-family than the tax code we have today," he told a crowd of about 150 supporters recently in Sioux City.
The flat tax, Mr. Forbes says, is the key to liberating the nation's economic potential. His version of the tax, similar to that proposed by Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, would, in essence, eliminate taxes on investment income. There would be no tax on interest, no tax on capital gains, no tax on inheritances and no tax on pensions -- just a 17 percent flat tax on income that would replace the graduated tax schedule, which now has a maximum rate of 39.6 percent. Exemptions would also be expanded to help those with lower incomes. A family of four whose income was $36,000 or less, for example, would pay no taxes at all. At the same time, there would be no deductions for home mortgage interest or for state and local taxes, and no earned income tax credit.
If enacted, the flat tax would represent a huge tax cut for the wealthiest Americans and, Mr. Forbes asserts, a sizable tax cut for almost everyone else. Mr. Forbes does not propose raising other sorts of fees or taxes to make up for the loss in revenue. Instead he invokes the logic of supply-side economics: cuts in the tax rate would lead to stunning growth in the economy that would, in turn, lead to increased tax collections.
"Every time in America that we've reduced tax rates, Government revenues have gone up," he said.
But many economists, including many conservative economists, are skeptical of this Alice-in-Wonderland optimism, and they note that when supply-side thinking was put into practice during the Reagan Presidency, revenues declined and staggering deficits were produced. Mr. Forbes pushes such objections aside by maintaining that the deficits of the Reagan years were the result not of tax cuts but a Congressional spending spree.
"The problem with the 1980's was that Washington spent the money, and then some," he said.
Along with the flat tax, Mr. Forbes calls for a return to something like the gold standard, which would tie the value of the dollar to a fixed measure. Aides say he does not actually advocate bringing back the gold standard -- something almost no economist would support -- but is simply advocating a policy similar to the anti-inflationary program the Federal Reserve has in recent years pursued. Nevertheless, Mr. Forbes maintains that his policy, unlike the Federal Reserve's, would bring mortgage rates down to 4.5 percent.
Mr. Forbes devotes much less attention to other issues, touching on them only briefly in his speeches. He favors privatizing part of the Social Security system, establishing term limits for members of Congress and providing school vouchers. He opposes affirmative action.
On abortion, an issue he only mentions when pressed, Mr. Forbes says that he wants "to help create an environment where abortions disappear in America." He does not advocate laws that would make abortion illegal, saying that what is needed is for the country to experience "a change of heart."
But Mr. Forbes fends off criticism that he is essentially a one-issue candidate, insisting that his detractors have missed the point of his flat-tax campaign. "Contrary to what some people would have you believe," he told the crowd in Sioux City, "there really is no difference between values and economics. They're one and the same."
 
First on the Offense In Negative Ads
Though it may seem incongruous for someone whose childhood home has a name -- Timberfield -- Mr. Forbes is running as an insurgent. He is, he often insists, an outsider.
But not too much of one. In his standard stump speech, Mr. Forbes talks about his many meetings with world leaders, including Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany. He often invokes his political experience as chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting, which oversees Radio Free Europe, and likes to say that from his travels he has amassed "more foreign experience than all of my opponents put together." More specifically, he has criticized President Clinton's stand on Bosnia.
In his public remarks, Mr. Forbes mentions his opponents only in passing. But in his commercials, he takes aim at them directly. He was the first candidate in the race to run negative commercials, and his media campaign has been devoted at least as much to attacking Mr. Dole and Mr. Gramm as it has been to touting his own ideas.
For example, one recent Forbes commercial broadcast in New Hampshire accuses Mr. Gramm of engineering a $100 billion tax increase as part of the 1990 budget. That ad prompted Mr. Gramm to broadcast a reply saying "Forbes's money talks, but it's not telling the truth." The Forbes campaign then responded with another ad insisting that the original commercial was accurate.
"In typical Washington fashion, they don't want people to know their record," Mr. Forbes said when asked about the exchange. (Senator Gramm was part of the team that negotiated the 1990 budget package; he later voted against the deal, however, and says he did not support it in its final form.)
 
A Clear Strategy With Obscure Goals
Mr. Forbes's advertising strategy is unusual for someone so little known. Generally, candidates try to establish their own credentials before starting to attack their opponents, and even some of Mr. Forbes's allies worry privately that the approach is flawed. But at least for now, it appears to be having the desired impact.
Here in Iowa, Mr. Forbes has already spent more than $1 million on radio and television advertising -- the legal limit for the other candidates -- and appears to be well on his way to doubling that. Because Iowa is a caucus state, where residents have to devote an entire evening to register a vote, conventional wisdom holds that advertising is not enough and that organization is crucial. But in a recent Des Moines Register poll of likely caucus goers, Mr. Forbes, who has almost no organization in the state, came out ahead of every other candidate except Mr. Dole.
"He's rewriting the Presidential rules," said Sal Russo, a Republican political consultant who has conducted focus groups for Mr. Forbes but is not working on his campaign. Mr. Forbes, Mr. Russo added, is demonstrating that a candidate can do "credibly" in Iowa without spending an inordinate amount of time there.
Mr. Forbes insists, though, that he is not in the race to do credibly, or to advance the supply-side cause, but to get the nomination. He does not, however, sound convincing when he says this.
Perhaps the most surprising thing about Mr. Forbes, after his popularity, is that he still cannot, or at least will not, explain how his strategy will lead to the nomination. "Expectations haven't really started yet," was all he would say when pressed to talk about what kind of showing he hoped to make in Iowa and New Hampshire.
His campaign manager, William Dal Col, predicted Mr. Forbes would do "exceptionally well" in Delaware, which holds its primary on Feb. 24, four days after New Hampshire, and where most of the candidates have not filed. He also forecast a strong showing in Arizona, which holds its primary on Feb. 27 and where the Forbes campaign appears to be breaking spending records. But he, too, demurred when asked where and how Mr. Forbes planned to win. "The other campaigns can predict their victories," he said. "I'll simply predict that we expect to do well."
Aides to his rivals say the reason the Forbes camp is not offering an explanation of how his strategy will work is because there is none. In the end, they maintain, Republican primary voters simply will not nominate for President a man who has never held public office.
"Money can buy you love," said Mr. Castellanos, Mr. Gramm's adviser. "But it can't buy you the Presidency."
 
The Contenders
 
TUESDAY -- Senator Bob Dole of Kansas.
 
WEDNESDAY -- Senator Phil Gramm of Texas.
 
THURSDAY -- Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana.
 
FRIDAY -- Former Governor Lamar Alexander of Tennessee.
 
SATURDAY -- Representative Robert K. Dornan, Alan L. Keyes and Morry Taylor.
 
YESTERDAY -- Patrick J. Buchanan.
 
TODAY -- Steve Forbes.
 
Future articles will examine the political strategy and image of President Clinton, and the political landscape at the start of the 1996 political season.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Forbes, the Republican Candidate who is advocating a flat tax. (Fred Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Steve Forbes, a Republican candidate for President, at the Registry of Deeds in Keene, N.H., during a campaign stop for the New Hampshire primary. His central proposal is for a flat-rate Federal income tax. (Associated Press) (pg. 10)
 
 
Chart: "BIOGRAPHY: Malcolm Stevenson Forbes Jr."
 
CURRENT JOB -- President and chief executive of Forbes Inc. and editor in chief of Forbes magazine (on leave).
 
BORN -- July 18, 1947, Morristown, N.J.
 
EDUCATION -- Princeton University, B.A., 1970; the Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.
 
RELIGION -- Protestant.
 
MILITARY SERVICE -- New Jersey National Guard, 1970-1976, six months of active duty, the rest reserve duty.
 
MARRIED -- Sabina Beekman in 1971.
 
CHILDREN -- Sabina and Roberta, twins, 22, Catherine, 19, Moira, 16, and Elizabeth, 8.
 
GOVERNMENT POSITION -- Chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting, appointed position, 1985-1993.
 
OTHER MAJOR POSITIONS -- Chairman of the board, Empower America, 1993-1995; trustee of Princeton University and of the American Enterprise Institute. (pg. 10)
 
 
"Forbes: In His Own Words"
"The virtues of the flat tax are several. It is simple; you can fill it out on a postcard. It is fair because it removes millions of people from the Federal income tax rolls. It is honest in that it takes away the principal source of power in Washington." . . .
"You know from your history that the power to tax is the power to destroy. Washington uses the tax code to dispense favors and to get power and contributions in return. I think most people in their hearts know that the tax code is not fair today; even the tax collector can't understand it anymore." -- Campaign speech in Sioux City, Iowa, Dec. 15, 1995

 	 	 		--------------------	 	"The career politicians here in Washington, unaware of the fantastic growth waiting to burst forth in our economy, spend their time dividing up an ever-shrinking pie. They take from one group in order to dole out favors to others, undermining our trust in the basic fairness of the American system and causing division, envy and bitterness. In order to get their way, they libel the good American people with accusations of racism, sexism and selfishness. And then they wonder why politics has turned into such a nasty business."
Announcement speech at National Press Club, Washington, Sept. 22, 1995

 	 	 		--------------------	 	"The American economy is like the greatest marathon runner in the world, but we're trying to compete with two 50-pound cinder blocks chained to our legs. It's time to remove the dead weight of Washington and let the American economy run free."
Speech to the National Federation of Independent Business, Washington, Oct. 23, 1995

 	 	 		--------------------	 	"I think at the end of the day what voters are looking for is somebody who has an understanding of what the frustrations of the country are, what our opportunities are, what are the barriers that stand in the way of realizing those opportunities. They also want to have a sense that a President has an internal compass, a sense of direction, a sense of purpose that will be able to withstand an adverse poll or focus group. A lot of people I think are kind of depressed with their public officials these days because many of those officials practice what you might call the political equivalent of painting by the numbers. And it's not art and it's not leadership."
Interview with The New York Times, Dec. 15, 1995

 	 	 		--------------------	 	"I'm like an entrepreneur with a new product. Not until you actually put it in the marketplace will you find out if it actually works."
Interview in The Washington Post, Aug. 7, 1995 (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series; Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (59%); BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (59%); BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; FLAT TAX; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MATCHING GIFTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); NATIONAL DEBT (55%); 

PERSON: FORBES, STEVE LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



4 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: A Dial Tone All the Same

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
Lawmakers and journalists like to describe the impending deregulation of the nation's telecommunications industry as revolutionary, sweeping, even historic. That may be true for telecommunications companies. But for most Americans, life immediately after deregulation will not seem much different than life before it.
At the outset, before the din of telemarketing starts, it may actually be a bit quieter. The titans of the telephone business -- the local and long-distance carriers -- will call off their lobbyists and cease the chorus of advertisements that have championed one position and denigrated others. 
 "A hush is going to come over the industry for about a year and a half," said Daniel Reingold, a telecommunications analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company.
Before anything can happen, of course, the legislation has to become law. That is still generally expected to happen early this year, although Senator Bob Dole, the Republican majority leader, criticized some of the provisions in the bill last week, which could delay passage.
If and when the legislation does take effect, Mr. Reingold and other experts said, state regulators and the Federal Communications Commission will spend most of this next year just setting new ground rules for the game.
"Ironically, at least in the short term, deregulation probably means more regulation," said David Roddy, chief telecommunications economist at the accounting and consulting firm Deloitte & Touche.
To say that the regulators face some knotty issues is an understatement. The changes envisioned in the bill would affect virtually every corner of the industry. Among other things, it would throw open the local and long-distance telephone markets to competition from many directions: regional Bell operating companies, long-distance carriers, even cable-television companies.
But in doing so, it would raise important questions: How much competition should a Bell company face in its monopoly local market before it is allowed to compete in long distance? How much should a local phone company charge a long-distance carrier to connect its local calls? And how should new local competitors, like the long-distance carriers or cable companies, share in the burden of providing residential phone service to poor customers?
It will fall to the F.C.C. and the state public service commissions to adjudicate most of these issues. And given the billions of dollars riding on their decisions, local and long-distance companies are almost certain to file a flurry of grievances and lawsuits.
"The bill is a significant step," said Peter Huber, a legal scholar who studied the state of competition in the telecommunications industry for the Justice Department in 1986. "But does it clear away all the underbrush? No, it doesn't."
Once the underbrush is finally cleared, analysts and communications executives said, the industry was likely to embark on a substantial transformation. Reports abound that Nynex and Bell Atlantic are exploring a merger, which would create the nation's second-largest telephone company. Or, the companies may create a joint venture to get into the long-distance phone business.
Analysts foresee a range of other possible combinations, including mergers of other Baby Bells, a merger of a Bell company with a long-distance provider like MCI Communications, an alliance between a local phone company and an overseas carrier, or a merger of a Bell company and a cable TV concern.
In all these cases, the goal for companies is to bulk up for a world of freewheeling competition. "Economies of scale make a lot of sense for phone companies," said William Bane, a telecommunications consultant at Mercer Management Consulting in Washington.
But Mr. Bane said that many phone companies could achieve their goal of offering customers a package of services without buying up or merging with the nearest competitor. Bell companies can offer long-distance service quite easily once the regulatory obstacles are removed by the states in their regions. Outside their regions, they can lease capacity on the networks owned by long-distance carriers like AT&T, MCI or Sprint.
For the long-distance carriers, the outlook is a bit cloudier. Lacking the Bell companies' direct physical connections to local customers, long-distance companies intending to compete with the Bells would need to forge ties with cable companies or invest in wireless communications to leap the critical gap between their networks and the customer's home phone.
For that reason, Wall Street analysts like Mr. Reingold are now far more chary about the stock performance of long-distance companies, while they are warming up to the prospects of the Baby Bells.
Adding to their enthusiasm for the Bells, many analysts also believe that the seven regional companies will throttle back on their ambitious and costly expansion into television to concentrate on the long-distance market.
Bell Atlantic recently began testing a telephone system that delivers video programming to 200 customers in Toms River, N.J. But the company's deployment of the system elsewhere in its six-state region has been delayed by regulatory and technological hurdles.
Bell Atlantic is continuing to pour money into Tele-TV, the television joint venture it started with Nynex and the Pacific Telesis Group. But with "switched digital video," Bell Atlantic's network technology of choice, developing more slowly than the company expected, Tele-TV has opted for wireless cable as an interim technology to transmit its programs.
Whoever ends up delivering the services to consumers, analysts and executives are convinced that open competition will lead to lower prices and more choice. In particular, analysts said, local companies will be in a position to offer cut-rate prices for long-distance service because they will be able to lease capacity from long-distance carriers at very favorable rates.
Consumers will probably have to pay for these savings by withstanding a blitz of advertising as the big players all vie to provide their local and long-distance service. "A great business in 1996 will be an advertising agency that specializes in telecommunications ads," Mr. Roddy said.
Some consumer advocates worry that the supposed savings may never materialize for many consumers.
For one thing, the most robust competition is likely to be confined to large metropolitan areas where the concentrations of people and money make it potentially lucrative enough to fight a price war.
Moreover, some consumer groups and long-distance executives contend that the pending legislation will allow the regional Bell companies into long-distance without breaking their monopolistic grip on local service.
"The way Congress wants to deregulate the industry would give the Bells a huge head start," said Bradley Stillman, the director of telecommunications policy at the Consumer Federation of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION DEREGULATION (95%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); TELEMARKETING (77%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); LITIGATION (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (53%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK DANIEL REINGOLD (67%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); WILLIAM BANE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



5 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1952 words

HEADLINE: When Pointing and Clicking Fails to Click;
More and More Questions, and Employees, at Computer Help Services

SERIES: @ Work -- Guides to Techology's Maze

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: NOVATO, Calif.

 BODY:
Their pay is modest, their labors are unheralded, and even their bosses admit that the job is grueling. Each second of their work is electronically monitored; the corporate Big Brother is always watching. So are these people seething with working-class resentment? Hardly. "This is the entry-level job of the 90's," explained Colleen Dolan, a 43-year-old former kindergarten teacher, who joined Broderbund Software Inc. last year. "This is where the jobs are."
Unlikely as it seems, the computer help-desk job is one of the fastest-growing occupations in America's high-technology economy. These workers are voices at the end of phone lines at hardware and software companies and at specialist technical-support firms. They try to walk frazzled users of personal computers through the confusing labyrinth of "drivers," "extensions" and "win.ini" and "config.sys" commands often required to stir a frozen children's game or a desktop publishing program back to life. 
 This is the busiest time of the year on computer help desks around the country. The new computers and software people received as Christmas presents are unwrappped, turned on, loaded up and . . . oops.
The ads rapturously proclaim how easy computer technology is to use these days: Simply point and click, and off you go, effortlessly, through a wondrous new world of information, entertainment and empowerment. The reality, though, is that using a PC still bears a certain similarity to driving a car in the early days of the automobile -- it helps to be a self-taught mechanic, able to fix the machine, when it inevitably breaks down.
Most people do not have those computer skills. With PC sales to households growing at twice the rate of the business market, more and more customers are first-time computer users, who need the most help. Americans will make an estimated 200 million calls to help desks in 1996, up from 120 million four years ago. The average length of a call has increased to 13 minutes from 8, according to Dataquest Inc., a research firm. At an estimated cost of $1.50 a minute to the company, calls to help desks amount to a $3.9 billion annual expense for the personal computer business. Companies often charge for some support services, but those revenues are a fraction of the help-desk costs.
Desktop software companies, like Microsoft and Broderbund, receive the most customer calls for help. So they have spent the most on technical support -- the industry's term -- and have added the most to their help staffs. In 1989, 1 of every 12 employees in PC software companies was in technical support. Today, that ratio is 1 in 6, according to Dataquest.
At the Microsoft Corporation, for example, 3,400 people -- 1 in 5 workers -- are now in technical support. The 1995 price tag for the work: $600 million.
"Every software company is struggling with this growing cost," said Deborah Willingham, vice president of support for Microsoft. "It's an essential service for customers, but we've got to stop it from becoming a runaway spending machine."
To cope with the flood of calls and rising costs, software companies are trying just about everything, from installing sophisticated data base and diagnostic software to lift the productivity of help-desk workers to setting up sites on the Internet's World Wide Web so PC users can help themselves. In doing so, they are elevating the corporate status of long-neglected customer-support operations.
"The support people used to be the grunts of software companies," said Kurt Johnson, an analyst for the International Data Corporation, a research firm. "But now, the companies recognize these people are crucial. Support can make or break a company."
Yet for all the new technology and changed priorities, life on the computer help desk remains largely a one-to-one affair, a conversation between a worker and an anguished consumer seeking help. In that sense, the help-desk worker is like the radio talk-show host or the newspaper advice columnist, inviting familiarity between strangers who share problems and personal asides.
Here at Broderbund's offices in Marin County, about 30 miles north of San Francisco, the job finds its purest expression: helping the public rather than more sophisticated business customers. Broderbund's titles -- Myst, Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?, Print Shop Deluxe, Kid Pix Studio, Math Workshop and others -- are marketed to home computer users.
Last Wednesday at 9 A.M., three hours after the help desk's starting time, Mason Woodbury, a Broderbund vice president, looked at a computer screen and found the results encouraging. Seventy-one people on the phones, 56 calls waiting, and callers waiting 8 minutes or so to talk to someone. Eight minutes is nearly three times the wait in normal periods, but, Mr. Woodbury said, "it's not bad for this time of year."
Broderbund, Mr. Woodbury said, has all the state-of-the-art help-desk tools. It uses sophisticated diagnostic software. It has sites for on-line help on America Online, Compuserve and the Microsoft Network. It has its own electronic bulletin board, and in October it opened its own site on the World Wide Web.
But the on-line alternatives to phone calls are useful mainly as supplementary tools, Mr. Woodbury said. "Our focus is still on dealing with people over the phone one-to-one and improving the quality of that communication," he said.
Toward that end, Mr. Woodbury has tried to change the culture of Broderbund's help desk since he joined the company four years ago. He has done that mainly by changing the people, which was easy for two reasons: He added staff members quickly, and an employee's average stay on a help desk is just a couple of years.
Traditionally, he explained, help desks were called "technical support" because they were staffed by technical people. Too often, he said, the technicians did not like talking to people and believed that because they understood computers, everyone else should, too. Calling a help desk was regarded as a sign of failure, if not inferiority.
Mr. Woodbury mocked the old-style help-desk culture, saying to an imagined caller: "What? You don't know what a clean-boot disk is?"
To an imagined colleague, he added: "Hey Frank, we've got another moron on the line over here."
These days, Mr. Woodbury explained, his ideal help-desk candidate is a former teacher, someone who likes people and wants to get into the computer business, who is enthusiastic about PC's but not really a computer person.
Someone like Colleen Dolan, the former kindergarten teacher. Ms. Dolan said that for 10 years she was "a stay-at-home mom," raising her two daughters, Chelsea, who is now 12, and Sabrina, 8. But a few years ago, Ms. Dolan, a divorced mother, refreshed her teaching credentials and looked for teaching jobs, but found work in Marin County only as a substitute teacher. Needing steady work, she showed up at Broderbund's doorstep in August 1994. She was familiar with its children's and educational software, and she had an Apple Macintosh computer at home in nearby Fairfax, Calif.
"But I had no computer experience whatsoever," she said. "I was surprised that they hired me."
Broderbund help-desk representatives, like Ms. Dolan, handle 40 to 70 calls a day, depending on the length of the calls. They labor at standard-issue work stations with beige partitions, tethered to telephone headsets and their personal computers.
They make $20,000 to $29,000 a year and generally see the job as a steppingstone rather than a dead end. They view the help desk as a one- to three-year commitment on the way to jobs in marketing, product development or other areas, with higher salaries, stock options and flexible working hours. And it happens; last week, three Broderbund help-desk workers moved on to other departments.
Ms. Dolan wants to work in the Broderbund department that sells educational software to schools. But that is the future, and at 11:20 A.M. last Wednesday, Howard from Gainesville, Fla., was on the line with a problem. He was unable to run his Print Shop program, which is used to design greeting cards, newsletters, posters and other home printing projects.
After Ms. Dolan asked Howard a few questions about his PC's horsepower and what he had on his screen, it seemed evident that he was running too many programs at once, hogging the temporary memory, or RAM, needed to get the Print Shop program going. So Ms. Dolan guided him through shutting down some of his other programs.
Eventually, Howard shut them down and double-clicked with his mouse on Print Shop. Was it running? "Oh yes, yes, thank you."
Broderbund gives its help-desk employees guidelines: Speak English instead of computer jargon, empathize with the customers, offer solutions and never say, "I don't know." But the style of help-desk patter varies from individual to individual. Ms. Dolan disarms ruffled callers with extra helpings of courtesy, and fills gaps in the conversation with banter.
"It's teaching," Ms. Dolan explained later. "I'm teaching all day long. It's a lot like teaching kindergarten. It's basic information and you have to be kind."
There are new college graduates on the Broderbund help desk, but a surprising number of the workers are people seeking new starts in life, who gravitate to the high-technology economy, like Ms. Dolan or Drew Coughlin.
After graduating from Penn State University, Mr. Coughlin, who grew up in a small town (Tidioute, Pa.) and rarely traveled, decided that he wanted to see the world. But at 31, he decided it was time to settle down for a while.
He joined Broderbund in July, and he and his wife, Pamela, a registered nurse, now live on a sailboat in nearby Sausalito. "It's about the only place you can live in Marin County on my salary," Mr. Coughlin said.
Mr. Coughlin hopes to be off the help desk in another six months. He would like to work for the Broderbund department that assesses proposed programs, much as a movie-studio reader judges the screenplays of Hollywood hopefuls.
Like other help-desk workers, Mr. Coughlin is familiar with the field's classic anecdotes -- the woman who puts the mouse on the floor and tries to pump it as if it was a sewing-machine pedal, or the man who holds the mouse up and points it at the screen as if it was a television remote control.
In the 4,827 calls fielded last Wednesday by Broderbund's help desk, the diversity of the callers was striking. They called from Vancouver and Staten Island, they ranged from grandparents to children, and they were at every imaginable level of computer skill.
One boy, Shane from Tesuque, N.M., called Mr. Coughlin in the afternoon, having trouble with the latest version of Prince of Persia, a computer game. "Basically, it randomly freezes up on me," he said.
Eventually, Mr. Coughlin discerned that Shane's problem was an "extension" -- or bit of software code -- on a virus-checking program on his computer that was preventing his game from running smoothly. "Yeah," Shane replied with aplomb, "I thought it was an extensions conflict."
After a marathon day on the help desk that began at 6 A.M. and ended nearly 12 hours later, Mr. Coughlin was weary, but he said he found the work satisfying. "I don't have any signs of burnout yet," he said. "But in another six months, I may."

 The computer industry is expected to be a chief engine of job creation in America and abroad over the next decade. Unlike other growth fields -- health care and residential care -- this one is creating a unique class of jobs, some new and some transformed. This series of articles profiles the people who fill these jobs and the world in which they work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drew Coughlin works on the telephone help desk at Broderbund Software, where the period after Christmas is one of the busiest times of the year. (Marc Geller for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Help! I Need Somebody..." shows where computer users say they call when they have a problem. (Dataquest); "...Not Just Anybody" shows what computer users say they want from technical support. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (80%); BRODERBUND SOFTWARE INC (72%); DATAQUEST INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); CONSULTANTS; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; LABOR; PERSONAL COMPUTERS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); CHRISTMAS (66%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



6 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Where the High-Tech Jobs Are

 BODY:
While jumping on the Internet bandwagon seems to be the latest rage, the second-largest fad for the computer industry is coming up with ever-sillier nicknames for the areas that house their home offices. Silicon Valley was one of the first, but that has spawned Multimedia Gulch (the area in San Francisco known for web site and CD-ROM development), Siliwood (the meeting place of technology and Hollywood somewhere slightly north of Silicon Valley) and Silicon Alley (New York City's attempt to claim a piece of the multimedia pie.)
 Boston is known for its Route 128, a rough aggregation of companies like Digital Equipment and the Lotus division of I.B.M., Texas has Texas Instruments and the software companies in Austin, and Washington state has Bill Gates and his friends. Minnesota is a surprising blip on the map, but further inspection reveals that Control Data, Honeywell, 3M and other hardware and software companies make their home in that state. 
 The maps are a broad indicator of computer employment. The computer industry is projected to be one of the three top job-creating fields in the next decade.

GRAPHIC: Map of the U.S. showing areas with the most employees in a computer-related industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); WAGES AND SALARIES; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PERSONAL COMPUTERS EMPLOYMENT (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



7 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Taking In the Sites;
A Virtually Balanced Budget

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Anyone who has taken the time to follow the budget impasse between Democrats and Republicans in the nation's capital may secretly believe that he or she could resolve matters in minutes, if only given the chance.
On the Internet's World Wide Web, such armchair critics can indulge their Capraesque fantasies without having to follow Mr. Smith to Washington or wading through the arcana of foot-thick budget proposals. A computer model called the National Budget Simulation allows browsers to emulate the budget negotiators; all they have to do is point and click with their computer mouse. 
 The simulation, created by the Center for Community Economic Research at the University of California at Berkeley, divides the Federal budget into more than two dozen categories, ranging from agriculture to veterans' benefits. Moving down the list, one can cut or increase spending in each category. A section on tax breaks allows players to close loopholes or raise corporate taxes.
After the users make their choices, a computer at Berkeley calculates the results, revealing the size of the resulting deficit or surplus.
The simulation is a great way to procure ammunition for political arguments with friends and family, or to simply test long-held assumptions. For those who want to delve deeper, the National Budget Simulation home page is a good jumping-off point for a look at a copy of the President's proposed 1996 budget, a "citizen's guide" produced by the White House and some critiques of the budget bill recently passed by the Republican-controlled House of Representatives.
The Republican view is well represented at a site created by the party's Congressional delegation from Washington State. And no tour of the nation's budget woes would be complete without a stop at the National Debt Clock, the real-time record of the country's red ink. The clock is now available on line, thanks to an outfit called Fusebox.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) BUDGETS (97%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TAX LAW (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (68%); TAX INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); VETERANS (54%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



8 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: DIGITAL COMMERCE;
A few resolutions for high-tech movers and shakers.

BYLINE: By Denise Caruso 

 BODY:
DESPITE the mood swings of high-tech stocks throughout last year, at the dawn of 1996 more people in the world are computerized, World Wide Webbed or dripping rich from Internet-related public stock offerings than anyone would have dreamed of at the dawn of 1995.
Yet there is always room for improvement. So as a public service, this column offers a few New Year's resolutions for those in the business who might otherwise be tempted to overlook their shortcomings. 
 For the the Netscape Communications Corporation, the high-flying Internet software company, and for America Online, the premier commercial on-line service provider: Kindly resolve to stop vacuuming up new companies and adding technologies to your software offerings, and fix what you're selling today.
While using either Netscape's World Wide Web browser or logging onto America Online's overloaded system, it is routine for active users to have their computers crash at least once a day. Is this why everyone is so hot on the idea of a $500 "network computer"? So there is only a network connection and no hard drive to crash? As they say in the software world: Is that a bug or a feature?
For any commercial enterprise getting ready to start a site on the World Wide Web: Resolve to scotch your plans immediately unless you can honestly answer the question, "Why?" with one of the following responses:
1. "I know my customers have computers and Internet connections, and I have products they can buy using the Web for transactions."
2. "My customers say they're ready and willing to pay cash money to get their information and/or entertainment from the Web."
3. "I have figured out a killer business plan that will be profitable in three years without 100 percent advertising support and without siphoning profit from other divisions of my giant media conglomerate."
(Please note that "Everyone is doing it" is not one of the listed responses.)
For President Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, members of the United States Congress and all the various Federal regulatory bodies: Resolve that within the first 30 days of the new year, you'll paste a copy of the Bill of Rights alongside your computers, get an Internet account, and -- most important -- log on and use the Net.
It's only by doing this that our public servants can clearly see the damage they risk to a surging new information marketplace with censorship legislation. Free speech is vital to the practice of democracy and the growth of commerce. It is the only environment in which the information economy of the next century can thrive.
For Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates: As if you didn't have enough on your mind, you have even more reason now to watch your back -- not for the Justice Department, Oracle or Netscape, but for Steven Johnson. Mr. Johnson, editor in chief of Feed, a Webzine (http://www.feed mag.com) resolves that in the new year he will jack into the network of the Gates mansion and replace all his digital art with wall-sized reproductions of dogs playing poker.
For journalists and social activists: On the heels of last week's announcement that Compuserve is being censored by the German Government, you should resolve this year to start using encryption technology for your electronic communication.
Jim Warren, an on-line activist, believes that the PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) public-key encryption program, available free via the Internet and legal to use and distribute in the United States, will become a de facto requirement for journalists and others who want to protect their information and messages from prying eyes -- Government or otherwise.
Mr. Warren says that those trying to gather or divulge sensitive information won't dare communicate any other way, and encourages people to look into PGPfone software for voice communications as well.
For Apple Computer's executive staff: Based on your long-standing inability to keep Apple's superior products competitive in a hot and fast-growing market, resolve to reflect on the tradition among Japanese managers at faltering companies. They've been known to resign their posts amid a flurry of suitable apologies to shareholders.
Apple executives have consistently under-forecast demand for the company's computers and squandered the organization's formidable technical and creative energy on dead-end projects like Kaleida and Taligent, joint ventures with I.B.M. that both died in 1995. When they finally do something right, like license the Macintosh operating system to clone makers, they get all picky about whom they'll allow to manufacture them.
So here's one last tip: If Steve Jobs is asking, sell him a license. A cheap, black Next box running Mac software won't save Apple, but it would neatly close the loop on Apple's unfocused, chaotic decade since his 1985 ouster from the company he founded.
Finally, one for the Wall Street analysts and the members of the news media who cover technology: Resolve to stop letting visionaries set your agenda.
Technology can be addictive, especially when it is attached to vast sums of investment money with the promise of exponential returns. But Wall Street's naivete about what technology can deliver (and the mass media's parroting of this so-called expertise) have consistently fed nasty boom-and-bust cycles that make only a few people very rich, very quickly. One need only look to the interactive television and CD-ROM start-up companies of the last few years for too many examples of what happens when the bottom falls out and oversold promises cannot meet expectations.
In fact, the best resolution that anyone who works in the converging worlds of technology, media and the Internet can make for 1996, after last year's giddy public offerings and chaotic growth, is to look beyond the big money and hype to focus on the hard work it takes to build a real industry from the promises of vision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW YEAR COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); INTERNET BROWSERS (75%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); CENSORSHIP (72%); LEGISLATION (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); 

PERSON: CARUSO, DENISE BILL GATES (54%); BILL CLINTON (52%); AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



9 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Howard Petersen, 85, Banker and Trade Adviser

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Howard C. Petersen, a former president and chairman of the Fidelity Bank of Philadelphia who had earlier held posts in the Truman and Kennedy Administrations, died on Thursday at his home in Radnor, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 85.
The cause was cardiac arrest, and he had been in declining health, said his wife, the former Elizabeth Watts. 
 Mr. Petersen was the chief executive of Fidelity Bank from 1966 to 1975. He again ran the bank for a brief period in 1978.
At that time, Fidelity, which had $2.6 billion in deposits in 1977, was one of the larger regional banks.
Mr. Petersen was also Fidelity's president from 1950 to 1966 and its chairman from 1966 to 1978. The bank is now part of First Fidelity Bank and is soon to be merged into First Union National Bank.
He originally joined Fidelity as executive vice president in 1947, when it was known as the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company.
Although Mr. Petersen was a Republican, he was special assistant to President John F. Kennedy for international trade policy in 1961 and 1962 and Assistant Secretary of War from 1945 to 1947 under President Harry S. Truman. He was also prominent early in the campaign for the nomination of Dwight D. Eisenhower as the Republican Presidential candidate in 1952.
When President Kennedy named Mr. Petersen, an expert in international economics, in 1961 as a special assistant, the White House announcement of his appointment said his job was "to advise and assist in the development of a new international trade program."
Mr. Petersen acquired his expertise in international economics as Assistant Secretary of War under Mr. Truman after World War II. In that post, Mr. Petersen's tasks included working on the economics of occupied Germany and of other war-ravaged nations.
At the time that he stepped down as Assistant Secretary, he was supervising the United States' military government activities in Germany, Japan, Korea, Austria and Italy and was the War Department's chief representative at the State Department on all matters involving political policy.
As Assistant Secretary of War, Mr. Petersen was sometimes outspoken. In 1947, he warned at a Washington news conference that the United States must give priority to food shipments to the American-occupied zone of western Germany. Otherwise, he declared, Communism might gain a foothold in the zone.
Earlier that year, he announced War Department action to alleviate the threat of famine and of resulting food riots in Italy: the diverting in midocean of six Germany-bound, wheat-laden ships to Italian ports.
Earlier in the 1940's, he held lesser War Department posts, helped to write the Selective Service Act and wrote implementing rules and regulations after it became law.
He was also a director of the Panama Canal Corporation under Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy.
Mr. Petersen was born in East Chicago, Ind., graduated from high school there and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1930 from DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., and a law degree in 1933 from the University of Michigan. From 1933 to 1941, he was an associate in the New York law firm that was then called Cravath, deGersdorff, Swaine & Wood.
Over the years, he was variously a trustee of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Committee for Economic Development and chairman of the boards of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., the University of Pennsylvania Museum and the Marshall Foundation.
In addition to his wife of 59 years, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Spiro Clark of Washington; two grandsons; and a sister, Ruth Sfura of Munster, Ill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); ITALY (90%); PANAMA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FIDELITY BANK HOLDINGS LTD (85%); FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK OF CONNECTICUT (56%); FIRST FIDELITY BANK NA (56%); WAR DEPARTMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAR DEPARTMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); ITALY (90%); PANAMA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (87%); WORLD WAR II (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); US SELECTIVE SERVICE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); FAMINE (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (60%); RIOTS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, HOWARD C; PACE, ERIC JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



10 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: For More and More Job Seekers, An Aging Parent Is a Big Factor

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Just over a year ago, after much soul-searching, Robert W. Crispin turned down a plum job as one of the top three executives of a prestigious company on the West Coast. He decided instead to stay in Hartford, within easy visiting distance of his ailing 90-year-old father-in-law in northwest Pennsylvania.
"We tried to figure out ways to deal with this," Mr. Crispin said. "We talked about opportunities to travel back to the East. But traveling transcontinental every couple of weeks is not easy, and I was very concerned about how my wife would agonize, and how much she would have to be away from me and my 14-year-old daughter." 
 The company even offered to move Mr. Crispin's in-laws, but he thought that would be too disruptive.
Just when corporations were getting used to the "trailing spouse" -- the wife or husband whose career puts obstacles in the way of business moves -- a new problem is cropping up. The graying of America is starting to create "trailing parents," who pose even bigger relocation hurdles.
Nobody knows the exact extent of the problem. But already an estimated 10 to 12 percent of the work force is responsible for caring for an aging relative, said Andrew Scharlach, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley. By 2020, Mr. Scharlach projects, one in three people will have to provide care for an elderly parent. The Conference Board, a business research group, estimates even more people will be affected -- as many as 40 percent before 2000.
With many more elderly parents to care for, more employees will face tough choices in deciding whether to move. "This is a new factor in the job equation," said Durant A. Hunter, president of Pendleton James & Associates, a search firm.
It is also a new wrinkle for the American economy, which has always depended on a high degree of mobility.
Like that first laugh line or gray hair, the problem is barely attracting notice -- yet. But as baby boomers start turning 50 in 1996, their parents, who are expected to live longer than any previous generation, will ascend into their 70's and beyond. Soon, more and more Americans will find themselves in the same position as Mr. Crispin, who is 48.
Companies are only beginning to deal with the implications of trailing parents. A few, like Apple Computer Inc., have sometimes agreed to foot the bill for moving elderly relatives rather than settle for a second choice in important personnel appointments. But many, fearing high costs, do not want to acknowledge the problem.
Besides, no matter who pays, moving elderly people to unfamiliar surroundings often causes problems. Whether they live with a child, in a nursing home, or on their own, they risk social isolation and increased dependence on their children.
"This was not on our radar screen a few years ago," said Cris Collie, executive vice president of the Employee Relocation Council, a business-supported organization in Washington. "But the growth in concern is astronomical."
Meanwhile, corporations are ever-eager for a mobile work force. In a study released in May, 80.9 percent of the 147 companies surveyed by Atlas Van Lines said they expected to transfer more employees in 1995 than in 1994. Sixty-two percent said they expected to move more people in 1999 than in 1994.
And those numbers do not include the outside talent that companies increasingly seek to fill crucial slots. But with a larger number of people looking after elderly relatives, corporations are likely to see some of their choices stymied -- even at top levels.
"I have had two or three cases in a row where it was definitely a factor," said Mr. Hunter, the corporate headhunter.
Frederick W. Wackerle, a recruiter at McFeely Wackerle Shulman in Chicago, echoed the concern. In each recent search by his firm for a chief executive, "there's been one candidate who has needed to stay close to an elderly parent in their 80's or 90's."
Usually, recruiters said, such candidates temporarily drop out of the job-changing market, restrict how far they will move, or both. Mr. Crispin, for example, did move to a new job after his father-in-law died last spring. But the post -- as executive vice president and chief financial officer of the UNUM Corporation -- is in Portland, Me., still a relatively short flight from Pennsylvania, where his mother-in-law and his own parents, all in their 80's, live.
Not everyone is fortunate enough to stay in the running for a job. John F. Johnson, a recruiter at Lamalie Amrop International in Cleveland, said his firm recently considered candidates for a $500,000-a-year job. "One executive told us that he'd look at the opportunity, but might not pursue it because of elder-care responsibilities," Mr. Johnson recalled. "We decided not to pursue him."
Mr. Johnson said the issue currently affects "a very small minority of individuals in our work." But he added, "I don't always know if they will tell me about this."
Relocation specialists agreed that people often do not volunteer the information, lest they be left out of the running for promotions. Even so, in a survey of employees at eight large companies conducted by Rodgers & Associates, a research firm in Boston, 37 percent of those who identified themselves as providing care for an elderly relative said they were not interested in relocating. By comparison, 26 percent of all employees said they would not be interested in such jobs.
And in the 1995 Atlas Van Lines survey, "family ties" edged out "spousal employment" for the second consecutive year as the primary reason employees turned down a relocation. It was cited by 64 percent of respondents. Concern for elderly relatives was undoubtedly a large part of that, relocation experts said.
Recent Census Bureau statistics show that Americans over all are moving less frequently in the 1990's than they have in decades past, though they still relocate more often than people in Western Europe and Japan. In a one-year period ending in March 1994, 16.7 percent of the population changed residences, down from the 20 percent that was typical in the 1950's and '60's.
Many companies have not yet decided how to respond to the elder-care problem. "People are starting to voice it, but it has not become an outcry yet," said T. J. Chiles Jr., director of work force diversity at the International Business Machines Corporation. Like many companies, I.B.M. -- whose initials, it was often said, stood for "I've Been Moved" -- has no policy on moving elderly parents, unless they live with the employee. Then, they move with the household.
Sometimes, though, the rules are bending to circumstances. "We do not move multiple households," said Kathleen Curtis, relocation manager at Apple Computer. "But we don't grill employees either. If they say parents are living with them, we do it."
Other trend-setting companies are winking at the rules, too. "We will move the new hire or the transferee and their dependents living at home," said Burke Stinson, a spokesman for the AT&T Corporation. He said if he were a transferee with a parent in a nursing home, "I'd just make arrangements to move him or her into my home for a month before the move."
In the Atlas survey, only 3 percent of the companies said they would move an elderly person who would not share the employee's home at the new location. In reality, though, these decisions are often made on an individual basis.
"Most companies are at the point where if someone's supervisor says, 'I want this to happen for this person,' they make an exception and pay for it," said Steve Mumma of Atlas Van Lines.
But there are few hard-and-fast rules in this sensitive area. Before setting a policy, "we'd have to see that people who are critical to us in managing our business are unable to accept assignments because of this," said Mr. Chiles of I.B.M.
The trouble is, employers may not know how an employee's personal responsibilities affect his or her professional life. "Transferees are not requesting help because there are so many other things that they are asking for," said Donna J. Malinek, president of Forward Mobility, a relocation consulting firm in Bernardsville, N.J. "They either turn down the transfer or they cope with moving the elderly parent themselves."
That, in turn, can create family tensions, Ms. Malinek said. "The spouse tends to do all the legwork to reconnect the elderly parent with the community, and that's an awful lot of work," she said.
Help with those tasks -- already provided for employees who need to find schools for their children and job opportunities for their spouses -- may be as important to transferees with responsibilities for parental care as paying for the moving van.
When one man was transferred from Cupertino, Calif., to Modesto, Calif., last year, his ailing mother-in-law, a stroke victim in her mid-70's who was living in a convalescent home, moved with the family. The employer, a large consumer products company, paid for the move and also for Forward Mobility to identify appropriate nursing homes in Modesto. As part of its package, Forward Mobility also researched doctors, hospital contacts and home health aides.
But "this is not standard policy among corporations," said Bonnie E. Graziano, a manager at Forward Mobility. "It's usually done on a case-by-case basis." Companies that pay for help with child-care and other family issues are the most likely to approve it, she added.
There is no question that demand for such services will grow. "It's when people reach the 70's," said Dana Friedman, co-president of the Families and Work Institute, "where problems start arising."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert W. Crispin turned down a job as one of the top three executives at a West Coast company to stay close to his ailing father-in-law. (Wade Spees for The New York Times) (pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (61%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (61%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (61%); PENDLETON JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (53%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WEST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; AGED; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL EMPLOYMENT (95%); FAMILY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); AGING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RELOCATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H ROBERT W CRISPIN (87%); JOHN F JOHNSON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



11 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Abusing the Nation's Children

 BODY:
The death in New York City of 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo, allegedly at the hands of her mother, has focused national attention on an issue that, too often, is pushed to the sidelines. Congress, in particular, should be mindful of Elisa's fate as it moves to weaken programs that are designed to protect the nation's most vulnerable children -- victims of abuse and neglect.
Child abuse is hardly a new phenomenon. It burst onto the national consciousness in the late 1960's and early 1970's when a number of books and studies about battered children appeared. These were not tales of occasional maltreatment, but prolonged patterns of physical and sexual abuse. Studies also made it clear that child abuse and other forms of family violence were linked to alcohol, drug abuse and economic devastation. 
 Doctors, teachers and neighbors have been enlisted in the effort to look for and report abuse cases. But it falls mainly to the child welfare system, a patchwork of programs usually run by states and counties, to protect abused and neglected children and offer services to troubled families where children are at risk. The system also helps families who take responsibility for neglected and abandoned children through foster care or adoption.
In 1994, there were 3.1 million reports of child abuse and neglect, of which 1 million were substantiated. That year, 1,300 child abuse victims died.
As early as 1961, the Federal Government helped pay for foster care and adoption services for abused and neglected children who had to be removed from their homes. Particularly since 1980, Washington has also tried to impose minimal standards on states receiving Federal funds for child welfare programs. The standards require states to provide written plans for each child, with recommended services and timetables to move children into or out of foster care, help them return to their families or make them eligible for adoption.
For an array of child welfare programs, from child protection to family preservation, the Federal Government spent $4.8 billion in 1995. The states, collectively, spent about the same amount.
There is, generally, some correlation between spending resources and quality of child welfare services. While it is impossible to prevent all child abuse fatalities, states can offer children more protection when they have sufficient numbers of well-trained caseworkers.
In addition, many states are trying to put more resources into family support and family preservation programs and are beefing up community-based services, like drug treatment programs. Some improvements have resulted from legal challenges. Currently, 21 states are under court order or operating under consent decrees after failing to protect children adequately or provide services to families.
That situation is likely to get worse as Congress seeks to collapse a number of child welfare programs into a block grant for each state, eliminating Federal standards and reducing overall funding by perhaps $4.5 billion over seven years.
The reductions Washington wants to impose are likely to ripple through the social welfare system, hampering child abuse prevention efforts. That hardly seems the right response to the tragedy of Elisa and other young victims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; EDITORIALS; CHILD ABUSE CHILD ABUSE (94%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); ADOPTION (89%); FOSTER CARE (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); ADOPTION SERVICES (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); DRUG POLICY (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (68%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (60%); 

PERSON: IZQUIERDO, ELISA ELISA IZQUIERDO (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



12 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: The Progress of Peace

 BODY:
Granted, the structure of peace is rickety and various cease-fires could burst apart at any moment. It must be agreed as well that wars could explode overnight in countries ostensibly at peace. Nevertheless, something wonderful happened in 1995: the year ended with fewer guns being fired and fewer people being killed as conflicts long deemed intractable yielded to diplomacy. From the Caribbean to the Balkans, from southern Africa and the Middle East to the Irish Sea, the dream of Peace on Earth has circled the globe.
For the first time in five years, Sarajevans can cross the street without fear of sniper bullets. Belfast marked a second peaceful Christmas after three decades of strife. For the first time since its birth in 1948, Israel is formally at peace with the Palestinian people, Jordan and Egypt, and talks are under way with Syria. 
 Weariness with unremitting tension and periodic blood baths among civilians have nudged peacemakers to the table. Also important was a yearning for material betterment, which proved a potent ally for peacemakers, especially among Arab peoples who seemed to be falling increasingly behind. In the former Yugoslavia, the need to rebuild shattered economies helped drive warring parties to the negotiating table.
Initially, the end of the cold war gave fresh life to dormant separatist movements. But once America emerged as sole superpower and Moscow ceased to be its global rival, dictators and guerrillas alike lost their old leverage and had to deal with each other, as in southern Africa.
Still, the triggering catalyst in 1995 was American leadership. The Bosnian accord was forged in Ohio, the peace talks in Northern Ireland were kept alive with help from President Clinton, and the Middle East breakthrough was in major part the result of determined American diplomatic efforts.
Mr. Clinton was initially reluctant to assume the risks of foreign policy leadership. A Somalia peacekeeping mission, launched by George Bush, blew apart. Americans were deeply divided about how to promote democracy in Haiti and peace in the former Yugoslavia. The reckoning is not yet final, but the worst fears about Washington's intervention in Haiti did not materialize.
Elsewhere in the Caribbean, El Salvador and Nicaragua remain at peace as left and right manage to compete within a still-shaky democratic framework. In Guatemala, scene of some of the worst massacres, peace talks are under way between Marxist guerrillas and the Government. Remarkably, for the first time since the early 1950's, there are no civil wars or insurgencies around the Caribbean, with the cruel exception of Colombia.
Asia is less fortunate. Against all reason, fighting continues in Afghanistan, and its capital, Kabul, is reduced to rubble. Not even a hint of compromise is evident in rebellious Kashmir, India's most unwilling state, and Tamil extremists have rebuffed overtures from a new Sri Lankan Government. Cambodia is nominally at peace, but a United Nations settlement has yet to sink roots. Turkey continues its scorched-earth drive against Kurdish rebels, and truces rather than real settlements mute conflicts in Georgia and Chechnya.
In Africa, a new President in Algeria has opened the way to peace talks with Islamic militants, and civil wars in Mozambique and Angola are yielding to pragmatic diplomacy. But in the Sudan, Africa's longest war resists mediation, and ethnic strife continues to menace Rwanda and Burundi.
The progress of peace in 1995 confirms that even the oldest, angriest conflicts are amenable to energetic diplomacy. May 1996 be as encouraging.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (93%); SERBIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); HAITI (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SOMALIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); EARTH (78%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; NORTHERN IRELAND; YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (93%); SERBIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); HAITI (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SOMALIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); SYRIA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); EARTH (78%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WAR AND REVOLUTION; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



13 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Ballet in the Big Apple

 BODY:
At Lincoln Center during the holidays children and their families crowded the New York State Theater for a look at "The Nutcracker," and an art form that was born over 500 years ago at the court festivals of the Italian Renaissance. For them and for people ranging from Henry VIII to Louis XIV to members of Congress who in 1842 forced a recess because they were all off seeing ballerina Fanny Ellsler, everything is beautiful at the ballet.
For centuries ballet has flourished in some of the world's great cities, and nowhere more than in the New York of the last 50 years. This, after all, was where George Balanchine began his school and his company, shaped several generations of dancers and inspired a cadre of choreographers. New York, too, is what spawned the new ballet companies that are thriving all over the United States. 
 New York's three major ballet companies, however, are in varying degrees of health today. The glory days of the Iron Curtain mystique and defectors like Nureyev, Baryshnikov and Godunov, dancers as famous for their glamour as their artistry, are past. Balanchine, a colossus, is gone. Still, it is his New York City Ballet that is the healthiest. It has its own home, a long list of subscribers, major foundation money and a cash cow in "Nutcracker." Even so, public funding is down, the interest in repertory in steadily declining and the Sunday night performances have been cut.
"We're in a much more competitive marketplace, and the performing arts will have to do more than serve cappuccino at intermission," the company's director of marketing, Chris Ramsay, said.
To Mr. Ramsay, marketing is the key, much of it aimed at Baby Boomers, whom Mr. Ramsay described as not notably philanthropic and not much attuned to classical dance. Also, because anyone who sees ballet in childhood tends to be stuck on it for life, the company is spending $500,000 to perform for youngsters and their parents in the outer boroughs and subsidize some performances.
American Ballet Theater has lost about 70 percent of its public funding. At the same time costs keep rising. "Those cultural groups that are going to thrive," said Michael M. Kaiser, its new executive director, "are those that are going to get people excited about them. All year round you've got to keep trying to be a presence."
Dance Theater of Harlem is truly ailing. It has lost more than half its public funding, has had to downsize the number of dancers and administrative staff and cannot afford a New York season this year. "We took some very drastic steps," said Arthur Mitchell, its co-founder and artistic director, "but we finished the fiscal year in the black and I'm very proud of that."
Life might be simpler if the company had its own theater. But it already has the young, racially and economically mixed audience that the two other ballet companies are hoping for, Mr. Mitchell said.
Money is important for these companies, not only for sustenance but for risk taking. But so is high visibility, powerful institutional identities and an influx of new talent, choreographers in particular. Buy a ticket to the ballet in some cities and you are buying into the only game in town. But there are hundreds of games in New York on any given night. If New York's ballet companies are to remain the dazzling part of New York's cultural life they are, they have to turn a floodlight on themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY BALLET; DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM; AMERICAN BALLET THEATER NEW YORK CITY BALLET (93%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY BALLET; DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM; AMERICAN BALLET THEATER AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; EDITORIALS; FINANCES BALLET (94%); DANCE COMPANIES (92%); DANCE (91%); THEATER (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DANCERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); CHARITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE BALANCHINE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



14 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Marx And Gingrich

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

 BODY:
Among the memorable documents of the year just ended was a letter from Vaclav Havel, the Czech President. He sent it in October to an international environmental conference.
"I come from a country where forests are dying," Havel wrote, "where rivers look like sewers and where in some places the citizens are sometimes recommended not to open their windows. . . . 
 "When I think about what has caused these frightening conditions and when each day I encounter the barriers that make any quick improvement impossible, again and again I have to conclude that the root causes of these conditions are neither technical nor economic but are philosophical in nature.
"In my view, Marxist ideology and the Communist style of rule reflect an extreme and threatening culmination of arrogance of new age human beings who enthroned themselves as lords of all nature and of all the world. . . ."
After the year 1995, Americans know that it is not only ideologues of the left who in their arrogance destroy nature. As Communist rulers poisoned the land and air and water of the Soviet Union and its satellites, so our new class of right-wing zealots would ravage America.
The Republican radicals in Congress have made it a priority to undo the environmental safeguards built up in legislation and regulations over the years beginning with the Nixon Presidency. An unannounced priority: Newt Gingrich said nothing about ending the protection of clean air and water until he had won power in November 1994.
Right now, as the Republican leaders and President Clinton negotiate about the budget, severe restrictions on environmental programs are taking effect. It is not clear how much of the slashing, if any, a budget compromise may undo.
The Environmental Protection Agency has cut way back, for example, on inspections of possible discharges of sewage and pollutants into rivers used for drinking water. The deterrent effect of enforcement is in danger.
The E.P.A. appropriation voted by Congress would cut its funds by nearly a quarter from this year's budget. President Clinton vetoed that bill, but officials fear the final figure will still be a drastic cut -- forcing large-scale dismissals of E.P.A. employees and reductions in aid to states for sewage treatment and clean water installations.
It is not only a question of money. Congressional Republicans have written into legislation orders to stop listing further endangered species, to allow more logging in the Tongass National Forest in Alaska and to remove or restrict many other protective measures.
The assault on environmental protection has aroused a significant public backlash as Americans have grasped what Speaker Gingrich and his colleagues are doing. In response to the unease, G.O.P. leaders have tried to disguise the character of their environmental bills. A small but illuminating example is the work of Senator Christopher Bond of Missouri, who steered through Congress the bill slashing E.P.A. funds.
Two sentences in that bill would forbid the E.P.A. to veto, as destructive of wetlands, any project approved by the Army Corps of Engineers. The E.P.A. has that power now and has used it to stop such things as a huge highway around Nashua, N.H.
When the new provision was criticized, Senator Bond protested in a letter to The New York Times that he was only trying to prevent duplication of Government effort. The President, he said, governed the Army Engineers and could tell them what to do.
Could Senator Bond really expect anyone to believe that disingenuous argument? To believe that a President can tell the Army Engineers what to do, case by case? To forget that the real reason the Republicans want to reduce protection of wetlands and air and water is to increase the profits of campaign contributors?
The hypocrisy of those who would destroy is brazen, and the danger great. President Havel said it:
"The environmental desolation created by the Communist regimes is a warning for the whole of civilization today. . . . [We face] a challenge to defend ourselves against all those who despise the secrets of being, might they either be cynical business people pursuing nothing but the profits of their business or left-wing saviors who have succumbed to the drug of cheap ideological Utopias."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: E P A (89%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: E P A (89%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); AIR QUALITY (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (68%); DISMISSALS (67%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (65%); WATER QUALITY (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); KIT BOND (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



15 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Ours Not to Reason Wye

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For two days last week, at the secluded Wye plantation in Maryland, Israeli negotiators told representatives of Syria's dictator, Hafez al-Assad, of the economic wonders that peace would bring to the Middle East. The Syrians listened, offering nothing.
They do well that way. Six months ago, when Israel under the cautious Yitzak Rabin dared suggest a modest Israeli presence with electronic monitoring on the Golan Heights, the Syrians refused to talk further. 
 Now, under the eager Shimon Peres, Israeli negotiators are finessing the subject of security. The most the Israelis say at Wye about the Golan is that nothing unacceptable to the Israeli army's high command can be offered.
But through osmosis diplomacy, the impression is left that total withdrawal is exchangeable for neighborliness. Not, as with Egypt, a "cold peace" that perpetuates hostility, but an arrangement with cultural exchanges, tourism, joint business ventures, regional water sharing.
By focusing more on the quality of peace than the requirements of security, Mr. Peres hopes to create an irresistible momentum within Israeli public opinion toward giving Assad what he has long sought.
The Syrian dictator responded to these inducements by sending his team back to the table. But when told that the level of representation will determine the pace of negotiations, Assad balked: although Israel's team is now led by Uri Savir, chief of the Peres peace process, Syria pointedly kept its delegation at the level of ambassador.
Peres ardently desires a personal meeting of the two men at the top. Assad is likely to make Peres pay for that summit with an assurance of a total Golan giveaway in return for a minimum of gestures of public diplomacy.
But there's a contradiction in Syria's strategy. Peres cannot deliver the Golan to Syrian control without the expression of Israeli support in a referendum, perhaps wrapped in the coming election. To help Peres gain that support, Assad must offer concessions that will win over the skeptical majority in Israel.
Up to now, the Syrian may have deluded himself that American mediators will do most of that job of reassuring Israelis for him. The notion that U.S. troops can be permanently stationed on the Syrian-occupied Golan as a tripwire is a recurring diplomatic pipedream.
That won't happen. No American President could place soldiers in a potential crossfire without a guarantee from Israel never to launch a pre-emptive strike without American permission. And Israel could never give up that degree of sovereignty on a matter of survival.
How can Assad take advantage of the window of opportunity that Peres is offering to regain all the heights? The answer, which would be met with hosannas in the U.S. and Israel, is to close the Damascus headquarters of terrorists and global drug dealers, while curtailing the power of Iran's Hezbollah in the part of Lebanon patrolled by 30,000 Syrian troops.
Even an Assad feint in that non-pro-terrorist direction to Warren Christopher on Jan. 15 would be cause for Peres to offer to abandon the Golan, triggering a trilateral summit with President Clinton in Damascus in late spring and an election referendum amidst euphoria in the fall.
My sources say there's a 50-50 chance Assad will make that feint; in a couple of years, once in control of the high ground, he could manipulate the quality of the peace. My gut feeling is that Peres, in his haste to make history, is trading tangible strategic position for hard-to-verify hopes.
But that's for Israelis to judge. Two members of David Levy's splinter party have rejoined Likud; the General who had the northern command, Yitzak Mordechay, will lead the charge against any Golan goodbye; opinion polls are moving back toward pre-assassination levels, and Peres has twice demonstrated his talent for losing elections.
Dictator Assad -- destroyer of Hama, ally of Iran, conqueror of Lebanon, protector of terrorism -- has earned the world's distrust. Let the pressure be on him to slowly, steadily earn its trust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; SYRIA (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ARMIES (71%); REFERENDUMS (62%); TERRORISM (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; PERES, SHIMON (PRIME MIN); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) SHIMON PERES (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



16 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Final Round of Tax Cut

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
It is time to ring in the third and final phase of the tax cut that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman promised when she ran for office.
Starting today, the state income tax rate will be 30 percent lower than it was in 1993 for families with up to $80,000 in taxable income and individuals with up to $40,000. For those who earn more, the cuts are smaller; for example, the reduction totals 9 percent for families whose income is over $150,000. 
 "These tax cuts will put $1.2 billion back into the economy in 1996," the Governor said in a prepared statement. Of course, the cuts also mean the state government will have to make do with less; when the Governor gets back from vacation, she will face the task of figuring out how to make ends meet in her next budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



17 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
More Jobs in Mercer County

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

DATELINE: EAST WINDSOR

 BODY:
Again and again last year, Mercer County was rocked by announcements of job cuts by big employers. But at year's end, the county had actually gained jobs, according to the County Executive, Robert D. Prunetti. 
 That is because several small high-tech firms moved to the county, providing new jobs; meanwhile, the announced cuts -- more than 6,000 of the county's 199,000 jobs -- are still being phased in. The county has won an $800,000 Federal grant to retrain workers being let go by the Lockheed Martin Corporation and the Mobil Corporation, as well as three big Trenton employers: a Carter-Wallace condom factory, Hill Refrigeration and state government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOBIL CORP (71%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; MERCER COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (86%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (85%); GRANTS & GIFTS (83%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO; PRUNETTI, BOB (COUNTY EXEC) ROBERT D PRUNETTI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



18 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Seeking New Uses for Base

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

DATELINE: BAYONNE

 BODY:
Bayonne has a goal and a deadline, too: finding the best way to deal with the closing of the the Military Ocean Terminal, scheduled for Sept. 28, 2001.
Since officials got the order sealing the base's fate last fall, 20 people -- one-fifth of the base's uniformed military personnel -- have been transferred, according to Scott Leferte, the base transition coordinator. It is not clear what will become of the 1,650 civilian employees of the Defense Department and 326 other workers, he said. 
 A panel of local officials and bankers has been formed to look into new uses for the site. On Jan. 25, it will hear a presentation from the U.S.S. New Jersey Battleship Commission, which wants to bring the venerable ship back to the East Coast from Bremerton, Wash. SUSAN JO KELLER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: US S NEW JERSEY BATTLESHIP COMMISSION (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US S NEW JERSEY BATTLESHIP COMMISSION (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAYONNE (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MILITARY OCEAN TERMINAL (BAYONNE, NJ); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (88%); NAVAL VESSELS (88%); MILITARY BASES (88%); TRENDS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO SCOTT LEFERTE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996



19 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
With U.S. Flat, Where Will the Money Go?

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
AMERICAN investors, pack your moneybags.
After a year in which United States stock and bond markets outperformed nearly every market around the globe, many market strategists and investment managers are predicting that 1996 will bring better opportunities abroad. 
 Forget those 40 percent gains in Nasdaq stocks. Turn your back on 30 percent returns in long-term Government bonds. And disconnect from the Internet. Over the next 12 months, the gains racked up in this country's raging bull markets are unlikely to be repeated, experts say.
To be sure, some sectors of the American markets hold promise in 1996. Wall Street still expects further interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, and if they come, makers of heavy machinery and other capital goods are likely to benefit. The Magellan fund, the country's largest mutual fund, recently added to its stakes in two concerns that make floor coverings: Armstrong World Industries and Shaw Industries.
Whether individual investors can similarly lower their sights is uncertain because some markets they are being told to look at -- most notably Japan -- have been among the worst performers the last three years.
But the tremendous gains most investors have experienced over the last year make this an appropriate time to revamp portfolios with an eye on the road ahead.
"One of the classic traps that investors fall into is thinking, 'Because this is doing so well for me, I'm going to keep buying more of it,' " said Jon S. Fossel, chairman of Oppenheimer Management.
Investors who continue to pour fresh cash into last year's big winners -- technology stocks or big American companies -- are making that mistake, Mr. Fossel said. He predicts that in the first six months of 1996, the Dow Jones industrial average is likely to undergo a downward move of 10 percent or more.
AS head of a company that manages $35 billion of mostly domestic mutual funds, Mr. Fossel is not predicting that the American economy is about to go into a free fall. But, he said, a slowdown is more likely than many people believe, and disappointing growth in the economy generally and in corporate profits in particular could upset American equity markets.
Robert Haddick, manager of the $488 million Fremont Global fund, a mutual fund that currently has about two-thirds of its assets spread outside the United States, agrees. "For the first half of the year, we're not going to be adding to our U.S. equity position because I think we'll see better results outside," he said.
And while both men expect short-term interest rates in the United States to fall, they are not too optimistic about the potential of such a cut to fuel either the economy or further rallies in United States equity markets. "Look at Japan," Mr. Fossel said. "They have cut interest rates so far that they are negative in real terms, but that hasn't turned their economy around."
Which is why Japan is at the top of many forecasters' lists of the most attractive global markets the next few years. "The Bank of Japan has engineered the same formula to get out of a crisis and increase liquidity that we were using in this country four to five years ago," said Charles E. Cain, president of Cain Asset Management in New York.
Japanese banks have been able to borrow money from the central bank at extremely low interest rates and invest it in long-term securities, earning a spread of 3 percent or more, Mr. Cain explained. That has earned the banks some criticism for not helping to rebuild the economy. "But what they are really doing is improving their balance sheets," he said.
"Japan Inc. is the banks," said Henry A. Frantzen, executive vice president of Federated Global Research, part of the Federated Investors family of mutual funds. Improvements in the banks' financial situation led Mr. Frantzen to increase the weighting of Japan in Federated's global mutual funds to nearly 40 percent from 18 percent.
Jeffrey Russell, international markets specialist at Smith Barney, is somewhat cool toward Japan but likes the emerging market economies of the Pacific Rim. Some of those markets, he acknowledges, have burned American investors in recent years. But now, he said, "virtually every market there presents the opportunity of double-digit earnings growth."
Mr. Fossel of Oppenheimer Management particularly likes the debt markets of the emerging economy nations. If interest rates in the United States fall, as he expects, rates will similarly come down around the world. Emerging markets, he said, with high consumer demand and young populations, "stand to benefit most from cheaper capital and improved terms of trade."
While some Asian countries probably have a better outlook than others, predicting which markets will perform best is more difficult. Therefore, investors might be better off owning a mutual fund that specializes in the region rather than individual country funds.
IN Europe, on the other hand, certain countries' prospects are easier to identify, and investors can invest in them either through mutual funds or through stocks that are traded both in that country and in the United States. For instance, the American depository receipts of the Nokia Corporation, Finland's largest publicly held company, which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, are sometimes as affected by broad moves in the Helsinki market as by the company's own prospects.
Mr. Russell of Smith Barney is most optimistic about the prospects for Europe, where the economic cycle is one to two years behind that of the United States, he said.
Big, high-cost European companies like Philips, Fiat and Olivetti are now undergoing the kinds of cutbacks and overhauls that American companies have already achieved, which should lead to greater profit improvements, Mr. Russell said. And he finds the greatest overall prospects in Sweden and Ireland, countries that are attracting foreign investment with low wages.
There is a general lack of enthusiasm for Latin America, where troubled economies continue to haunt investment markets. But this lack of enthusiasm might make regions like Latin America a good place to shop for bargains.
At the least, said R. Stephen Doyle, chairman of Montgomery Asset Management, emerging markets are attracting some smart investors -- particularly pension funds. He said that more than 200 American pension funds have started searches in recent months for specialists in emerging markets. For the smart money, the point is to get there before the crowd.
But trying to guess where the crowd will go can be a dangerous game for individual investors. Even after a spectacular year like the one just ended in American markets, individuals who are long-term investors should not be too quick to try and find the next hot spot, said John C. Bogle, chairman of the Vanguard Group.
"If you feel a really compelling need to reduce your risk exposure" to United States stocks, Mr. Bogle said, "don't do it by more than 15 percent." That is, if 65 percent of your assets are in the stocks, do not lower the allocation below 50 percent.
"Even if stocks are going to go down, and you get out at the right time," he said. "You still have to get back in at the right time."


GRAPHIC: In a remarkable year of records and nilestones, no sector was more notable than technology. But the question lingers: where next?
Graphs: "
 Graph tracks preformance of the Pacific Stock Exchange index of the top 100 techology companies in the U.S. and the relative performance of the S. & P. 500 index throughout 1995.
 
"Ready to Take Off" tracks the Nikkei 225 stock index, weekly closes since 1990.
 
"Promising In 1996?"
 After a sharp climb in the first half of 1995, shares of industrial equipment makers stalled. Some analysts think interest rate cuts in the first half of 1996 could spur growth again.
 Graph tracks the S. & P. capital goods composite indes, weekly, since Dec. 30, 1994.
 
Source: Datastream 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AWI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES INC (56%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FORECASTS STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: JON S FOSSEL (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



20 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
The Welfare State Is Alive and Welcome in Western Europe

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
FOR years, a favorite pastime of economists has been prophesying the demise of Europe's comfortable welfare state.
Social payments, wages and subsidies are all too high in Europe. Labor laws are inflexible, and Europeans take too much vacation and pay too much in taxes. Technology is behind that of the United States and Japan. Everything is too expensive. And unemployment rates here are twice that of the United States. 
 Europe, according to the doomsayers, has become less and less competitive, can no longer afford such spreading of the wealth and is heading for a slow collapse.
If there is hope, it is because Europeans are beginning to realize that they have to lower taxes, cut spending, privatize everything and withdraw much of the safety net.
But if anything has served to underscore that Europe is not about to change its cradle-to-grave welfare state in fundamental ways, it was the three weeks of labor protests that paralyzed parts of France late last year and forced Prime Minister Alain Juppe to back down on a series of policies aimed at reining in France's exploding budget deficit.
While the public groused at the traffic jams in Paris caused by the shutdown of the nation's rail system, there was little real widespread opposition to the strikers. Logic demanded that if Mr. Juppe could take away the transit workers' acquired rights, he could take away those of others as well.
"There is always this messianic thinking that once you reach the promised land of free markets, everything will be all right," said David McWilliams, senior European economist for UBS Global Research in London.
He added, "Well, that is just not happening here. There is no broad consensus to change the system. The voters are simply against it."
But the system is creaking, and there are attempts besides those of Mr. Juppe to impose change. Prime Minister Lamberto Dini of Italy pushed through welfare changes last year aimed at saving $60 billion through 2005. Germany sharply cut its $7 billion in coal subsidies, and Sweden made the first major cuts in its social safety net in decades.
What is happening in Europe is a modest belt-tightening by politicians who want their countries to be part of a single European currency, which is scheduled to come into being at the beginning of the next century. Major overhauls -- passing through real economic pain to generate a renewed private sector that will create jobs -- are not on the horizon.
One reason is that many of Europe's leaders are weak and govern only by slim parliamentary majorities.
Another reason the overhaul of the welfare state will not become a major issue soon is that Europe's economy is markedly slowing. After predictions in early 1995 that export-led growth would turn into growth led by consumer spending, the Continent's economy appears to be softening, with the possibility that some countries, like France, could see negative growth less than 12 months from now.
"Weakness is more entrenched than expected," said Paul Horne, senior international economist at Smith Barney in Paris. "Our forecast is for soggy growth at best till mid 1996."
This will put European governments in a big bind, particularly if they are trying to cut their budget deficits to 3 percent of gross domestic product by the end of 1997 to qualify for membership in the Euro, the new single European currency.
Slow growth will mean lower tax revenues and bigger deficits. And cutting government spending in a sizable way will be nearly impossible since unemployment is already growing.
One solution is to abandon serious budget cutting. But economists doubt that would be acceptable since the markets would punish the country with higher interest rates and a weaker currency, making already anemic growth even slower. That leaves few policy initiatives besides raising taxes. Mr. Juppe has already raised France's value-added tax by two points, to 20.6 percent. A similar move is being considered in Germany.
All the West European economies have been helped by last month's interest-rate cuts by the Bundesbank. The discount rate at the German central bank, which effectively dictates monetary policy for all of Europe, is at 3 percent, its lowest in more than seven years. D. Sykes Wilford, managing director of Bankers Trust Private Advisory Services, predicts the Bundesbank will cut rates even further in 1996.
So Europe might be able to muddle along, cautiously preserving what it has, not risking significant change.
And for many here, that is fine. After two world wars, hyperinflation and a cold war, Europe tends to fight any attempt to abandon the systems it has put in place to insure social, political and economic stability.
"The approach in Europe is totally different than in the United States," said Alfons Verplaetsa, governor of the National Bank of Belgium. "Europeans want to be sure that there is no adventure in the future. They have had too much of that. They want stability and orthodoxy. They will compromise and compromise to get it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); SWEDEN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: ;EUROPEAN UNION WESTERN EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; ITALY; SPAIN; SWEDEN; EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); SWEDEN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX; CURRENCY ; CURRENCY; SURVEYS AND SERIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); STRIKES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); POLITICS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); EURO (64%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ALAIN JUPPE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



21 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
Modest Forecasts for U.S. Shift Focus Overseas

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, almost no one expected 1995 would turn into one of the biggest boom years for the American economy since the end of World War II.
It took the country by surprise: a huge surge in productivity, an even larger run-up in the stock and bond markets, a tidal wave of exports. American manufacturers, who only a few years ago were symbols of industrial decline from Germany to Japan, suddenly regained an aura of success unseen for 30 years. 
 Not surprisingly, many investors, corporate strategists and executives, have come to the same conclusion: it cannot last.
That conviction has propelled one of the odd paradoxes of the mid-90's boom. When the nation's capital seems to be growing more isolationist -- contributing less to the United Nations and the World Bank, cutting back on the government agencies pressing foreign nations to buy more American goods -- corporate America is finally investing abroad with a vengeance.
In the 1980's and early 1990's, companies talked about globalization but often had to be dragged abroad. A General Motors executive in Asia once spent an hour explaining to a reporter why it made no sense for G.M. to invest in Thailand, even though its auto market was growing at an annual rate of 130 percent.
Now American investment abroad is surging. By some estimates, American companies invested roughly $150 billion abroad between 1993 and 1995, triple what they invested outside the United States in the late 1980's.
Estimates of modest growth are behind the change. The American economy is expected to expand no faster than 2.5 percent a year through 2002, assuming no big recession intervenes. That is not the kind of number that makes a corporate strategist think about spending too much time at home.
The problem is where to go. Japan's recession seems endless; 1995 was supposed to be the year of recovery.
"It's not going to be a pretty year," said Kenneth S. Courtis, chief economist for Deutschbank Group (Asia). "And you can see it in the speed with which the Japanese themselves are headed out: more money into China and Southeast Asia."
Europe is not much better. The European Union seems mired over monetary union. Britain, traditionally the favorite foreign investment for American companies, has seen the inflow of direct investment fall by half, to lows it has not seen since 1987.
And then there is Latin America, still shaking off the Mexican shock of a year ago. In many countries throughout the region, starting with Chile, the markets look promising, and American business is starting to stir again. But Mexico made everyone a bit gun shy, and Brazil and Argentina are still feeling the effects.
That leaves the obvious: East Asia, especially China. Its growth is still phenomenal, upward of 7 or 8 percent a year, and some weeks it is hard to book hotel rooms in Shanghai with all the American, Japanese, Taiwanese and European executives muscling each other aside to strike deals.
But in the last year a good deal of the gloss has come off investing in China. Corruption has run rampant, and China's relationship with Washington was on a slide all last year. Many more arguments are expected this year over the treatment of dissidents and the piracy of American software, music and movies.
A recent survey of top executives by the Control Risks Group, a London-based consulting firm, concluded that bribery was skyrocketing in China's provinces and that for many companies "competitive pressures may leave them with no choice but to conform." No surprise there; the other big economic powers in China, including Japan and Germany, have no equivalent of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the law that makes it illegal for American businesses to bribe officials abroad.
And then there is China's increasing skill at dangling the prospect of huge aircraft purchases from Boeing or a big deal for General Motors just as Washington is considering how to respond to the latest imprisonment of a dissident.
Such problems have left Washington in disarray, lurching from crisis to crisis, constantly weighing commercial costs against diplomatic interests. It is an ad hoc equation, rarely explained in terms of consistent principles. Often, Washington is alone. No country has joined the Administration's ban on direct investment in Iran's oil industry, for example, and a French company, Total S.A., won a huge deal that Conoco Inc., a Du Pont company, was forced to give up.
This leaves executives angry that their deals are entangled in foreign policy disputes over which they have no control.
Officials in other nations charge that even when it comes to business disputes, America is abandoning international trading rules. In their view, a mercantilist American administration would prefer to "manage trade" with Japan and other big trading partners one on one, reserving for itself a guaranteed share of their markets, rather than leave disputes over cars or semiconductors to international bodies like the new World Trade Organization.
Many Americans agree. In a recent article in Foreign Affairs, the former Under Secretary of Commerce for International Affairs, Jeffrey E. Garten, who left the Administration a few months ago, delivered a stinging critique of America's go-it-alone approach.
But the tide in Washington is not with Mr. Garten. While American business is saying it needs Government support abroad more than ever before -- akin to what Germany and Japan regularly provide for their businesses -- the Republican majority in Congress is going in the other direction.
And conservative Republican candidates for President, most notably Patrick J. Buchanan, see involvement in international groups like the W.T.O. as a surrender of national sovereignty.
If Mr. Buchanan does well in the primaries, it could make the question of America's business role abroad a much more potent one in the political world. But no matter how the election year turns out, the broad movement of the 1990's seems clear: there is no turning back for American business on its new focus on emerging markets abroad. Whatever the risks, whatever the political complications, there are few other places to grow. Just ask the American car companies: over the last few months, they have suddenly become interested in Thailand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE; CORPORATIONS; FORECASTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX; PRODUCTIVITY; STOCKS AND BONDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; SURVEYS AND SERIES FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); BONDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EURO (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



22 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: TECHNOLOGY AND MEDIA;
Telecommuting Options Are Gaining Sophistication

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
TWICE a week, Ralph Silvestro skips the two-and-a-half-hour train ride from his home in Martinsburg, W. Va., to his office at the General Services Administration in downtown Washington.
Instead, he drives for about half an hour over rural roads to a building in Hagerstown, Md., about 50 miles northwest of the capital, where he and other Government workers do their jobs without the burden of a long trip fighting traffic. "With the office in Hagerstown, I can be home by 5 P.M.," Mr. Silvestro said. "It's nice to be able to go out to an early dinner now and then." 
 The Hagerstown office is one of a network of satellite offices the G.S.A. has established in the Washington suburbs for its employees and those of other Federal agencies. The use of such offices is one of the newer approaches to telecommuting; the typical telecommuter is an individual who works one or more days a week from home.
But not all home offices are equipped with high-capacity telephone lines, laser printers, copiers and desktop video cameras that can be used economically on a shared basis in a satellite office.
"These centers offer an alternative to working at home," said Faith Wohl, director of G.S.A.'s office of workplace initiatives. "For example, they are a good place to meet customers. You would not want to meet customers at home."
For the agency, which is the Federal Government's landlord, the offices are intended to improve the productivity of employees by shortening long, tiring commutes and reducing automotive traffic and the air pollution they cause. The agency is also looking to provide some guidance for the private sector. "Too often we think of work as a location rather than a process," Ms. Wohl said. "Today technology allows us to divorce the location from the process."
Ms. Wohl's enthusiasm notwithstanding, telecommuting programs appear to be at a crossroads for many workers. A survey of 1,200 households by the New York polling firm of FIND/SVP found that the number of telecommuters declined to 8.1 million in September 1995, compared with 9.1 million the previous year.
The company said the data suggested that many workers were voluntarily giving up the telecommuting arrangement out of concern for the stability of their jobs. "We believe corporate downsizing and outsourcing has made it less attractive for full-time employees to request home telecommuting arrangements out of fear of losing in-office visibility," the company said.
At the same time, the strongest Government incentive to reduce driving -- promoting telecommuting as a result -- has been weakened. Congress has voted to modify a provision of the 1990 Clean Air amendments that required employers with more than 100 employees to reduce commuting trips by 25 percent. The provision is now voluntary for the states, and California has already repealed it.
But even as Government pressure eases, some companies are encouraging telecommuting because they have found it improves productivity as well as morale.
Not surprisingly, high technology companies are quicker to adopt new ways than more traditional ones. It also helps that information-processing work is more easily dispersed than hands-on factory jobs.
"We view telecommuting as part of a strategy to enhance employee productivity," said David Abrahamson, a spokesman for the 3Com Corp. in Santa Clara, Calif. He said many Silicon Valley companies were developing programs to cope with the congested roads in the area.
One worker who appreciates the company's policy is Tess Santos, whose 65-mile commute from her home in Vallejo, Calif., kept her on the road for up to two hours each way. Now she does her job as a property accountant at home two days a week using a computer, modem and digital telephone line provided by the company. "In the past, I worked 10 A.M. to 7 P.M. to avoid the traffic, but I got home too late for parent conferences at school and P.T.A. meetings." Now, she said, she is much more involved in the lives of her 9- and 11-year-old daughters.
There are many approaches to telecommuting. But the practice seems to be spreading increasingly to jobs that were formerly fixed in place.
At the moment, the schedule of Mr. Silvestro of the General Services Administration is fixed: Monday and Wednesday in Hagerstown, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday in Washington. He is hoping to increase that to three days in the regional office.
The problem, he said, is that having workers at remote locations is new to most executives and many fear their control of organizations will be eroded by the practice. "They feel better if they can see you," he said.
Alex Dickinson is a two-day-a-week telecommuter, as well, working from his loft in the TriBeCa section of lower Manhattan. His office at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, N.J., is almost 60 miles away. With a digital telephone line and a small video camera atop his computer display, Mr. Dickinson can have face to face meetings with his colleagues in New Jersey or at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.
Mr. Dickinson, who does research on computer chips and video compression technology, said the chief advantage of working from home, aside from the time saved by not commuting, was that there were fewer distractions. "I believe I'm more effective at home and, with call forwarding, people are unaware of where I am," he said.
But there are limits. "If I was to telecommute more than three days a week, I'd feel disconnected," he said. "I have a supervisory job, and it would become a complex job supervising people if I'm out all the time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Dickinson telecommutes twice weekly from Manhattan to his job in New Jersey. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUIDELINE INC (52%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (91%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (91%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SURVEYS AND SERIES TELECOMMUTING (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); PHOTOCOPIERS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); AIR QUALITY (68%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (66%); AIR POLLUTION (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (61%); 

PERSON: RALPH SILVESTRO (69%); FAITH WOHL (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



23 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY
The Economic Consensus on 1996: The Year of the Big Yawn;
Outlooks at the Edge: From Bust . . .

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Not only is John Mueller one of the few economists predicting recession in 1996, he has been arguing for a long time that the new year will be a downturn, a Presidential election notwithstanding. No worse than 1990-1991, but a recession this year will still be the real, painful thing.
Causing this recession, the signs of which he sees emerging in various reports of deceleration, is the delayed effects of Federal Reserve policy that doubled short-term interest rates between February 1994 and February 1995. 
 "Every big rise in the funds rate is followed about two years later by recession," says Mr. Mueller, an economist with Lehrman Bell Mueller Cannon, a consulting and money management firm based in Arlington, Va. He says most analysts err in assuming Fed action is felt much sooner, within several months, and is then dissipated.
He contends that the immediate effect of interest-rate increases is to speed the economy, not to slow it, as people rush to borrow before rates climb further. This, he says, helped produced the 1994 boom.
Now, with the economy cooling and rates on the way down, the situation is reversed. "The only question is when, and to what rate, the Fed's going to cut," Mr. Mueller says. And this is causing people to put off action to try to catch the lowest rate.
"In 1996, we'll get this deferral effect," he says. "That's going to deepen the recession, which was really baked in the cake by the rate hikes two years earlier."
But just as mortgage rates tend to reverse course suddenly as dilatory home buyers panic at the first uptick in rates, the economy will snap back starting probably in late 1997 with "the real recovery beginning in 1998," Mr. Mueller predicts.
Mr. Mueller worked 10 years for Jack Kemp, a former Republican Congressman from New York and Housing and Urban Development Secretary as well as a prominent advocate of supply-side economics.
But while his forecast rests heavily on monetary policy, Mr. Mueller describes himself as a supply sider who happens to favor a balanced budget. Indeed, his monetary analysis itself is nontraditional in that he focuses not just on the dollars the Fed creates but on those created by foreign central banks when they intervene on world currency markets, as they did substantially last year.
"We found there was a wonderful relationship between the growth of the world dollar base and the inflation rate in the United States two years later," he says. From there, of course, he forecasts how the Fed -- and eventually the economy -- will respond. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTEREST RATES; SURVEYS AND SERIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INFLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: MUELLER, JOHN JOHN MUELLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



24 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
Sideshows Aside, Economy Is Still Key to Election

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
WHAT will turn on -- or turn off -- the voters in 1996? Bob Dole's back-and-forth position on abortion? Bill Clinton's taste for the fast lane and fast food? The Gingrich who stole Medicare?
Answer: None of the above. Again, it is the economy that matters most. The choice Americans make in Presidential elections, according to two statistical models produced by Ivy League researchers, are more directly tied to their perceived financial security than to any other factor. And strikingly, both models predict an exceptionally close contest in 1996. 
 Start with the latest from Ray Fair, an econometrician at Yale who has been using statistics to explain Presidential votes since 1978. His current model, based on election results from 1916 through 1992, is disarmingly simple. A handful of noneconomic factors do seem to matter. Incumbents have an edge and incumbent Republicans have an even greater edge. Mr. Fair also includes a "time-for-a-change" factor that costs votes for the candidate from a party in power for more than two terms.
But election results in times of peace, he suggests, usually turn on three significant economic variables:
*One is the rate of inflation during the first 15 quarters of the Presidential term. Statistically, each percentage point increase reduces the incumbent's votes by 0.83 of a percentage point.
*The second is the rate of economic growth during the previous three quarters. Each percentage point of growth averaged over the first three quarters of the election year increases the incumbent's vote by 0.65 of a percentage point.
*The third is what Mr. Fair calls the "good news" variable, which is gauged by how many times the rate of growth -- measured each quarter -- exceeds 4 percent. Indeed, every quarter that is above the threshold adds a full percentage point to the incumbent party's vote.
The equation explains past results exceptionally well, typically missing the victor's share of the two-party vote by less than 2 percentage points. Unfortunately, it missed by 3.4 percentage points in 1992 -- a result that Mr. Fair argues is linked to his necessarily crude assumption that Ross Perot took equal numbers of votes from George Bush and Mr. Clinton.
So where does that leave Mr. Clinton in 1996? Inflation will almost certainly average less than 3 percent and economic growth for the first three quarters of 1996 is forecast at 2 to 2.5 percent. But Mr. Clinton is short on "good news" -- quarters with growth exceeding 4 percent. Indeed, with just two such quarters thus far, Mr. Fair predicts that the President will receive just 49 percent of the two-party split. It would thus take at least one more strong quarter to push him over the top.
The prediction makes this election too close to call. After all, the analysis is reliable only within two percentage points, plus or minus. Still, if Mr. Fair is correct, the Democrats face an uphill fight to maintain control of the White House -- a fight that will probably be won or lost on the success of the economy next year.
Alberto Alesina of Harvard and John Londregan and Howard Rosenthal at Princeton show there is more than one way to play this statistical game. They argue that just two variables capture the noneconomic factors influencing the Presidential vote: the division of popular vote in the previous mid-term House elections, and the share of House seats won by the incumbent President's party in this same mid-term election.
The first, they suggest, captures the general popularity of the incumbent President. But the more House seats the President's party actually wins in the mid-term election, the greater the inclination of the voters to balance the impact by electing the opposition candidate.
The two effects tend to cancel each other except in times like these, when a relatively modest gain in the percentage of the House vote for the Republicans produced a switch in control of the Congress.
So what will determine the outcome of the 1996 election? Economics, of course.
In the Alesina-Londregan-Rosenthal model, the rate of economic growth in the Presidential election year has substantial sway. A 1 percentage point increase in the growth rate leads to a 1.45 percentage point increase in the two-party vote split for the incumbent.
Plugging in the same 2.5 percent growth rate for 1996 assumed by Mr. Fair, Mr. Clinton would end up with 49.97 percent of the vote.
Skeptics may take these results with a generous dollop of salt. Like the Fair model, the Alesina-Londregan-Rosenthal equation missed by a wide margin in 1992.
Still, all this suggests that the results of the 1996 election might be shaped in the marble-clad meeting rooms of the Federal Reserve. If the Fed plays its usual game of "better safe than sorry" on inflation, Mr. Clinton is in trouble. But if the Fed, which cut interest rates a modest quarter of a percentage point just before Christmas, gives a nod to growth over price stability, the Democrats may yet hold the White House.
It is often said that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is the most powerful man in America. This year, it may be true.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "It's Predictable: An Economist's View of Presidential Elections"
 Ray Fair, an econometrician at Yale University, argues that the winners of Presidential elections are generally decided by a handful of economic factors -- inflation, average growth and the "good news" of rapid growth usually associated with brisk economic recoveries. If he's right, Bill Clinton is in trouble. With the Fair model, an election is to close to call if the predicted margin of victory is less than 2 percentage points.
 Graph tracks Ray Fair's prediction and the actual percentage of votes for the Democratic Presidential candidate in each election since 1916. (Source: Ray Fair, Yale University)
 
"Clinton's Prospects"
 According to a model developed by Alberto Alesina with John Londregan and Howard Rosenthal, President Clinton's chances will improve as the economy does: the predicted vote for Clinton rises the faster the economy grows . . . and the stronger the economy, the greater the probability that Clinton will win.
 Graphs track the predicted vote and the probablility that Clinton will win in accordance with the rise in the G.D.P. through September 1996. (Source: Alesina, Londregan and Rosenthal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MODELS (SIMULATIONS); PUBLIC OPINION; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX; ELECTION ISSUES ; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); ABORTION (73%); MEDICARE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; FAIR, RAY; ALESINA, ALBERTO; LONDREGAN, JOHN; ROSENTHAL, HOWARD BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



25 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
Reaping Profits From Wall Street Run-Up

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
WALL STREET had its crop of winners this year as the stock market set new highs through the year, merger activity surged and interest rates declined.
"The people that are heavy in investment banking and mergers and acquisitions did very well in 1995," said Perrin H. Long Jr., an analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, a New York investment bank. 
 And in a year when companies rose remarkably in value -- the stock market alone is up by more than 30 percent from a year ago -- many of those who themselves sold companies, public or private, did particularly well.
In one such deal, Theodore J. Forstmann, co-founder and senior partner of Forstmann Little & Company, bought and sold Ziff-Davis Publishing, a private company, to net a profit of several hundred million dollars in less than a year.
On Nov. 9, Forstmann Little sold Ziff-Davis, a publisher of computer magazines, to the Softbank Corporation of Japan, a software distributor and computer magazine publisher, for $2.1 billion. This, less than a year after Forstmann Little had bought the company from the Ziff family for $1.4 billion. Mr. Forstmann, 55 years old, said that he had wanted to own Ziff-Davis for a long time to come, but that when Masayoshi Son, Softbank's president and chief executive, approached him with such a strong offer "we felt we had a fiduciary obligation to our investors to accept it."
Acquiring a fast-growing company like Ziff Davis, helped Forstmann reap such a profit. Forstmann also tinkered with the company's management, introducing new incentives for top managers and strengthening the company's financial management. The last 12 months, Ziff Davis also has done well from the surge of interest in the Internet, selling its magazines -- it started Internet Life in the summer -- and information products to a public that is eager to learn about this new medium.
Such rapid financial activity spelled a good year for Wall Street, where most brokerage firms reported rising profits. But it was Morgan Stanley & Company and Goldman, Sachs & Company -- with their big investment banking and mergers and acquisitions departments -- led the pack, analysts said.
The two firms advised on almost 50 percent of the $600 billion of American mergers and takeovers in the year, according to Securities Data Company of Newark. As the year closed, Morgan Stanley, however, was just maintaining a narrow lead over Goldman. Goldman, meanwhile, topped the rankings for managing initial public offerings, raising as much as $6 billion.
Analysts particularly credited Jon S. Corzine and his management team for pulling Goldman back together again after a rocky 1994, when a slew of partners left the firm. Just over a year ago, some observers even thought that Goldman might be going into decline after the sudden departure of Steven Friedman, the partnership's chairman.
Most firms did well last year, Mr. Long of Brown Brothers Harriman noted. But he cited Paine Webber Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Company as two that might have done better.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Theodore J. Forstmann, co-founder and senior partner of Forstmann Little & Company, at the airport in Morristown, N.J. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (82%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; MORGAN STANLEY & CO SOFTBANK CORP (84%); FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (82%); BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (72%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); SECURITIES DATA CO INC (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; MORGAN STANLEY & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS PUBLISHING (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (88%); BONDS (79%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER THEODORE FORSTMANN (89%); JON CORZINE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



26 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
Wall St. Takes a Shine to Fee-Based Businesses

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
ONCE considered too tame for Wall Street's gunslingers, businesses like asset management, global custody and clearing are being wooed by investment bankers with Romeo-like ardor.
And no wonder. These businesses are the industry equivalent of Valium. They are impervious to sudden drops in the Dow, increases in interest rates, rising unemployment, sinking consumer confidence and the various other uncontrollable factors that buffet the fortunes of securities firms. And they can, if properly managed, produce fees year in and year out. 
 "There's no question that tending that garden of fees makes a difference in downside performance," said Guy Moszkowski, a securities industry analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
Raymond A. Mason, chairman and president of Legg Mason Inc., noted, "The theory is that if you can't stop the ups and downs, you can certainly moderate them."
In 1994, when the securities industry suffered one of the worst drubbings in memory as interest rates skyrocketed and stock markets limped along, those firms that had been building their fee-based businesses fared better than those that had not. Merrill Lynch's earnings dropped 25 percent last year, while Salomon Brothers, a subsidiary of Salomon Inc., one of the most volatile firms on Wall Street, lost $399 million, compared with a profit of $864 million a year earlier.
Such fee-based businesses not only help smooth the ups and downs of the market, they also have fat profit margins at a time when margins in the industry are under pressure. And they require very little capital, a precious asset in an era when firms increasingly have to put their own capital at risk to reap a profit.
About 30 percent of Legg Mason's revenues come from asset management, which will account for a larger share of the firm's top line after it completes its acquisition of Bartlett & Company early this year, and its purchase in December of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s London-based asset management unit will bolster the importance of that business. "It's much more than a cushion against bad times for us," Mr. Mason said. "It accounts for close to half of our profits."
Since 1990, fees earned by Wall Street firms for managing client assets have nearly doubled, to an estimated $4.3 billion in 1995, according to the Securities Industry Association. They account for a gradually increasing share of revenues after interest expense, or net revenues, while income sources like commissions and underwriting have leveled off.
Merrill Lynch & Company, Goldman, Sachs & Company and Morgan Stanley & Company are some of the major securities firms singing the praises of such businesses, which are far afield from their traditional roles as raisers of capital for corporate America and brokers for institutional and individual investors. Just last month, Smith Barney Inc., the brokerage unit of the Travelers Group Inc., which had $92.2 billion in assets under management through Sept. 30, exhorted its brokers to raise their efforts to attract customer assets by an average of 33 percent -- or forgo a portion of their bonuses.
Analysts estimate that asset management, the most lucrative of the fee-based businesses, generates a pretax profit margin upward of 25 percent. At Dean Witter, Discover, for instance, fee-based businesses account for roughly 18 percent of revenue but almost one-third of profit, Mr. Moszkowski estimated.
Some analysts wonder, however, how deeply Wall Street's commitment runs to these new businesses. Perrin H. Long Jr., a veteran securities industry analyst at Brown Brothers, Harriman & Company, noted that most firms continued to grow more capital-intensive businesses like underwriting and trading at a faster clip than their fee-based businesses. "The brokerage business is becoming more and more cyclical, so if they really wanted to reduce volatility, they would increase assets under their management by a factor of two," he said.
Perversely, the stock market, which would be expected to reward firms for their efforts to even out volatility, often punishes securities firms. Legg Mason's stock has lagged its peer group this year, even though investors who owned its shares in 1994 fared far better than those that owned its competitors.
"Building fee revenue is a great thing for shareholders," Mr. Long said, "but the market doesn't seem to give you much credit for all your hard work."
Yet one good measure of the industry's passion is price. Firms have been paying top dollar to buy money managers, a much quicker way of expanding their asset management business than gathering assets through their brokers.
Morgan Stanley raised eyebrows last summer when it paid $350 million for Miller Anderson & Sherrerd L.L.P., a money management firm with $33 billion under its control, and in October Legg Mason paid an equally hefty $36.7 million for Bartlett, which had assets of $2.2 billion. Last month, RCM Capital Management, with about $26 million under management, was sold to Dresdner Bank for $300 million.
The rewards of fee-based businesses justify such prices, buyers say. Morgan Stanley, for instance, figures its collection of noncapital intensive businesses -- asset management, custody, clearing and mergers and acquisitions advising -- will add five to seven percentage points to its return on equity above its cost of capital, analysts said.
"If we can earn our cost of capital or slightly better in our capital-intensive businesses, that's good because it's hard to do better than that in a competitive market," said Philip N. Duff, chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley. "Then things like asset management and custody can add to that."
Going global can also help even and pad the earnings stream, and the same big firms that have demonstrated a commitment to reducing volatility through their mix of businesses are also busy establishing far-flung outposts. Last summer, Merrill stunned Wall Street with its high-priced purchase of Smith New Court, a London-based brokerage with a highly regarded European market making capability and enticing toeholds in emerging markets.
Morgan Stanley, which was criticized during most of 1994 for sticking to its plans for global expansion when other firms were bailing out of offices in Asia and curtailing activity in Eastern Europe, opened an office in Bombay and formed a joint venture with Chinese partners to put down roots in Beijing. And Goldman, Sachs has begun managing money for Nenpuku, a large Japanese public pension fund.
"If you believe that not all markets move in the same direction at the same time," said Joseph T. Willett, senior vice president and chief financial officer of Merrill. "Having business around the globe gives you a little bit of a hedge against downturns in one country."


GRAPHIC: For New York Stock Exchange firms, fees from asset management are growing and asset management is proving more dependable than underwriting, which has been folatile lately. Graphs track tracks fees from asset management from 1977 through an estimated 1995 and percent of net revenue for underwriting and asset management from 1985 through an estimated 1995. (Source: Securities Industry Association) 
Graph: "A New Focus on Fees"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); LM (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (70%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (70%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (64%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (64%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); LEGG MASON INC (83%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (82%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (70%); BARTLETT & CO (64%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; COMMISSIONS (FEES) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); ACQUISITIONS (62%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE RAYMOND A MASON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



27 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
Dollar's Star Tied to Budget

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
The central question about the dollar in 1996 is: If President Clinton and the Republican Congress agree on a credible plan to balance the Federal budget in seven years, will this push the dollar higher or lower?
Naturally, economists are divided over this question. 
 Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has lost no opportunity in recent months to indicate that cutting the budget deficit means a stronger dollar.
But at a symposium organized in September in Jackson Hole, Wyo., by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Laurence Ball of John Hopkins University and Gregory Mankiw of Harvard presented a paper arguing that closing the budget gap is more likely to depress the dollar.
And a number of prominent American economists, including Paul Krugman of Stanford University and Martin Feldstein of Harvard, agree.
At first sight there does not appear to be any necessary connection between a country's budgetary discipline, or lack of it, and the exchange rate of its currency.
After all, the dollar went through the roof in the 1980's just as the Federal budget deficit was exploding. And the German mark remained strong despite the big fiscal stimulus provided by unification with East Germany.
On the other hand, contagion from Mexico's financial disaster early in 1995 quickly spread to other countries judged to have unsustainable budget deficits, including Italy, Sweden and Canada, putting downward pressure on their currencies.
Chris Turner, an economist at the British securities firm of Barclays de Zoete Wedd, has analyzed 11 examples of fiscal tightening in such countries as Germany, Italy, Japan, Ireland and Norway. In five of these cases, cutting the budget deficit sent the exchange rate higher. In the other six, the exchange rate fell.
Those who believe a lower budget deficit translates into a weaker currency argue that less government red ink leads to less domestic spending which in turn means lower interest rates, reduced capital inflow and a lower exchange rate.
C. Fred Bergsten, head of Washington's Institute for International Economics, said that while he did not exclude a brief "upward tick" in the dollar's value if a credible budget-balancing agreement is reached, in the longer run the outcome would be lower interest rates and a weaker currency.
This in turn would give American industry the competitiveness it needs abroad to increase exports.
The opposite view holds that tackling the Federal budget deficit would convince the international community the United States is finally curing its wasteful ways. That in turn would prompt a great new surge of international confidence in the dollar that will propel its value higher.
Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman, Sachs International, said, "A good budget agreement would bring lower interest rates, a rising stock market and a big surge of investment in America from Asia and Japan that would lift the dollar." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (71%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (54%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (67%); GERMAN MARK (67%); BONDS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (72%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



28 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY
The Economic Consensus on 1996: The Year of the Big Yawn;
. . . to Optimism on Everything

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Gail D. Fosler, a former chief economist for the Senate Budget Committee, is not known as a particularly venturesome forecaster. This year, however, she is much more optimistic than her colleagues: her prediction of 1996 growth was more than three-quarters of a percentage point higher than any other forecaster polled by the newsletter Blue Chip Economic Indicators.
Ms. Fosler, now at the Conference Board, a corporate-sponsored research group, finds economic strength nearly everywhere and does not assume any election-year gunning. 
 She points to nine consecutive quarters in which domestic demand has climbed at least 4 percent, a rise in current wage and salary of about 3 percent after inflation, a rise in hourly earnings, continued high rates of business investment and the "substantial stimulus" the economy is getting from the drop in long-term interest rates.
"Eventually output is going to rise to meet demand," she says. The first half of the new year will get a lift from a cut in the capital gains tax, she adds, which she expects to survive the final round of budget talks.
And Ms. Fosler says that not only has the impact of proposed tax cuts been underestimated, the impact of proposed cuts in spending has been overestimated. Spending on health care, for example, does not have the multiplier effect of, say, closing a military base or scrapping a missile system.
Ms. Fosler worries little about the buildup of consumer debt, which she says is no higher than at previous peaks and is a dubious predictor. "I've never seen debt represent a barrier to consumer spending in the absence of other shocks," like the Persian Gulf war, she says. She believes that the consumer sector is neither weak nor strong -- it is just not where the economic action is.
Ms. Fosler says the Federal Reserve will not make further cuts in short-term interest rates and is baffled by the consensus that it must.
The economy is not in danger of stalling, she says, and she also points to inflation pressures like the 7 to 8 percent increase in the price of industrial materials the last year.
She is a bit concerned, however, about her forecast's being so much higher than those of other economists.
"I can't figure out," Ms. Fosler says, "why everybody doesn't think like I do." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BLUE CHIP ECONOMIC INDICATORS (NEWSLETTER); CONFERENCE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BLUE CHIP ECONOMIC INDICATORS (NEWSLETTER); CONFERENCE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; FORECASTS; SURVEYS AND SERIES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); DESERT STORM (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: FOSLER, GAIL D GAIL D FOSLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



29 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
In Japan, Pessimism Is Pervasive

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
FOR Japan, 1995 was annus horribilis: an earthquake in the central city of Kobe, a nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway, a gyrating yen, a banking crisis and a sagging economy.
Many Japanese remain anxious, cynical and uncertain about the economy in the year ahead, and this is reflected in the number of rakes they are buying. 
 Rakes?
In Japan, rakes are a traditional symbol of good luck in commerce, and so every November Japanese go to Shinto shrines to pray and to buy rakes, or kumade, in hope of raking in profits during the coming year. But rake purchases (175-pound rakes sell for $3,000, while hand-size ones cost about $7) tend to increase when times are good and drop when they are bad, as they have been doing the last several years.
So far, the rake sales seem to be trailing those of a year ago, suggesting that even hope may be evaporating.
"It's the worst we've seen in recent years," an official in charge of rakes at Hanazono shrine in Tokyo said. "Such poor sales are really depressing."
The Government is hoping a huge stimulus package it planned for the next few months will bolster the economy for a good chunk of next year. Partly because of that, many economists have raised their forecasts for 1996, putting growth at about 2 percent or more, compared with an estimated growth rate of less than 1 percent that was forecast for 1995.
But improved growth prospects do not appear to have raised the confidence of consumers or business executives. Consumers continue to curb their spending.
Moreover, some analysts say the depressed property market and the nation's troubled financial institutions, which are saddled with at least $400 billion in bad real estate loans, are a potential drag on the economy. In December, the Finance Ministry announced sweeping measures to change the way it manages the nation's banks, but there may still be bankruptcies.
Even the failures of small institutions can cause significant ripples throughout the region. When Nishiki Finance, a consumer finance company in Osaka, declared bankruptcy last summer, its failure provoked the subsequent bankruptcies of 445 small companies that did business with it.
Toshifumi Suzuki, president of Ito-Yokado Company Ltd., a retailer, is an outspoken cynic about prospects for growth next year. Mr. Suzuki will be adding 500 stores in Japan to his chain of about 6,000 7-Eleven Stores across Japan and 5,630 in the United States, but real economic recovery, he said, will emerge only if the Government loosens rules and regulations.
"All the signs are pointing to gloomy prospects," he said. If things remain as they are, he added, the prospects are as bad as they were for 1995.
Others were less pessimistic, although many economists and industry executives are aware of the potential obstacles to growth. High unemployment has crimped household sales, and recognition that the years of economic boom are unlikely to return soon are dampening expectations.
But one of the main reasons Mr. Suzuki and other Japanese executives remain cautious is that sustained, broad-based vitality strongly depends on economic deregulation and revamping, which have not had a widespread impact in Japan.
There are, however, a few bright spots. The technology sector is growing quickly, and business profits in general are expected to rise.
Moreover, some analysts are bullish about the stock market. The market's chief barometer, the Nikkei index of 225 issues, is trading close to 20,000 after trading below 15,000 in July. A rising market could help raise confidence in the economy over all.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Climbing Back?" tracks annual growth of the gross domestic product in Japan from 1981 through a projected 1995, 1996, and 1997. (Source: James Capel Strategy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: IYCOY (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: ITO-YOKADO CO LTD (63%); 7-ELEVEN INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); TRENDS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); RETAILERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); RELIGION (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: TOSHIFUMI SUZUKI (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



30 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
1995 HIGHLIGHTS

 BODY:

So Many Deals, So Little Time
 It wasn't "another day, another billion-dollar merger" last year -- it was far more than that. According to the Securities Data Corporation, 1995 (through Dec. 26 anyway) saw American companies announce some $465 billion in mergers and acquisitions, surpassing the old record of $347 billion set just the previous year. And while hostile takeovers are happening with greatest frequency since 1988, a popular offshoot is the "bear hug" -- an offer too good for the target company's board to refuse. (Did someone say I.B.M.-Lotus?) 
 Because most deals these days involve stock rather than debt, whih was the 1980's instrument of choice, the merger trend has a spiraling effect on Wall Street: a rising stock market lifts the value of company shares, which make deals easier to do, which stimulates speculation about other takeover candidates, which helps lift stock prices, which make more deals easier to do.
 
The New Billionaires
 Millionaire. What a quaint term. They're a dollar a dozen these days. If you're talking real money, you're talking billionaires.
There's Bill Gates, of course, who could buy and sell a few billionaires before breakfast. But others vaulted into these rarefied ranks last year, notably James H. Clark, founder of Netscape Communications, whose holdings crossed that threshold in November as Netscape's stock kept soaring toward Internet heaven.
And Steve Jobs -- yes, the Apple co-founder is back -- joined this elite briefly. When Pixar Animation Studios, his latest venture, went public, the stock nearly doubled in a day, sending Mr. Jobs's 80 percent stake past $1 billion. But the stock soon slid back again, leaving Mr. Jobs's holdings at a mere $866 million.
 
Commute? Moi?
Sometimes it seems the boss can get away with anything. As in: "I made the rules; I don't have to obey them." Sometimes, but not always.
At Morrison Knudsen, William Agee took the work-at-home concept to new heights -- or depths. Problems were mounting, along with complaints about his management, and morale was dismal at the Boise, Idaho, headquarters. Mr. Agee's solution: stay home in Pebble Beach, Calif., and run things from there. Did the directors mind all this? Apparently not -- though many of them had strong ties to a charity run by Mr. Agee's wife, Mary, so they might have been reluctant to challenge the boss. In February, though, it all got to be too much, and Mr. Agee departed.
 
A Fairer Shake From Nasdaq
To small investors, it's all too familiar. If you want to buy a Nasdaq stock, you see two prices miles apart: a "bid" price (what you can sell it for) of, say, $20 and an "asked" price (what you must pay to buy it) of $25. An exaggeration, perhaps, but not by that much. The little guy, of course, rarely gets the best price on any stock trade, but Nasdaq is notorious for nibbling the most extra pennies. But last year the S.E.C. -- and, grudgingly, Nasdaq itself -- moved to make things a little fairer, making various proposals to give everyone access to the best prices at all times.
 
Don't Look Back, Kerkorian May Be Gaining
If takeover battles typically resemble samurai warfare, Kirk Kerkorian's pursuit of Chrysler is more in keeping with the stratagems of chess masters. And though Chrysler is far from being captured, it can't seem to bring the game quite to a close. In April, Mr. Kerkorian made a $22.8 billion offer -- one that shareholders found hard to take too seriously because he didn't have financing in place and couldn't line up a Wall Street firm to lead the charge. But Mr. Kerkorian brought in Jerome B. York, a former chief financial officer for Chrysler, to figure a way to keep pressure on the company.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Jobs (Terrence McCarthy); William J. Agee; Kirk Kerkorian (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NSCP (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; CORPORATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (74%); CHARITIES (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); ANIMATION (64%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (88%); BILL GATES (71%); KIRK KERKORIAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



31 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
1995 HIGHLIGHTS

 BODY:

New Tack on Interest Rates
After raising interest rates for more than a year, the Federal Reserve reversed course in 1995 and cut short-term interest rates twice, in July and in December, bringing the Fed's rate for overnight loans, to 5.5 percent. Signs of soft economic growth and moderate inflation prompted the rate cuts and some economists say that -- and an agreement in Washington to balance the budget -- will be the recipe for several more cuts this year. 
 A little bipartisan harmony could also help the prospects of Alan Greenspan, the Republican-appointed Fed chairman, and Alan S. Blinder, the Democratic-appointed vice chairman, both of whose terms expire in the very political year of 1996.
 
BANKING LOOKS TO CLOSE RANKS
There simply had never been a year like it in banking, an industry that had resisted the merger and acquisition fixation of other sectors. But times have apparently changed: more banks were sold in the first nine months of the year than in any full year before, with the biggest deal the $10 billion acquisition of Chase Manhattan by Chemical Banking. The new bank, which will keep the Chase name, will become the largest American commercial bank.
What do these mergers mean for consumers? Well, as banks consolidate their operations, there should be fewer branches and fewer jobs: one study forecast that half the nation's 59,000 bank branches will close and 450,000 of the industry's 2.8 million jobs will be eliminated in the next 10 years. Translation: there's an A.T.M. in your future.
 
FIRST COMBINE, THEN DIVIDE
Corporate America was indeed restless last year, with lots of big companies craving to become much bigger, while other giants felt bloated and had the urge to slim down. But had AT&T tried to get any bigger, it would have burst, so it splintered itself in three. In part, of course, this represented the failure of a previous round of gobbling -- AT&T's 1991 purchase of NCR. That computer business is one of the three new splinters, along with communications service and equipment.
 
LABOR LOSES MORE OF ITS PUNCH
Even for the grim slide organized labor's been on, last year was surprisingly bleak. While many companies posted record profits, earnings for union workers rose at the smallest annual rate on record. Companies like Caterpillar that stood their ground against strikers could claim victory.
Meanwhile, three of the nation's biggest unions -- the steel workers, automobile workers and machinists -- made plans to form a two-million-member giant. And Lane Kirkland was effectively ousted after 16 years as president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. John J. Sweeney, head of the service employees union, won the subsequent election, though in time he may wonder just what he has won.
 
RESOLUTION TRUST, 1989 - 1995
In the partial shutdown that characterized Washington's holiday season, there were no doubt few cups of cheer raised to the Resolution Trust Corporation. But the agency that had been set up in 1989 to save the country's savings and loans from their investment excesses of the 1980's officially went out of business on Dec. 31. Reviews on its performance -- taking over hundreds of savings and loans, selling their assets, investigating the conduct of bank officers and pressing for recovery of misused funds -- were mixed. But the agency's legacy will still be visible in the coming months. Japan is using the R.T.C. as a model for an agency set up to dispose of failed banks there -- which should see plenty of work.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Greenspan (Marty Katz); John J. Sweeney, A.F.L.-C.I.O. president. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CMB (NYSE) (66%); CHL (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COMMERCIAL BANK (55%); AFL-CIO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); MERGERS (88%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BANK BRANCHES (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); LAYOFFS (68%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); MACHINE TOOLS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



32 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
Arrest in Fatal Queens Fire
Fire marshals arrested a paroled drug offender who the authorities say accidentally caused a fire in an abandoned house in Jamaica, Queens, that claimed the life of a firefighter, Lieut. John M. Clancy, inset. Prosecutors charged the man with second-degree murder, saying he fled the scene and made a "conscious decision" not to help arriving firefighters determine whether people remained inside. [Page B1.]
 
Crew Reveals His Savvy
Six weeks after taking over as New York City's Schools Chancellor, Dr. Rudy Crew is turning out to be far more street-smart than was widely believed, a man determined to take charge not only of the city's vast school system but of the furious politics that surround it. Significantly, he meets at least once a week with Mayor Giuliani, whose ceaseless criticism had hounded Ramon C. Cortines from office. [B1.]
 
For Some, Famine After Feast
Most of the San Gennaro festival's contractors and employees have not been paid because of a continuing dispute over whether the festival is run by organized crime. The monitor appointed by the city said he hopes to concentrate on paying all debts he deems legitimate later this month. But the Society of San Gennaro, which runs the festival, said that the delays in payment have caused hardship. [B1.]
 
Federal Fight, Local Victims
Anyone compelled to tote up the biggest victims of 1995 might want to consider the thousands of New Yorkers whose lives are still being turned upside down by the budgetary gamesmanship in Washington that has shut down much of the Government for weeks. A special nomination goes to the many small businesses whose livelihoods trickle down the drain because of their dependence on a practically nonexistent Federal apparatus. NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B1.]
 
Weighing a Judge's Past
One of Mayor Giuliani's recent choices for judge flunked out of Brooklyn Law School twice and never earned a law degree but became a lawyer by studying on his own and passing the bar exam. The judge, Robert E. Torres, acknowledged that he had had "academic problems" that brought an end to his two brief stints in law school in the 1970's. But he and his supporters said his ability to overcome those hurdles and forge a legal career for himself spoke well of his abilities and intelligence. [B3.]
 
New Year Starts With Sushi
For many Japanese-Americans, Jan. 1 is a particularly special holiday, one in which they not only welcome the new year but call attention to their heritage with elaborate parties featuring delicacies from Japan. The day is celebrated with a traditional Japanese meal of steaming ozoni (traditional Japanese rice cake soup), makizushi (hand-rolled vegetable sushi), chicken teriyaki and a rainbow-colored gelatin dish called kanten. But for many, it is really about tradition. [B3.]
 
Train Riders Are Stranded
About 1,000 people leaving New York City after ringing in the New Year were stranded for three hours on the Hackensack River Bridge after the New Jersey Transit train they were riding in broke down. [B3.]
 
City Unions Push for Higher Pay
New York City's labor unions are on a collision course with Mayor Giuliani over the issue they have made their No. 1 legislative priority: enacting a law that would require companies with city contracts to pay more than the $4.25-an-hour minimum wage. A coalition of 97 labor unions wants city contractors to pay workers at least $9 an hour and give them health insurance. [B4.]
 
REGION
 
Pataki Plans Austerity Budget
Reducing spending from state taxes for the second consecutive year, Governor Pataki's budget for 1996-97 promises an austerity not seen in Albany since World War II. The budget provides perhaps the clearest view yet of Mr. Pataki's three core political beliefs: that shrinking government and reducing taxes spur economic growth; that lengthening prison sentences deters crime, and that sharply limiting welfare benefits encourages work. [A1.]
 
Race an Issue in Shooting
On a quiet, dark street in Elmont, L.I., a white police officer confronted a black man he thought was acting suspiciously. Minutes later, the black man was dead with nine bullet wounds. That fatal encounter is now at the center of a disagreement between the Nassau County police and friends of the dead man, who said he was killed because of the color of his skin. [B6.]
 
Drive-By Shooting Wounds 4
Just four hours into the New Year, a drive-by shooting in Elizabeth, N.J., left four people wounded. [B6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); MURDER (78%); PAROLE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (63%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



33 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: A Toll Road in California Offers A High-Tech Answer to Traffic

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: YORBA LINDA, Calif., Jan. 1

 BODY:
The section of the Riverside Freeway that runs past this Orange County community is one of the busiest stretches of highway in the Los Angeles region, which means it is among the busiest stretches of highway anywhere in the world.
Other freeways dump extra traffic onto both ends of the stretch, and the result is an old Southern California tale of road woe: traffic can clog the 10-mile-long bottleneck at any time, and during rush-hour gridlock is a sure thing that can routinely cost commuters an additional 25 to 35 minutes of stop-and-start travel time. 
 But as of last week, the-bumper-to-bumper gridlock on the freeway, also known as State Route 91, began to improve -- for those willing and able to pay for it.
In what transportation specialists say is a bold experiment in traffic management in the state that made traffic management both an art form and an oxymoron, a private company has opened a brand new toll road, the most technologically sophisticated highway ever built anywhere, smack in the median of the old jammed road.
And the company, California Private Transportation, guarantees that any commuter willing to pay the price will have a delay-free, 65-mile-an-hour ride through the bottleneck.
Or your money back.
The price?
An insignificant 25 cents for a one-way trip in the middle of the night, but a hefty, think-twice $2.50 for a trip during the middle of the rush hour, which in the Los Angeles basin actually lasts a good three hours.
The fare is collected electronically, this being the ultimate space-age highway, with no delaying toll lanes or toll booths.
All vehicles using the road must carry a prepurchased windshield transponder that sends a coded signal to a computer whenever the vehicle rolls onto the road. The computer records the identity of the car and the fare in effect at the time of travel. Then, periodically, bills are sent to the driver's home, credit card company or bank.
The small print?
Though the new four-lane road will rely mainly on computerized traffic-monitoring devices and the we'll-bill-you-later toll system to make good on its money-back guarantee to keep traffic moving without delay, its ultimate quality control device will be its toll schedule, posted prominently for all to see on overhead entrance signs.
If at any point over several months, traffic on the road becomes so heavy that delays occur, fares will be raised for that travel hour until some of the overload shifts to the old road, however jammed its eight free lanes might already be.
"Once again California is leading the way for the whole nation in ground transportation," James W. van Loben Sels, director of the California Department of Transportation, said at Wednesday's ribbon-cutting ceremony that opened the new $126 million road, built at the company's expense with state approval.
Gerald S. Pfeffer, the managing director of California Private Transportation, takes a similar, though more business-oriented, view of the road, which stretches through a series of sunny bedroom communities from the Riverside County line on the east to State Route 55 on the west.
"We're another example of private enterprise filling a gap in government services -- the Federal Express of roads," he said on one of his daily inspection tours. "Some drivers need and are willing to pay for guaranteed overnight delivery. Others don't have to get there overnight and are willing to take their chances with a postage stamp. You get what you pay for, the great American way."
But some questions have been raised by environmentalists and growth control advocates about whether adding still more highway capacity is the right approach to the commuting problems of California or the nation. And here and there, some defenders of the needy have raised questions about whether the new road might "price the poor out of the fast lane."
Mr. Pfeffer counters that highways cannot be ignored as part of the transportation mix, and that his privately built and operated road, while not free, lightens not only the tax load on poor citizens but also the traffic load on the jammed parallel road that their economic status might force them to use.
"What could be fairer or more American?" he argued. "Anyway, most toll roads in this country don't offer drivers a genuine alternative, just yards away."
He noted that like many major American highways, especially California highways, the Riverside Freeway, already clogged with 270,000 vehicles daily, anticipates a 50 percent increase in traffic over the next 15 years. At the same time, he pointed out, taxpayers are demanding better roads but increasingly are resisting paying for them, just as the Federal Government is beginning to cut back on construction aid.
"We see the private toll road making a comeback in this country," Mr. Pfeffer said.
"Transportation departments in Virginia, Minnesota, Texas and Washington State already are talking about adopting our concept and other variations."
In fact, some private toll roads have recently been completed in other areas of the county, including one in Northern Virginia. But they are mainly the traditional type of toll road, designed to stretch an old road to a new point; they do not use parallel lanes to compete for the old road's jammed-up traffic.
Besides being the first private toll road to compete with an adjacent free public road, the new road here is also the world's first fully automated toll road, relying not just on transponders to collect fares but on other space-age devices to guarantee users a smooth, safe ride.
Midway along the road, engineers and safety officials sit in a darkened situation room, 24 hours a day, monitoring movement on every inch of the road with remote television cameras, as well as various combinations of lasers and computers, to alert the authorities to problems.
The vehicle windshield transponders required of all travelers are about the size of a deck of cards and can be obtained by mail or at toll road offices by putting down a $40 deposit that will be credited toward the bill. Whenever $30 in tolls has been rung up, bills go out.
And what if a vehicle without a transponder enters the road?
The sensors note that and, depending on availability, a highway patrol car may give chase -- and then a ticket or a warning. But if no patrol car is immediately available, an overhead television camera, which constantly records an image of all cars entering the highway, separates out a special shot of the violator, including an enhanced close-up of the rear license plate.
A warning or a ticket is then mailed to the vehicle's owner, with fines starting at $100 for the first intentional violation and rising to $300 or more for multiple violations.
Standing in line here at a newly opened tollway office that was taking orders for transponders, Bonnie Lutz was almost joyful about the prospect of driving the new road.
"For years," she said, "I've spent the better part of every Friday and Sunday afternoon fighting that old highway, losing precious time that I could spend with my family at our mountain place. And all during the week, Chris, my husband, fights it, losing time, and money, because he's a salesman. Thirty dollars in tolls a week? Chris can more than make that up after this with the extra sales he'll have time to fit in."

GRAPHIC: Maps show the site of the variable toll highway. (pg. C33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA PRIVATE TRANSPORTATION

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PRIVATE TRANSPORTATION

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TOLLS TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



34 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
Overseas Markets Expected to Improve

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
OVERSEAS markets are beginning to perk up and may offer better opportunities in 1996 than they did last year, several market analysts say. They argue that the favorable trends in American markets are spreading overseas.
"The factors which have made U.S. markets do well will gradually apply to foreign investments that are in good growth areas," said David R. Malpass, director for international economics at Bear, Stearns & Company. Mr. Malpass said he believed that Southeast Asia -- especially Singapore and Hong Kong -- would particularly benefit. 
 Expected declines in interest rates overseas, particularly in Europe and Japan, should bolster overseas markets, as they have over the last year in the United States. Stock markets love the prospect of cheaper money, which tends to persuade investors to favor stocks over bonds and which also reduces costs for investors who buy stocks with borrowed funds.
"Deflationary pressures roam throughout most of the developed world and downward pressures on money rates and bond yields should persist," said Charles I. Clough Jr., chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, whose firm recently forecast that emerging markets in Latin America, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe would continue to recover in 1996 from their recently depressed positions.
Economic growth is expected to remain particularly strong in Southeast Asia, helping equity markets there.
Nicholas Kwan, senior economist in Merrill Lynch's Asian Research Group, forecasts average economic growth in 1996 of 7.4 percent for the 10 major Asian economies, excluding Japan, compared with 7.9 percent in 1995.
Even Japan, which has been in the doldrums for more than three years, looks set to pick up. The Bank of Japan "has stepped on the gas" as Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a market newsletter, wrote recently, drawing attention to the 16.4 percent growth in the assets of the central bank in November.
This reflationary push has already helped to revive Japanese bank stocks and is likely to help push the economy to grow faster. The Nikkei 225 stock index recovered in recent months, closing at 19,868.15 at year-end. This turnaround, from a low of 14,484.41 in July, brings the index roughly back to its level of 19,723.06 at the end of 1994.
But some are cautious on the outlook for Japanese stocks. "It's hard to read," Mr. Malpass said, "Each year for the last four years, people have been positive at this time of year," and their expectations have not been met. "This year might be different," he added, "because of the new central bank policy."
And in Europe, there are some big risks and uncertainties to make investors hesitate. The countries of the European Union have yet to organize, and agree on, their program for proposed monetary union. And the size of fiscal deficits are likely to inhibit economic growth, although prospective interest rate cuts should buoy equity markets. The London stock market has already experienced some strong growth in 1995. In terms of dollars, the Financial Times index of 100 leading shares rose 19.2 percent for the year, to 3,689.30, its high for the year.
Now it may be the turn of markets on the Continent. Gary A. Dugan, European strategist for J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd., said he liked the interest rate environment on the Continent. "We are talking about interest rates coming down quite aggressively," he said, "by as much as two percentage points to three percentage points, in Spain, Italy and Sweden, led by the Germans cutting their rates." He added that a widening spread between short- and long-term interest rates in several European countries should help bank profits, making banks good investments in the next few months.
The DAX stock market index in Germany has already risen in response to recent cuts in interest rates. That index closed at 2,253.88 at the end of the year, up substantially from levels close to 1,900 in March. The CAC 40 share index in France, depressed by recent nationwide strikes, did not provide significant gains in 1995. At year-end, the index was at 1,871.97, about 150 points above the year low of 1,721.14, and down from its high for the year of 2,017.27 on May 12.
LATIN America has already begun to rebound from the Mexican crisis of a year ago. Argentina and Brazil are expected to emerge from recession in the first few months of 1996. Argentina and Mexico, where output declined in 1995, will recover in 1996 and 1997, according to J. P. Morgan's emerging markets economic outlook.
Stock market indexes in Latin America often rise rapidly as stock prices keep pace with local inflation. The chief stock market index in Mexico reached a high for the year of 2,747.46 on Dec. 20 and closed at 2,778.47 at year-end, nearly doubling in value from its 1995 low of 1,447.52 on Feb. 27. Indeed, one caveat for Mexico may be that the index is now just short of the record high reached in the fall of 1994. Argentina and Brazil also saw their stock markets rise late in the year in anticipation of the benefits of a resumption of economic growth. Argentina's General index finished the year at 16,237.81, up substantially from a March 9 low for the year of 9,831.09, but still down from its level in early January when the index touched 16,531.1. TheBovespa index in Brazil rallied late in the year to levels over 42,000, ending the year at 42,990.02, almost twice its level in March.
But many analysts, while seeing the opportunities abroad, said that it would still be difficult to move American investors to look overseas.
Why should American investors want to exchange their dollars for overseas equities priced in foreign currencies when the dollar is expected to strengthen, thus cutting into their gains in dollar terms?
"The U.S. will provide the hurdle," Mr. Malpass said. "It will be the toughest benchmark for international investors." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (72%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); DEFLATION (76%); EURO (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER DAVID R MALPASS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



35 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-6
 
JAPAN'S FARMS UNDER PRESSURE
American pressure that opened Japanese markets to imported rice and other agricultural products has taken a harsh toll in small Japanese traditional farm towns. A1
 
PUTTING A BRIDGE BEHIND THEM
The American military is pleased to be past the tough job of building a bridge over the Sava River, but logistics are proving to be the biggest problems for modern peacekeepers. A6
 
BOSNIAN CAPITAL STILL DIVIDED
The confusion and mistrust about the NATO troops in Bosnia was evident in Sarajevo, where a lack of trust among groups continues to divide the city. A6
 
A SHIFT IN SAUDI ARABIA
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia handed over authority to his half-brother, saying he needed time to rest; a royal decree did not specify how long he would be absent. A3
 
SOUTH KOREAN FACES QUESTIONS
Former President Chun Doo Hwan of South Korea was reported to be recovering from a hunger strike, but faced a grilling about a slush fund he is accused of having accumulated while in office. A4
 
Moscow Journal: At Starlite Diner, rubles buy burgers. A3
 
National A7, C33-35
 
STATES UNSURE ON FEDERAL AID
State legislators are convening as virtual captives of the Federal budget impasse, with no idea how much money they will receive for Medicaid and welfare. A1
 
CLINTON'S PATH FOR '96
After a tumultuous year that brought him from the low point of the Republican sweep of Congress to some of the highest popularity ratings of his Presidency, Bill Clinton enters the 1996 election year on the rebound, gearing up for what will most likely be one of his most difficult campaigns. A1
 
The Clintons again spent the holiday at Renaissance Weekend. C35
 
PAYING TO AVOID GRIDLOCK
The bumper-to-bumper gridlock on the Riverside Freeway in Southern California has begun to improve -- for those willing and able to pay for it on a new private toll road. A1
 
BORDER CROSSING AUTOMATED
Using what is billed as the world's first voice-activated border crossing, Scobey, Mont., will test an system that will allow registered local residents to cross the border 24 hours a day. A7
 
LANDMARK LIBRARY CLOSES
The San Francisco Main Library, which has been a shelter for 78 years -- first for bibliophiles but more recently for the homeless -- closed its Beaux Arts doors. A7
 
COMMENTS ON TOBACCO RULES
The Food and Drug Administration is bracing for a last-minute flood of commentary, from impassioned postcards to industry documents, on its plans to regulate cigarettes, snuff and chewing tobacco. A7
 
GOLD IN SEA URCHINS
Sea urchins have gone from being a despised scavenger of lobster bait to Maine's second most valuable marine harvest. C33
 
PERIL AT 2 HISTORIC CEMETERIES
Although there are more than two dozen historic cemeteries in New Orleans, people are especially attracted to two crime-ridden sites just outside the French Quarter, because of their links to voodoo and the occult. C33
 
Metro Digest B2
 
EXAMINING PATAKI'S BUDGET
Gov. George E. Pataki's budget for 1996-97 promises an austerity not seen in Albany since World War II. It aims to shrink government and reduce taxes to spur economic growth, and reflects his plans to lengthen prison sentences to deter crime and sharply limit welfare benefits to encourages work and independence. A1
 
Science Times B9-18
 
GENES AND PERSONALITY
A gene variant has been found that seems to predispose its possessors to a love of novelty. People with it tend to be extroverted, impulsive, extravagant, quick-tempered, excitable and exploratory, researchers say. The finding suggests a genetic basis for at least some aspects of personality. A1
 
Military bases become peaceful sanctuaries for rare species. B9
A new family tree of language to explain descent of German. B9
The football as gyroscoped: physics of the forward pass. B9
A new survey of the status of species in the U.S. B12
Q&A B13
Personal Computers B11, B14
 
Obituaries C36
 
Adm. Arleigh A. Burke, former Chief of Naval Operations.
Palmer Williams, "60 Minutes" executive.
Sir Trenchard Cox, museum director.
 
Business Digest C1
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Fashion Page B8
 
Arts/Entertainment A9-13
 
Public television stays on the Federal budget list. A9
Holiday films: Hits and flops. A9
Bolshoi's director looks ahead. A9
Music: Delbert McClinton. A10
The Bogmen. A10
Philharmonic chestnuts. A10
Books: A year in the life of a Japanese woman and her family. A13
TV: More "Alien Nation." C40
"Trouble With Lawyers." C40
 
Sports B19-25
 
Basketball: Bulls off to hot start. B19
Knicks contend with Ewing's absence. B23
Column: Moran on Rose Bowl. B19
Football: U.S.C. defeats Northwestern in the Rose Bowl. B19
Huskers and Gators to test defense. B19
Tennessee stops Ohio State. B20
Florida State beats Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl. B20
Hockey: Rangers do some reflecting. B22
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
A clean slate in Albany.
The new Great Game in Asia.
The need to nourish tourism.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Dream on, big spender.
Jacob Heilbrunn and Michael Lind: The third American empire.
Eric J. Siy: They hate the Government, but love those subsidies.
Jaron Lanier: Unmuzzling the Internet.
 
Chronicle B7
 
Chess B18
 
Crossword A13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); BORDER CONTROL (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); MEDICAID (66%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (63%); CEMETERIES (60%); LIBRARIES (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



36 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Unions Push for Higher Minimum Wage on New York City Contracts

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
New York City's labor unions are on a collision course with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani over the issue they have made their No. 1 legislative priority: enacting a law that would require companies with city contracts to pay more than the $4.25-an-hour minimum wage.
A coalition of 97 labor unions is pushing the City Council to approve one of two similar bills that would obligate city contractors to pay workers at least $9 an hour and provide health insurance. 
 Supporters of the idea assert that the city has a moral obligation to insure that all people working under city contracts receive what they call a living wage -- one that lifts them above the poverty line and provides enough money so they do not need welfare, food stamps and housing subsidies to get by.
"This living-wage legislation is at the top of our agenda," said Brian McLaughlin, the new president of the New York City Central Labor Council, the union coalition that he is seeking to re-establish as a major force in city politics. "We're seeing city workers being replaced with private-sector people who make the minimum wage or just a little more and receive no protection for health care."
The Giuliani administration is vigorously fighting the legislation, saying it will raise city labor costs $500 million to $750 million a year, forcing it to make further budget cuts.
"We're in very difficult fiscal times, and it's critical that the city make the most of every tax dollar that it spends," said Richard Schwartz, a senior adviser to the Mayor. "This would make the least of every tax dollar and translate into massive service reductions that hurt precisely the kinds of people the bill's proponents claim they are trying to help."
The City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, who holds great sway over every piece of legislation the Council considers, said he supported the idea but had reservations about the ultimate cost of the proposal and was trying to negotiate a compromise bill. One of the bills under consideration has the support of a majority of the Council.
In lobbying for the bill, New York's unions have embraced a strategy that labor is pursuing around the nation as John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new president, has hammered home the theme of giving America a raise.
Convinced that the Republican-led Congress will not raise the Federal minimum wage unions are pushing state legislatures to enact higher state minimum wages and pressing city councils like New York's to approve "living wage" laws. Last summer, Baltimore's City Council enacted a law requiring that city contractors pay workers at least $6.60 an hour, while the City Council in Jersey City is debating a bill that would force city contractors to pay $12.10 an hour.
According to the Giuliani administration, the city will spend $5.6 billion this year on contracts for goods and services. (The figure does not include construction contracts; state law requires that the city pay construction workers union scale.)
City officials say they do not know exactly how many people work under those contracts, although some supporters of the wage proposal estimate that it would cover at least 50,000 people. About a quarter of them, labor leaders say, make less than $6 an hour as custodians, security guards and clerical workers, among other jobs.
Labor leaders are confident that some version of the living-wage legislation will be approved because 29 of the City Council's 51 members co-sponsored the original version of the bill. That bill, introduced by Sal F. Albanese of Brooklyn, calls for paying $12.10 an hour to private-sector workers employed under city contracts. A newer version, sponsored by Kathryn E. Freed of Manhattan, would set the wage at about $9 an hour and require contractors to provide health insurance.
Mr. Albanese and Ms. Freed said that the city paid contractors an average of $11 an employee an hour, while the contractors often paid their workers $5 or less per hour.
"Some city contractors pay so little that their workers need food stamps or housing subsidies," Ms. Freed said. "Why should we, the taxpayers, subsidize employers who pay less than subsistence wages?"
The Albanese and Freed bills have ground slowly forward since the summer. Hearings have been held, but Mr. Vallone has not put either bill on a fast track. But in recent weeks, the city's labor unions and a coalition of community groups led by the Rev. Johnny Ray Youngblood, pastor of St. Paul's Community Baptist Church in East New York, Brooklyn, have mounted a major campaign to push the bill forward.
"People who work full time should not remain mired in poverty," said Michael Gecan, the chief lobbyist for the community coalition. "If you pay workers a living wage, they'll be able to buy food, get off public assistance, invest in their families' education, buy homes. That will help reknit the fabric of the city."
A major snag is that Mr. Vallone said he was uncomfortable with the Albanese and Freed bills because they might cost too much. He is negotiating a scaled-down version that might, for instance, require the city to give preference to contractors that offer health insurance. Mr. Vallone is also considering requiring contractors to a pay a minimum percentage of the contract amount as wages -- perhaps 50 to 60 percent.
"I have to think that a living-wage bill is a fascinating idea," Mr. Vallone said. "I wish we could do it and keep it balanced. A living-wage bill would be very helpful to get people off of welfare. But there are also legitimate concerns that you might be pushing people out of work. I'll support anything that works and that's balanced."
Labor leaders and Council members predict that the Mayor will veto any version the Council passes.
Criticizing the bill, Mr. Schwartz, the Mayor's adviser, said, "It would send out a very negative message about New York City, which is that we want to still try to administer a centralized, government-regulated economy even though the Berlin Wall fell years ago."
Mr. Schwartz said that the proposals before the City Council could push up wages around the city, negating the millions of dollars in savings that he said Mr. Giuliani had achieved by hiring private contractors to deliver city services.
Mr. Schwartz also said that the bill's supporters had exaggerated how many people working under city contracts received government aid.
But Mr. McLaughlin, the labor leader, said the savings the administration pointed to in its privatization efforts were illusory.
"Taxpayers save very little when the city contracts out services," he said. "And the economy suffers very much because you replace middle-income consumers with poor workers who need public subsidies." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (91%); NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (91%); NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); LIVING WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (76%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



37 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Remote Border Crossing Turning to Remote Control

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SCOBEY, Mont., Dec. 27

 BODY:
From the air, the United States' "silent" border is also invisible. In a vast prairie landscape, Canadian and American wheat fields stretch smoothly to each nation's edge.
But, in contradiction of a popular image of the world's longest open frontier, the Canadian-American border invisibly deforms the rural communities it courses through. 
 Like a cuckoo-clock Berlin wall, the steel border gates just outside of Scobey drop at 6 P.M., forcing cross-border visitors who tarry over dinner to pay the penalty: a 120-mile drive to and from Raymond, Mont., the nearest 24-hour border crossing. For generations it has been thus: a Christmas dinner invitation declined, a wedding reception left awkwardly early, a Canadian cousin's curling match missed.
"Our kids and grandkids are growing up without socializing," Jim Crandell, a hotel owner here, said of the lack of contact between the American and Canadian branches of his family. "It's really difficult if there is a wedding or a death in the family. We have a business back here we can't leave overnight."
In addition to the social connections, forged through marriage, the United States and Canada have the world's largest trading relationship. Trade between the countries is estimated at $300 billion for 1995.
"One hundred percent of the net new trade between the U.S. and Canada is occurring between the Western provinces and Western states," said Philip M. Burgess, co-author with Michael Kelly of a new statistical book, "Profile of Western North America."
"What you have along the length of the western border is a cross-border community developing," said Mr. Burgess, who is president of the Center for the New West, a study group based in Denver.
In recognition of the strong and growing economic ties between the countries, President Clinton and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada signed an accord last February in an effort to ease border crossings and increase air travel between the two countries. And so on Jan. 17 glasnost will come to the prairies in the form of video cameras, personal identification numbers and a computerized voice-recognition system.
Billed as the world's first voice-activated border crossing, this border post will test an electronic system that will allow registered local residents to cross back and forth 24 hours a day. If successful, the system could be expanded later this decade to the roughly one-third of the 113 United States-Canada crossings that are not 24-hour posts. Dotting the nearly 3,000-mile border, these isolated posts stretch from Washington State to eastern New York State to rural Maine.
Here in this northern town, where cars are driven on snow-covered streets four months out of the year, vehicles pass through two checkpoints -- an American one and a Canadian one -- every time they cross the boundary. In a measure of Scobey's remoteness, the village is 340 miles by road from Billings, Montana's largest city -- the equivalent of driving from New York City to Richmond.
"It's like a prayer that's been answered," said Edgar Richardson, a wheat farmer here who has been fighting the social deformities caused by the border for most of his 68 years. "This is like a dream come true for our two communities. We have been trying to get a 24-hour post for over 30 years."
To hear people around here tell it, human activity does not coincide with the hours set by Ottawa and Washington: 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. during the summer, and 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. during the rest of the year. Both Governments have long maintained that the low level of international traffic through here does not warrant staffing the crossing around the clock.
"On Saturday, a lady from here is marrying a fellow from Canada," said Gary Leibrand, who owns a plumbing and electrical supply store on Main Street. "A lot of the guests are going to have to stay overnight, whether they like it or not."
Concerts in the summer, rodeos in the fall and hockey games in the winter can involve overnight stays for visitors from Scobey or its Canadian neighbor, Coronach. In Scobey, a railhead town of 1,100, the struggling movie theater is cut off from a potential Canadian audience.
"Our daughter came here with some friends for a country-western show last August -- and they had to drive all the way around to get home," Chris Gold, a visiting Canadian elementary school teacher, said of the 120-mile detour the concertgoers took at 3 A.M.
On spring mornings, the best time for American farmers to spray herbicide on their Canadian wheat fields is well before the gates open. On summer evenings, when it stays light here until 10 P.M., the best time to catch walleyes in a Canadian reservoir is around the time the gate is closing. On a warm fall day, the best time to run a wheat harvesting combine can be in the late evening.
Over the years, several men who raced to the border at gate-closing time have been killed in car crashes.
"There shouldn't be a border anyhow," said Chris Gold's husband, David. "It's a stupid thing."
With last February's accord, life should change for the Golds and others in the cross-border community. Less than a year after that accord, there are already an additional 100 flights between Canada and the United States. And on the ground, both countries are experimenting with ways to ease the crossings.
"We want to increase air service, we want to increase rail service," Gov. Marc Racicot of Montana said in an interview.
To catch people who try to cross the border illegally, the United States Border Patrol maintains a network of movement sensors and surveys the border regularly with four-wheel-drive vehicles and airplanes.
"Our goal is a hassle-free border for honest travelers and businesses, and a brick wall for those who try to smuggle or break other laws at this border," Canada's Minister of National Revenue, David Anderson, said last summer of Canada's participation in the joint effort.
On the American side, the effort comes down to a sophisticated remote-controlled camera that can sweep, tilt and zoom in temperatures ranging from last week's 58 degrees below zero to last summer's 100 degrees.
"We were joking that if we use hand geometry, the hands would stick to the metal plate -- and that would not be very friendly," said Robert A. Mocny, the Immigration and Naturalization Service official in charge of developing alternative inspection technology. Used on some immigration lanes at Newark and John F. Kennedy International Airports, hand geometry computers measure the size of the right hand of a frequent international traveler as a means of rapid identification.
Today, as fresh snow sparkled in fields of yellow wheat stubble, David F. Kueber, the immigration service inspector stationed here, explained the newly installed system. During off hours in Scobey, an inspector at Raymond will monitor traffic through the remote-controlled camera. Scobey was chosen as a test site because of the virtual absence of border crime here.
To participate in the program, residents must apply for a wallet-sized pass card. After approval, cardholders record on a border post computer a secret phrase and a four-digit number. On approaching the crossing, the cardholder picks up a gate telephone, punches in the secret number, and then utters the secret phrase, a high-tech version of "open sesame."
If the computer does not recognize the voice, the driver can talk to the immigration inspector in Raymond by telephone. Using the camera, the inspector can also scan the car to verify that all passengers have cards. Drivers who take undocumented aliens across the border run the risk of losing their cards and their vehicles.
From both sides of the border, only praise is heard of the program.
"All the feedback I get is positive," said Rod Tande, manager of KCGM, a local radio station that bills itself as "the voice of the prairie."
Referring to Scobey's pioneering role in the electronic border experiment, Mr. Tande said, "We are tickled pink."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the border crossing in Scobey, Mont., an electronic system will permit some people to cross when the station is closed. David F. Kueber, an Immigration and Naturalization inspector, showed the system. (Larry Mayer for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Scobey, Montana. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (75%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW WEST PRESENTATIONS (53%); NEW WEST FOODS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; SCOBEY (MONT); CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (92%); MONTANA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (75%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CANADA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; VOICE RECOGNITION SYSTEMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); IDENTIFICATION DEVICES TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); VOICE RECOGNITION (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); WINTER SPORTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); WRITERS (64%); CHRISTMAS (54%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES JEAN CHRETIEN (58%); BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



38 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3134 words

HEADLINE: Clinton the Conciliator Finds His Line in Sand

SERIES: THE CONTENDERS -- Eighth article of a series.

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL and TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Bill Clinton had been ceding ground and seeking compromise for months, by temperament always the conciliator. But one day in early November, the President spelled out the limits of accommodation.
Closeted in the Oval Office with the leaders of Congress, Mr. Clinton told the Republicans that he would give them much of their budget, aides said. To win everything, the President said, pointing at the dark oak antique that Queen Victoria gave to Rutherford B. Hayes, they would have to elect someone else to sit at that desk. 
 It was a moment that crystalized the political philosophy that Mr. Clinton has embraced in the year of the Republican ascendancy.
Hoping to erode the rationale of any Republican challenger in 1996, he has steadily retreated to embrace his rivals' goal of balancing the Federal budget in seven years. This has meant accepting a level of cuts in domestic spending that Mr. Clinton's own advisers had repeatedly denounced as unthinkable.
But he has added Democratic grace notes and defended the role of Government by standing firm against certain Republican proposals for savings in programs for education, environmental protection and the Great Society health insurance plans, Medicare and Medicaid.
This balancing act has emerged across months in which Mr. Clinton has once again tried to reinvent himself -- refining, explaining, defending and amending his record of the past three years. By showing resolve this autumn on his handful of chosen issues, and by repeatedly characterizing the budget debate as a struggle over American values, the President, Democratic strategists say, has finally begun to change the impression that he stands for little.
"With the public, the great strength right now is that he is seen as fighting for things they believe in," said Mark Mellman, a Democratic political consultant.
In foreign policy as well, after months of embarrassing missteps, Mr. Clinton has staked out his own ground, coupling diplomacy with the threat of force to return Jean-Bertrand Aristide to Haiti and to push the Balkan leaders to reach a peace accord in their four-year-old war.
Indeed, after a tumultuous year that brought him from the low point of the Republican sweep of Congress to some of the highest popularity ratings of his Presidency, Mr. Clinton now enters the election year on the rebound, gearing up for what will most likely be the last and one of the most difficult campaigns of his life.
And yet he will run on the record of a very different Presidency than he and his supporters seemed to imagine when the man from Hope, the youngest President since John F. Kennedy, came into office speaking of generational and social change.
At first, Mr. Clinton embraced an activism that culminated in 1994 in his failed effort to enact the most ambitious social engineering in decades: the extension of health insurance coverage to all Americans.
Now, he has settled into a more rhetorical Presidency, trying to exploit his bully pulpit to keep an activist Republican Congress from dismantling Democratic social programs that have been embedded in the political landscape for decades.
The Vietnam-era protester who once seemed nonplused by foreign policy now takes obvious solace in his role as commander in chief and peacemaker in hot spots from Haiti to Northern Ireland to the Balkans.
But in reasserting United States leadership, he has dispatched 20,000 American troops to Bosnia in a peacekeeping mission that conventional political wisdom holds could well haunt him in an election year.
Mr. Clinton's political ratings are among the highest of his Presidency, as the public judges the President against a Republican Congress that it now thinks may be going too far in its quest to scale back the Federal Government. Mr. Clinton's Republican rivals have so far failed to capture the public imagination. And a President and White House team that have always thrived on campaigning seem newly energized and ready for the fight.
And yet, Mr. Clinton remains a figure of galvanizing public controversy, intensely unpopular with segments of the electorate.
Questions linger among voters about what he stands for. And the Republicans, through months of hearings into the Whitewater real estate deal, have worked to keep up doubts about the probity of Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary.
All this uncertainty hangs over the President's quest for a second term.
Who would Mr. Clinton, the consummate campaigner, be if freed from the burden and the adrenaline rush of another election? And would he change his agenda again if Democrats were to regain control of either or both chambers of Congress?
The Republicans paint him as a man without convictions, and even some of his disillusioned liberal supporters say Mr. Clinton is a creature of whatever political milieu he swims in. "Because he's a master of empathy, he's defined by his environment," one longtime supporter said. "He can't escape it. He doesn't soar above it."
Mr. Clinton declined to be interviewed for this article. His spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said: "This is not a moment for discussion about his political candidacy. It's a moment for working on budget issues."
But his advisers say Mr. Clinton has never been as malleable as he has been portrayed. "Who's the pollster on Nafta, the Mexican loan guarantee, on Bosnia?" asked James Carville, one of Mr. Clinton's campaign strategists in 1992. "Let's find this man and get our money back. You can't follow the polls and also do the unpopular thing."
Mr. Clinton's aides say the President has gone through a searing education in office, that he has come to curb his intellectual tendency to roam. Shocked by the repudiation of the 1994 election, they say, he became determined to hew to the centrist course he once promised.
 
Nontraditional Democrat
Many Contradictions Instead of a Theme
From the moment he began his quest for the Presidency, Mr. Clinton struggled to forge an identity as a nontraditional New Democrat.
But his search for what moderate Democrats like to call a third way has often led in contradictory directions instead of building into an overarching theme. This lack of coherence combined with the early abandonment of nominees like Zoe Baird and Lani Guinier in the face of opposition quickly earned Mr. Clinton a reputation for vacillation.
During the Democratic primaries of 1992, Mr. Clinton promised a middle-class tax cut. But in his first year in office he abandoned that pledge to seek instead an economic stimulus package of investments, and to emphasize deficit reduction.
The stimulus package quickly died in Congress, but months later Mr. Clinton passed his deficit reduction plan, including increases in taxes primarily for the rich, with no Republican votes. Then he took on organized labor, Congressional Democrats and some of his own top advisers by pushing the North American Free Trade Agreement through a reluctant Congress.
These initiatives were hardly examples of liberal orthodoxy, and, in fact, Mr. Clinton achieved them by bucking prevailing tides.
But their success was overshadowed when Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary, gave an different cast to his Presidency with the unsuccessful bid for universal health care.
From the start, some inside the Administration argued that welfare policy should come before health care, that Mr. Clinton's 1992 pledge to "end welfare as we know it" was the signature issue that had drawn back the Reagan Democrats to the party. But Mr. Clinton not only moved forward with health care, he also put Mrs. Clinton in charge in an unprecedented and risky expansion of the role of the First Lady.
For months, a task force led by Mrs. Clinton drafted the plan in secret, producing a 240,000-word bill and alienating crucial Democrats and interest groups. Even so, there was a moment when Republican Congressional leaders like Senator Bob Dole of Kansas endorsed the Administration's broad goal, and seemed willing to compromise.
But the White House held out for a whole loaf while opposition built, and Republicans and interest groups from insurance to small business pilloried the measure as the very symbol of big government run amok. By September 1994, it was dead.
Mr. Clinton had already styled his Presidency as an exercise in domestic policy-making, and health care became the issue that most defined that effort and consumed his energy and public attention. He spoke constantly of the need to extend coverage to the tens of millions of Americans without it.
So when the effort failed, it became an emblem of the potential failure of his entire Presidency before his term was even half over. Republicans leaped at the chance to cast public unease about the policy as far broader distaste about the whole notion of Federal activism, and rode the issue into control of Congress. Now, for all his defense of Medicare, Mr. Clinton seems prepared to eventually endorse a budget plan that makes virtually no stab at all at extending coverage.
When Mr. Clinton belatedly unveiled a welfare plan to make good on his campaign pledge, it envisioned Government jobs for welfare recipients willing but unable to find work. This gave a liberal tinge to his campaign vow to limit welfare recipients to two years of benefits.
After the repudiation of the 1994 midterm elections, Mr. Clinton pivoted once again.
 
A Series of Apologies
Second-Guessing Puzzles Supporters
In months of soul-searching, consultations with historians and most important, late-night conversations with Dick Morris, the political strategist with whom he has had a relationship across his career, Mr. Clinton grew certain that he had allowed himself to become the captive of the Democratic barons of Congress.
So he returned to the middle-class tax cut and in June, causing confusion in the White House ranks, decided to embrace the Republican goal of a balanced budget. Mr. Clinton also repudiated elements of his own record. At a Texas fund-raising dinner in October, he appeared to have second thoughts about the deficit reduction package that was one if his achievements of 1993.
"There's probably people in this room still mad at me about that budget because you think I raised your taxes too much," he said. "Well, it might surprise you to know that I think I raised them too much, too." He blamed the Congress for forcing his hand, prompting an enraged response from Democrats who had, in fact, fought for fewer taxes and backed him reluctantly.
Weeks later, the President told the neo-conservative author Ben Wattenberg that his welfare plan of 1994 was too lenient. And while Mr. Clinton now plans to veto a Republican welfare bill because of cuts in assistance to disabled children and in welfare recipients' entitlement to Medicaid, his aides say he may yet sign off on a compromise plan that ends the 60-year-old guarantee of Federal aid for poor women and children.
Mr. Clinton's second-guessing of himself has been puzzling to supporters. "If you ask me, he doesn't have a damn thing to apologize for," said Paul Begala, one of Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign strategists.
Some of the apologizing was tactical. Under Mr. Morris's tutelage in 1982, Mr. Clinton apologized for much of his record as governor when he came back from defeat in 1980 to win a new term.
It is also true that Mr. Clinton has always been quick to parse his own problems in public, whether in sharing his childhood family traumas, or musing aloud on whether the nation might be in a "funk."
But it is clear that voters find this tendency unsettling, as the President himself acknowledged in an interview with People magazine on the perils of public introspection, even as he indulged in yet another burst of it.
"Al Gore gave me some great advice," Mr. Clinton said. "He may kill me for this -- but he said, 'You can analyze a problem and calculate all of its aspects, but you also can feel what is right about a course of action. The American people pay you to think, but they want to know how you feel. And you make a big mistake if you spend too much time letting them see how you think rather than letting them know how you feel on what's right or wrong.' "
And so Mr. Clinton deliberately set out this year to take stands on moral and social issues. He discovered the power of Presidential oratory and delivered a series of speeches, with topics ranging across the field of social and cultural issues that the Republicans have sought to make their own, from school prayer to violence in the media, to affirmative action. In each case, he sought to reach across sharp political dividing lines by telling Americans they could find "common ground."
Mr. Clinton has also used a string of foreign policy successes to portray himself as a peacemaker.
This pose is intended to send a subliminal message to Mr. Clinton's doubters that the very character traits that worry them -- Mr. Clinton's desire to conciliate, his constant compromising -- can be the core components of an effective leadership style when combined with a willingness to use force.
His aides say Mr. Clinton has become more comfortable with his role as commander in chief since the early days when he backed away from talk about employing air strikes in the war in Bosnia and brought the U.S.S. Harlan County, which had been sent on a mission to pave the way for the return of Mr. Aristide, back from Haiti when armed thugs appeared on the docks.
But even Mr. Clinton's recent tentative success in the Balkans came after months of fitful temporizing and avoidance. Only after limited air strikes prompted hostage-taking and the prospect of a NATO withdrawal that would have forced Washington to send troops, did the President push for strikes in reprisal.
 
Crucial Challenges
Bosnia, Whitewater And Economy Loom
For now Mr. Clinton's strategy of co-opting Republican issues like the balanced budget while fighting to preserve his own priorities on shrinking turf, has borne enough fruit that Republican strategists worry openly about the difficulty of finding a compelling rationale for a campaign against him.
"There's some uncertainty among Republicans about how to go after Clinton," said Bill Kristol, the Republican theoretician who was chief of staff to Vice President Dan Quayle. "It's not like 1994, when he had proposed this horrifying health care plan and ludicrous crime bill and tax increase and one could pose to the country a clear choice against big government liberalism."
At the same time, important nods to liberals -- from proposing an increase in the minimum wage, to making a stand on Medicare, to insisting on maintaining affirmative action programs in the face of calls to scale them back -- have staved off a challenge from the left.
Mr. Clinton has succeeded so well at this task that he now appears certain not to face a fight for the nomination -- an unusual occurrence in the fractious Democratic Party.
But crucial challenges persist. Mr. Clinton is at last creeping up to a 50 percent job approval rating in public opinion polls, but throughout his term he has been hard pressed to expand his electoral base beyond the 43 percent that was enough to let him win in a three-way race in 1992, yet smaller than the vote that Michael S. Dukakis lost with in 1988.
Many of the President's own aides are frank about the difficulty of piecing together an electoral college majority and holding on to the big industrial states he needs -- like Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey -- especially in a two-way race.
"If you just look at the map, we can't win," one aide said on the condition of anonymity, overstating the case just a bit for effect.
A year is a lifetime in politics, and pitfalls loom, whether they be Bosnia, Whitewater or the state of the economy. Will there or won't there be a budget agreement and who will the public consider the victor?
As it has been from the beginning of his political career, Mr. Clinton's biggest vulnerability may yet be the public's lingering unease about who he is and what he stands for.
In recent polls, his overall unfavorable ratings among the public have declined a bit from their peak at the time of the Republican Congressional victories a year ago. But they still remain in precarious balance with his favorable ratings, with 44 percent in the most recent New York Times/ CBS News Poll this month expressing a favorable view to 37 percent with an unfavorable view.
"This is the central paradox of Clinton," said Michael Beschloss, a historian of modern politics. "One side is this enormously supple, malleable, versatile, mercurial political figure who is able to make and remake and remake himself in order to benefit from changing political situations and environments."
He continued, "The other side of it is that this very suppleness, and his willingness to change his rhetoric and his tactics -- as helpful as they are in restoring his political fortunes -- they undercut his ability to establish a following for himself among the American people and claim a mandate for a second term."
The President's own aides confess they are unsure what shape a second term would take, whether Mr. Clinton would be buoyed by the election of more Democrats to Congress and feel free to expand his priorities again, or whether he would remain an accommodator. So far, he has fallen short of the promise of 1992, which was that he could expand his plurality, with backing from Ross Perot's supporters and Republicans, into a moderate, centrist coalition that could govern for years to come.
Should he win, Mr. Clinton would become the first Democrat since Franklin D. Roosevelt to win two full terms in the White House, breaking the quarter-century pattern of Republican dominance in Presidential politics. Even if he wins a second term, Mr. Clinton will still become the youngest former President since Theodore Roosevelt, and doubtless some kind of restless presence on the political scene for years to come.
"Most Presidents, when they complete their second term, retire and write books," mused Skip Rutherford, a friend of Mr. Clinton's. "Bill Clinton may write books but I don't think he'll retire. I can't see him sitting on a front porch somewhere."
 
The Contenders
 
TUESDAY -- Senator Bob Dole of Kansas.
 
WEDNESDAY -- Senator Phil Gramm of Texas.
 
THURSDAY -- Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana.
 
FRIDAY -- Former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee.
 
SATURDAY -- Representative Robert K. Dornan, Alan L. Keyes and Morry Taylor.
 
SUNDAY -- Patrick J. Buchanan.
 
YESTERDAY -- Steve Forbes.
 
TODAY -- President Clinton.
 
A future article will examine the political landscape at the start of the 1996 political season.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: After a tumultuous year, President Clinton enters 1996 on the rebound. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Mr. Clinton's approval ratings are among the highest of his Presidency. He took a day off from business to relax yesterday at Hilton Head, S.C. (Reuters) (pg. C34)
 
Chronology/Graph: "CHRONOLOGY: How Clinton Did in the Polls . . ." tracks approval and disapproval ratings of the way Bill Clinton handles his job as President, based on polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News from February 1993 through December 9-11, 1995.
 
". . . And a Chronology of His Term"
 
1993
 Jan. 29 -- Mr. Clinton temporarily suspends the discharge of homosexuals from the military.
 Feb. 11 -- Mr. Clinton nominates Janet Reno as Attorney General, after Zoe Baird and Judge Kimba M. Wood withdraw.
 April 3 -- Mr. Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin have their first meeting.
 April 19 -- After a 51-day standoff, about 80 members of the Branch Davidian cult die in a fire that started as Federal agents assaulted their compound in Waco, Texas.
 May 19 -- The White House fires the seven-person staff of the travel office alleging shoddy accounting practices, mismanagement and possible overbilling.
 July 19 -- Mr. Clinton announces that homosexuals can serve in the military, but only if they do not engage in homosexual behavior and remain quiet about their sexual identity.
 July 20 -- Vincent Foster, Jr., Mr. Clinton's deputy legal counsel, commits suicide.
 Aug.5-6 -- Congress passes Mr. Clinton's budget plan. The plan cuts spending, increases taxes and reduces Federal budget deficits through 1998 by a total of $496 billion.
 Sept. 13 -- Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization sign a peace accord on the White House lawn.
 Sept. 22 -- Mr. Clinton unveils his health-care reform proposals to Congress.
 Oct. 3 -- Mr. Clinton orders additional troops to Somalia following a battle in which 18 Americans die.
 Nov. 17 and 20 -- Congress passes legislation to implement the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 
1994
 Jan. 20 -- A independent counsel is named to investigate the Clintons' personal and political finances and their businessess dealings in the 1980's, including their role in the Whitewater Development Corporation.
 Jan. 25 -- Mr. Clinton delivers his first State of the Union address, promising a forceful effort to enact health care reform.
 June 27 -- Mr. Clinton announces an extensive White House staff shake-up. He removes Thomas F. McLarty as chief of staff and replaces him with Leon E. Panetta, the budget director.
 Aug. 26 -- Congressional leaders and the White House all but concede that health care reform is dead for the year.
 Sept. 19 -- After a last-minute agreement averts an invasion, United States troops peacefully enter Haiti to enforce the return of the exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
 Oct. 7 -- Mr. Clinton announces that Navy and Marine forces will be deployed to the Persian Gulf area in response to a buildup of Iraqi troops along its border with Kuwait.
 Oct. 21 -- The United States and North Korea sign an agreement requiring that North Korea dismantle its nuclear-development program.
 Nov. 8 -- Congressional elections. Republicans take over the House and Senate for the first time in 40 years.
 Dec. 6 -- Webster L. Hubbell, the former Associate Attorney General and the man President Clinton had described as his closest friend, pleads guilty to stealing hundreds of thousands of dollars from his former law firm.
Dec. 8 -- Mr. Clinton signs a sweeping global tariff-cutting trade pact approved by Congress.
 
1995
 Jan. 31 -- Mr. Clinton sidesteps Congress and uses his own emergency authority to lend up to $20 billion to Mexico to keep it from defaulting on Government-issued bonds.
 Feb. 2 -- Mr. Clinton chooses Dr. Henry W. Foster Jr. as Surgeon General to replace Dr. Joycelyn Elders, who was forced to resign in December.
 Feb. 6 -- Mr. Clinton sends to Congress his $1.6 trillion budget plan for fiscal year 1996. It calls for modest spending cuts, some tax relief and $200 million deficits through the end of the decade.
 March 23 -- Mr. Clinton defends the concept of affirmative action and outlines plans to review existing Federal programs.
 April 19 -- A Federal building in Oklahoma City is bombed, killing XX.
 June 13 Mr. Clinton presents a new budget proposal, that calls balancing the budget in 10 years.
 June 22 -- Dr. Foster's nomination as Surgeon General dies when Senate Democrats fail for a second time to end a Republican filibuster.
 June 29 -- Congress passes a budget resolution that promises to balance the budget in seven years by cuts in social programs, Medicare and Medicaid while cutting taxes by $245 billion.
 July 19 -- Mr. Clinton offers a vigorous reaffirmation of the goals and results of affirmative action saying it has been good for America.
 Oct. 19 -- Mr. Clinton says that the Republican plan to balance the budget by 2002 is an attainable goal, but adds that cuts in education, health and environmental programs must be scaled back to ensure his cooperation.
 Nov. 14 -- The Federal Government suspends "non-essential services". An estimated 800,000 Federal workers are furloughed after Mr. Clinton and Congress cannot agree on an interim spending measure.
 Nov. 19 -- Congress and the White House agree on a stopgap spending measure that re-opens government operations through Dec. 15.
 Nov. 21 -- The presidents of three rival Balkan states initial an agreement a peace agreement that ends nearly four years of war in Bosnia.
 Dec. 16 -- After weeks of fruitless negoations on a balanced budget, portions of the Government shut down for the second time. (pg. C34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Chronology; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); HAITI (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOMALIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MEXICO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (74%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SURGEON GENERAL (84%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (84%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); HAITI (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOMALIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MEXICO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (74%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (52%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MEDICARE (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); MEDICAID (52%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



39 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Crown Prince to Take Over While King Rests

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 1

 BODY:
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia handed over authority today to his half-brother, Crown Prince Abdullah, saying he needed time to rest.
A royal decree directed the Crown Prince "to take over management of government affairs while we enjoy rest and recuperation." The King's order did not specify how long he expected to be absent. 
 Saudi officials stressed that the King was not abdicating, but was taking a medical leave to recover from exhaustion. King Fahd, 74, was taken to a hospital emergency room a little more than a month ago, and the Saudi Government has maintained that he was suffering the effects of his heavy workload, persistently denying Western officials' accounts that the King had suffered a stroke.
The King was released from the hospital on Dec. 7, with assurances to the public that his health had improved. While he was shown on television receiving members of the royal family and senior officials, King Fahd has left all business of government to the Crown Prince for weeks, officials have said.
The Crown Prince has been leading Cabinet meetings, and he represented Saudi Arabia at the recent meeting in Oman of leaders of Gulf Cooperation Council countries.
Saudi Arabian businessmen said the transition was smooth and elicited no outward signs of dissent within the royal family. Crown Prince Abdullah, 72, was long ago designated to succeed King Fahd. Third in line for the throne is Prince Sultan, the Defense Minister and a full brother of the King from the Sudeiri clan.
Crown Prince Abdullah, while not a member of the powerful Sudeiri clan of King Fahd, has his own power base among the large Bedouin tribes of Saudi Arabia and in the 57,000-member National Guard that he commands. In addition he is first deputy to the Prime Minister, who is the King.
In Arab circles, the Crown Prince is known to be an Arab nationalist who strongly favors unity among Arab countries. He maintains close personal ties with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria and has spoken a number of times of the need to rebuild the cohesion among Arab countries that was shattered by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait five years ago.
Western diplomats suggest that the Crown Prince may be less enthusiastic than King Fahd to endorse any and all American policies in the region.
However, Crown Prince Abdullah is likely to follow the broad outlines of established Saudi policy, which rest on maintaining a strategic alliance with the United States and friendly Arab countries to contain both Iraq and Iran.
In the last few years King Fahd has initiated a number of changes in government, intended to introduce new figures in some 250 top positions of administration and education.
In 1992, political and economic reforms reached the royal family circle when the King said future rulers should be chosen from among the ranks of the grandsons as well as the sons of King Abdelaziz ibn Saud, the founder of the Kingdom. That opened opportunities for the younger princes.
But even then, Saudi officials said the succession in the immediate future would be by seniority.
Crown Prince Abdullah's stewardship will be challenged by a persistent deficit in the Saudi budget that has resulted from a large drop in oil prices during the last decade. Government austerity measures have not succeeded in closing the gap.
Government spending increased dramatically during the Persian Gulf war, when some 500,000 troops made their base on Saudi territory at a cost to the Saudi economy of approximately $100 billion. The result has forced the country to borrow domestically as well as internationally. The country's financial reserves, once ranked at $100 billion, are all but spent.
The Gulf war also ushered in a form of domestic dissent, mostly from Islamic fundamentalists, challenging the authority of the royal family. Hundreds have been jailed, then released, but leading dissident figures remain imprisoned, leading many of their adherents to acts of increasing violence.
Last year a car bombing near the headquarters of the National Guard, commanded by the Crown Prince and trained by the United States military, killed six people and wounded scores of others. No suspects have been uncovered in the resulting investigation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); OMAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); OMAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ROYAL FAMILY HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); STROKES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLITICS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); SICK LEAVE (56%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (51%); 

PERSON: FAHD (KING); ABDULLAH, FAHAD BIN (PRINCE); IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



40 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
Middle Age Catches Up With the Me Generation

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
THOSE who argue with the assertion that demography is destiny, ponder this: the generation that once refused to trust anyone over 30 is turning 50.
Yesterday began a fateful countdown: a member of the baby-boom generation is marking a 50th birthday every seven to eight seconds every day for the next 18 years. That's more than 10,000 people who were born from 1946 through 1964 crossing over daily into the mature market. 
 "The primary consumers in America are about to become the middle-aged," said Ken Dychtwald, president and chief executive of Age Wave Inc., a research and publishing company in Emeryville, Calif., that specializes in the demographics of aging.
The 76 million baby boomers transformed the nation as marketers raced to cater to their every want, need or whim. Disposable diapers, Barbie dolls, sugary cereals, mini-vans, bottled water, designer jeans -- it's an exhaustive (and exhausting) list.
"From the moment the first squalling boomer was born, they have been changing markets by the sheer force of their numbers," said Stephani Cook, executive vice president and strategic planning director at Lowe & Partners/SMS in New York, an ad agency owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
The graying of America will be such that by 2005, boomers will represent a majority of the population between 50 and 74. There is a widespread belief that the distinctive characteristics setting boomers apart from preceding generations will lead them to act differently from people now 50 or older.
Those among the elderly now "are more conscious of their duties and obligations to others and are more willing to sacrifice self-interest for the good of you name it -- children, family, country," said Cheryl Russell, editor in chief of New Strategist Publications in Ithaca, N.Y., which publishes demographic reference books for business.
By comparison, she added, "the dominant trait of boomers is a heightened sense of individualism, that at any moment they're thinking of, about and for themselves."
Yet boomers have confounded demographic forecasts that they would veer from the behavior patterns of previous generations. Remember all those predictions the boomers would not marry, would not have children, would not move to the suburbs? For the most part, they have; the difference is they made those life-style changes later than their parents did. So there is some validity to the notion that aging boomers might not be all that different in their older years from their progenitors.
"Whether you like Mick Jagger or Count Basie," Mr. Dychtwald said, "when you roll into your 50's you're worrying about arthritis, osteoporosis and enlarged prostate."
And there is the danger that boomers, for the first time in their lives, might not find themselves front and center when it comes to the forces effecting change.
"There's a good chance we're going to become old and irrelevant," said Watts Wacker, the resident futurist at SRI International, a strategic research and consulting company in Westport, Conn.
The rise of what Mr. Wacker described as "the information economy," fueled by forces like PC's and interactive media, threatens to consign boomers to the backwaters because "we're so complacent."
"We will become marginalized if we don't keep up," he warned.
Still, the chameleon-like powers of the boomers to bend society to their will by adapting to new circumstances -- switching, for instance, from marathon running to race-walking to low-impact aerobics -- suggest the generation will remake the so-called golden years in its own image.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (82%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; PERSONAL COMPUTERS BABY BOOMERS (91%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); AGING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); AGING TRENDS (75%); PUBLISHING (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (74%); BOTTLED WATER (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (59%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); OSTEOPOROSIS (50%); PROSTATE DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICK JAGGER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



41 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
Recovery in California Wears a New Costume

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
CALL it the tinsel recovery.
After a vicious recession that left California reeling long after the rest of the country was growing again, the state is back on its feet and appears likely to surpass national growth rates in 1996. 
 It is not, however, a traditional California recovery: this time one of the principal engines of growth is not the aerospace business or housing construction. It is Tinseltown, the booming entertainment industries clustered around this city.
The University of California at Los Angeles has estimated that personal income and job growth in California will run at nearly twice the national levels in 1996, and that a major contributor will be the array of businesses involved in the media and entertainment industries. Other major contributors will be international trade and tourism. The Bank of America has forecast gross domestic product expansion in the state of 2.5 percent in 1996, up from 1.1 percent in 1995.
"The economy here is gaining momentum now, even as the rest of the country decelerates a little bit," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at the First Interstate Bank.
Take a look at Burbank, the center of what is sometimes called the media triangle. With the Walt Disney and Warner Brothers studios expanding there, along with scores of smaller production companies and suppliers, office vacancy rates are a mere 5 percent, according to the CB Commercial Real Estate Group, a large broker. Rents average about $28 a square foot.
Compare that with downtown Los Angeles, where the vacancy rate is about 17 percent and rents are a little less than $20 a square foot.
For the first time, employment in the entertainment industries surpassed aerospace in 1995, and economists predict the gap is likely to widen. According to state data, there were 151,000 jobs in the motion picture industry as of November 1995, compared with 130,000 in aerospace.
But Jack Kyser, the chief economist for the Economic Development Corporation here, said he estimated real employment in the entertainment industries at double the official figures because of the large number of independent workers and small suppliers in related businesses.
Entertainment, Mr. Kyser estimates, now accounts for about $36 billion of economic activity in this area, a substantial portion of Los Angeles County's annual economic output of $275 billion; aerospace accounts for $30 billion of activity here.
The U.C.L.A. forecast anticipates that employment in the entertainment industries throughout California will grow 16.3 percent in 1996. Aerospace and manufacturing, on the other hand, will be flat.
"This is a much different mix than we're used to in recoveries in California," Tom K. Lieser, an economist at the university, said. "It's services-led, mostly entertainment. Those are high-paying jobs, but they are a little riskier. This is not lifetime employment by any means."
And while many other traditionally strong sectors, like housing, remain weak, they are no longer affecting the recovery. "This started out as a very modest recovery, and then it accelerated a bit in 1995 and will accelerate a little more in 1996," Howard Roth, a senior economist at the Bank of America, said. "It's gotten past the stage where you call it a modest recovery now."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Sign of Recovery" tracks California's nonfarm employment since 1991. (Source: Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA CB COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP INC (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF COMMERCE (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); WARNER BROTHERS ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; HOUSING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (88%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES JACK KYSER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



42 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
In New York Region, Stirrings of a Revival

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
FOR a region that has long been treading a line between recession and anemic growth, 1995 was hardly a turnaround year in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. With layoffs cutting deeply into banks, insurance companies, military bases and government agencies, total employment rose less than 1 percent.
But after three years as an also-ran, left far behind in a swift national expansion, economists point to stirrings of renewed strength -- especially in New York City -- that might become more pronounced in 1996. 
 Indeed, the bright spots are centered in the city. The bull market is promising rich year-end bonuses for many executives on Wall Street, with some predicting increases of 30 percent or more. Employment in the securities industry in the city, reduced by layoffs early in the year, began growing in the summer and increased by 1 percent, to 150,400, by October.
Manhattan hotels and restaurants benefited from a weak dollar that attracted visitors from abroad and from a burst of tourism over all. The New York Convention and Visitors Bureau estimated that 24.8 million people visited the city in 1995, a 1 percent increase from 1994.
And analysts say a spurt of new developments -- like the Chelsea Piers sports complex and several new megastores, including Barnes & Noble bookstores -- reflect a renewed confidence that may not yet be fully reflected in employment or spending.
"This was the best year in recent memory for New York City -- certainly since 1987 -- and what is good for the city is good for the surrounding economies," Irwin L. Kellner, chief economist at the Chemical Bank, said.
The upturn transcends most routine economic yardsticks, he said, and is being helped by factors like the city's reduced crime rate, which has lifted the confidence of many, and a surge in demand for small rental apartments, suggesting an influx of young professionals.
In New York City, for example, employment and retail sales gains outpaced the rest of the region last year, particularly in recent months. Federal data also show that employment in the city was up by 21,600 jobs, to 3.3 million, at the end of October, compared with a year earlier, and that the biggest increase -- 13,000 jobs -- came in a two-month surge that began in September. Retail sales in the city also rose briskly, increasing 5.4 percent in the first nine months of the year, according to an analysis by Alan G. Hevesi, the city Comptroller. In the corresponding period a year earlier, sales rose only 1.5 percent.
Some experts, however, contend that the signs of improvement are too scattered to overcome the financial worries of many in the region for whom the distinction between recession and slow growth remains hard to discern.
According to a study by Nicholas Perna, chief economist for the Fleet Financial Group in Hartford, the region's steep downturn from 1989 to 1992 lowered employment by 580,000 jobs in New York State, 262,000 in New Jersey and 165,000 in Connecticut. Since then, he said, New Jersey has managed to regain 67 percent of its 1989 total; New York 32 percent and Connecticut only 19 percent.
The region's steep recession was attributed to many factors -- a real estate boom gone bust, the exodus of some corporate headquarters to the South and the loss of some jobs to Mexico because of the North American Free Trade Agreement. But most analysts say these broad-based losses were overcome by other engines of growth.
Although Connecticut's $29,044 in per capita income is the highest of any state -- far higher than the national per capita income of $21,699 -- the state stands out as the region's laggard. For the year ended in October, it lost 1,500 jobs, a drop of a tenth of 1 percent in total employment, making it the only state in the region to have a loss.
In Hartford, the home of several large insurance companies, a wave of merger announcements involving concerns like the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, Travelers and Aetna Life, were accompanied by more than 2,000 layoffs. And the closing of the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in New London, Conn., also cut deeply into employment.
In New York City and its suburbs, bank employment was cut sharply because of several mergers. More jobs are expected to be lost with the pending merger of the Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan. New Jersey's huge chemical industry shed plants and workers, as did other manufacturers in the region.
Despite signs that New York City's economy is now the region's strongest, real estate executives say home and apartment sales in the city have dropped. Demand for offices rose slightly in most of the region. According to Cushman & Wakefield, a commercial brokerage firm, office vacancies dropped in midtown Manhattan to 12.3 percent in October from 12.8 percent a year earlier.
Vacancies also declined in lower Manhattan, Westchester County, Fairfield County and northern New Jersey, the company said, but demand fell on Long Island, with vacancies rising to 16.4 percent from 14.2 percent.


GRAPHIC: Since January 1992, regional job growth has triled national growth. In New Jersey, where the recovery has been strongest, two-thirds of the jobs lost during the state's recession were recovered by October. In New York, the figure was closer to one-third while in Connecticut, it was less than one-fifth.
Graph: "The Regional Recovery"
 Graph tracks job growth in the U.S., New Jersey, New York and Connecticut from 1992 through October 1995. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Fleet Financial) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); BKS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); BARNES & NOBLE INC (55%); CHEMICAL BANK (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (87%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); CITIES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); RETAILERS (70%); BOOKSTORES (70%); TOURISM (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (51%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; KELLNER, IRWIN L LAWRENCE W KELLNER (66%); LAWRENCE W KELLNER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



43 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
The South: Prosperity With an Asterisk

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

 BODY:
FROM the perspective of the bricklayers working on the Olympic Stadium and other projects in Atlanta, things could not be better.
A tight labor market has driven up the bricklayers' wages 20 percent the last year, to $20 an hour, with abundant overtime. For them, the Games have become the fullest flowering of the new South. 
 From the perspective of apparel workers in Cedartown, Ga., less than an hour-and-a-half drive away, it is the same old South, or worse. Hundreds of sewers at the Arrow Shirt Company, who were making $5 to $7.50 an hour, were dismissed when the plant closed in October and the jobs moved to Latin America.
Although Atlanta, as host of the 1996 Olympic Games, might be a special case, it is only the leader of a region favored by many companies. A number of Atlanta wannabes, including Charlotte, N.C., and Nashville, are having their own booms.
Nashville has such a labor shortage, with its unemployment rate near 3 percent, that the owners of the Opryland Hotel bought another hotel nearby just to house its staff. Charlotte has become the nation's third-largest banking center, and in South Carolina, the arrival of European companies, including BMW, has produced Oktoberfest celebrations patterned on those in Germany. But the same mobile economy that favors Atlanta and its smaller sisters is destroying the low-paid jobs that sustain many small towns.
On average, economists say, the South's economic growth was greater than that of the nation last year and will continue to be this year, especially in Florida, Georgia and North Carolina, some of the region's largest, most urbanized states.
Although some fear that as the South becomes wealthier its cost advantages will erode, economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta say that the region's attractions -- low heating costs, low taxes, few unions and a minimum of local and state regulations -- are enduring. The South's real wages may have caught up with the nation's, but a lower cost of living means that nominal wages, what employers actually pay, have remained lower, said Thomas J. Cunningham, the senior economist at the Atlanta Fed. "That suggests the South is going to keep growing for a long period of time," he said. From 1983 to 1993, the 12 states of the Southeast had the nation's most rapid growth in total personal income -- 3 percent annually, compared with the national average of 2.4 percent, a recent Commerce Department report said. That growth is projected to slow only to 2.5 percent through 2005.
In Atlanta, construction executives say the Olympic Games' payoff is hardly limited to the $600 million Olympic Stadium, athlete housing and other buildings. A number of other projects that might have been completed years later, if at all, have been finished ahead of the Olympic sites, including a renovation of the airport, expansions by many hotels and an overhaul of the arts center.
Although business people at one time feared a post-Olympics letdown, economists now expect only minor slowing for perhaps half a year. The cost of labor and materials has risen so much that those who can postpone their projects have done so, said Larry Gellerstedt 3d, the chief executive of the Beers Construction Company, Atlanta's largest contractor and a subsidiary of Beers Inc.
Atlanta's greatest payoff from the Olympic Games might come in the longer term. With the same zeal that won Atlanta the Games, the city and state's business recruiters are using the Olympics to attract yet more attention to the state.
While other recent Olympic sites -- Los Angeles, Seoul and Barcelona -- tried to increase tourism, Lynn Pitts, a Georgia Power executive, is working with state and local agencies and other companies on pulling in more plants, warehouses and offices through what they call Operation Legacy.
They are inviting 226 business executives from other states and nations for four-day tours before the Games, to view sites, mingle with athletes, dine with the Governor at his mansion and hear that Georgia is the world's best place to put a business. During the Games, 175 top executives and their spouses will receive even better treatment.
Mr. Pitts's goal is 20 new factories or other businesses, with 6,000 new jobs. Operation Legacy has already captured more than 1,000 jobs with four new plants or offices, he said.
At the same time, the South's loss of apparel jobs appears to be accelerating. Labor leaders say the free trade pact with Mexico and the peso's devaluation have pushed more garment makers to open Mexican plants, although some economists say these plants would otherwise have gone to Asia.
That may be cold comfort for Belle McFall and 350 other workers who in October lost their jobs at the Cedartown plant owned by Arrow Shirt, a unit of Bidermann International.
Her options? "Jobs are few and far between here," she said. "I've thought about going back to school, but I've been out of school for 37 years." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (71%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (85%); ARROW SHIRT CO (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FORECASTS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; LABOR; TAXATION; HEATING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); OVERTIME (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); URBANIZATION (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); EROSION (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



44 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
Little Pessimism From the Executive Suite

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
AS everyone knows, you can never satisfy the boss. Business was strong at many of America's big companies in 1995, and it is looking as good or better for 1996. Profits were bountiful, and this year they are again expected to outpace the consensus forecast for economic growth of 2 to 2.5 percent.
But America's chief executives want more. 
 They want lower interest rates. "If they come down 100 to 200 basis points, this economy will really take off," J. Willard Marriott Jr., chairman and chief executive of the Marriott Corporation, said several days before the Federal Reserve cut rates 25 basis points -- or hundredths of a percentage point -- last month.
"The economy could grow 4 percent to 5 percent without reigniting inflation," he added. "This old myth of the minute you have growth of over 3 percent you get inflation doesn't make sense."
Few executives, however, seem to be counting on the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, to bring down rates sharply. For now, they are basing their optimism on payroll numbers, income statistics, the low inflation rate and what is in their order books.
"We assume no decreases, but we are confident that 1996 is an election year," noted David R. Goode, chief executive of the Norfolk Southern Corporation, the big railroad. As a rule, the White House does everything in its power to produce a favorable economic climate in the months before the Presidential showdown.
The election will bolster some businesses directly. Media companies and advertising agencies are bound to benefit. In Chicago, Richard Notabaert, the chief executive of the Ameritech Corporation, is reveling in the prospect of putting in telephone, fax and computer modem lines for politicians, delegates, media people and others attending the Democratic National Convention there this summer.
Ameritech -- like other communications companies -- was already doing just fine. "People are making more calls, buying second phone lines, and 12-year-olds today want to get on the Web and communicate," Mr. Notabaert said. "People now see communications as just a given, not an expense, so if the regional economy stays strong, we'll see an upward trajectory in revenue growth."
Older industries cannot expect to be so buoyant, but they will probably rack up healthy growth.
From his office in Norfolk, Va., Mr. Goode gauges the industrial economy by watching rail-car loads. "We've seen some softening in the auto business, a little bit of softening in chemicals -- although that has come back lately -- and building and construction materials are a little weak," he said. "But that's all in comparison to a pretty strong last year and earlier this year."
"And when we talk to our customers, it looks like we'll get a recovery in 1996," he added. "This is a temporary slowdown in what has been a very robust economic climate."
"On a scale of 1 to 10, I'd give this economy a 9," said Thomas J. Usher, chief executive of the USX Corporation. "We were running at capacity in 1995, and we will in 1996, too."
The appetite for steel seems to cut across the industrial spectrum. "It's not concentrated -- the auto business is not as good as it was a year ago, but it's still good, construction looks pretty good, appliances are still strong and rail cars and barge cars are strong," Mr. Usher said.
Others offer similar reports. The entertainment economy keeps expanding, securities firms and other financial institutions are faring well and the outlook for health care and pharmaceuticals is healthy.
In retailing, "1996 will be a rerun of 1995," said David D. Glass, the chief executive of Wal-Mart Stores. "There's not a lot of real strength, but business is not bad."
Mr. Glass faults the merchandise, not the customers, however. "It's not so much that the customer isn't willing to buy or can't buy," he said. "But there's nothing new to buy to drive the business."
Meanwhile, shopping as recreation has lost its allure.
The new year "will see modest growth, low-single-digit growth in retail sales," Mr. Glass predicted.
If Mr. Glass is gloomy, however, Mr. Marriott is not. Many of the dollars going unspent in the malls are funneling into hotels, restaurants and other areas of the tourism business. "We just had our best fall since the early 1980's," Mr. Marriott said. "I think 1996 looks real good. I see no reason why there shouldn't be double-digit earnings growth."
In lodging, where Marriott manages hotels in all price categories, demand has finally caught up with supply. Companies, which cut back travel when the economy soured in the early 1990's, are sending people on the road again. Individuals are traveling more now, too.
Mr. Marriott believes that after raising prices 6 to 7 percent in 1995, the market can bear another, though lower, price increase in 1996.
That in itself is remarkable. Many chief executives envy the ability to raise prices once, let alone twice. Cars, industrial materials, consumer goods and food all encountered resistance from consumers when their prices were marked up.
If the view from these corner offices is correct, the current softness in the economy is temporary, as many companies finish working off inventories that grew too plentiful. Once inventories are back to normal, the economy is expected to resume its climb. The main worry of these captains of industry lies overseas, in the potential problems facing Japan, Europe and other American trading partners.
Their bottom line: if you liked 1995, you will like 1996. That's not bad, considering America's economic expansion turns five years old -- middle-aged, at best -- in April.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "People now see communications as just a given," says Richard Notabaert of Ameritech; "It looks like we'll get a recovery in 1996," says David R. Goode of Norfolk Southern. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NSC (NYSE) (82%); T (NYSE) (82%); MAR (NYSE) (71%); HST (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (82%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (82%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (71%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ; AMERITECH CORP; NORFOLK SOUTHERN NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (82%); AT&T INC (82%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (71%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ; AMERITECH CORP; NORFOLK SOUTHERN FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FORECASTS; INTEREST RATES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); STATISTICS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); TRAINS (65%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H; NOTABAERT, RICHARD; GOODE, DAVID R J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



45 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: TECHNOLOGY AND MEDIA;
Rough-and-Ready Time in the Internet Business

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
IF brilliant realizations really did appear as light bulbs flashing above people's heads, 1995 would have been an especially bright year for the information and telecommunications industry. Company after company came to understand that their futures were at least partly linked to the Internet.
Microsoft announced that it was redefining itself an Internet company. AT&T declared that it, too, wanted to be an Internet company. I.B.M. announced an ambitious Internet strategy. America Online set a new course for the Internet. 
 The awakening of the information and telecommunications giants means that even the most nimble of the Internet companies will have to be careful to avoid being trampled as the rush to cyberspace intensifies this year.
While companies like Netcom and PSINet, which recognized the potential of Internet access before most others, have earned the right to compete with AT&T and MCI, hundreds of smaller Internet service providers are looking for new partners, new markets, or new jobs, in part because of the expected competition from telephone and cable TV companies.
Even Netscape Communications, the poster child of the Internet industry, now faces direct competition from one of the most feared competitors of the information jungle: Microsoft, whose chairman, William H. Gates, pledged last month that the company would focus on making its software synonymous with the Internet.
Indeed, an Internet shakeout has started, several analysts said, and it is cutting across many industries.
"We see a lot of these guys dying or being acquired," said Stephen Auditore, president of Zona Research Inc. of Redwood City, Calif. Particularly vulnerable, he said, are "smaller companies focusing on one or two Internet-related widgets."
"The people who are going to prosper are the ones who sell technologies and products that help businesses integrate the Internet into all their operations, the so-called intranet," Mr. Auditore said.
Internet or intranet, "there's going to be a huge expansion in the size of the marketplace, and within that, a lot of dynamism," said Mark R. Anderson, president of Technology Alliance Partners, a software and telecommunications trends prediction company in Friday Harbor, Wash.
In other words, the expanding Internet market presents a lush environment in which new companies can emerge, but it will also attract some of the most carnivorous competitors in today's PC and telecommunications industries.
The competition in the Internet service provider business will be particularly nasty as the telephone companies enter the market, Mr. Anderson said.
But there will also be a shakeout among companies that make the Internet software known as Web browsers and Web servers, he said, "and once the telecommunications reform bill is signed, we'll see an acceleration of mergers among telcom and cable companies."
The proposed Nynex and Bell Atlantic partnership is just the first sign of things to come, several analysts agreed. The next phase will be increasing mergers of phone companies with cable TV companies, said Jerry Michalski, editor of Release 1.0, an information industry newsletter.
Traditional publishers and media businesses, meanwhile, have "over-invested in the Internet and put themselves in a new- media arms race," Mr. Michalski said.
And the Internet stampede could hit a bottleneck in 1996, said Allen Weiner of the market research company Dataquest Inc. Many companies that are building fancy World Wide Web applications, may find that consumers are unable to use them.
The most exciting new Internet applications, ones that deliver high-quality audio, video and two-way communications, require more network capacity, or bandwidth, than most consumers can get over phone lines with standard PC modems.
So while NBC, CNN, Sony and other so-called content providers are racing to develop dazzling new Internet services with promising multimedia tools like Sun Microsystems's Java, Microsoft's Internet Studio, and Macromedia's Shockwave, all but the most technically advanced consumers may be stuck on the sidelines.
A lack of bandwidth is hampering adoption of business-to-business Internet development, internal or intranet development and business-to-consumer development.
It is unclear whether the lack of cheap, reliable bandwidth is retarding consumer acceptance of electronic commerce, or whether it is the lack of compelling applications, or mistrust of computer security, or some combination of many factors.
It is clear, though, that while companies are stampeding to the Internet, consumers are watching.
"Electronic commerce really hasn't happened at home yet," said Nicholas Donatiello, president and chief executive of Odyssey L.P., a market research firm based in San Francisco that specializes in home entertainment.
In October, the most recent month in which a survey was taken, only 7 percent of American households with on-line service or Internet connections reported buying something electronically.
"That translates to roughly 600,000 U.S. households out of a universe of 96 million households," Mr. Donatiello said. "So, while electronic commerce at home is growing, it is still very, very small."
BUSINESSES seem to have a more optimistic outlook about the World Wide Web. At a recent conference held by Forrester Research Inc. in Boston, nearly half of the 216 corporate executives said their companies would use the Internet for business transactions in 1996, and 70 percent said they would do so by 1997.
Though prospects for new revenues from electronic commerce are small, the idea of saving money by streamlining operations through the Internet are promising.
Such optimism encouraged investors to pour billions of dollars into Internet stocks in the last half of 1995. Netscape, for example, amassed a market valuation of several billion dollars based on third-quarter 1995 revenues of about $20 million.
And it looks like the Internet hysteria will continue in 1996, even though the prospects of a shakeout are relatively high. Cybercash, a company that hopes to facilitate electronic payments on the Internet, recently filed for an initial public offering of two million shares, at an average of $16 a share, even though the company has no real expectation of generating any significant revenue until 1997.
"In effect, individuals are becoming venture capitalists for these new Internet companies, at a very steep price," said Andrew B. Whinston, a business professor at the University of Texas and co-author of a new book, "Frontiers of Electronic Commerce." "The thinking is that you can buy a dozen of these companies, and in the year 2002 most will be bankrupt -- but two or three will be tremendous winners." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INTERNET MICROSOFT CORP (84%); ZONA RESEARCH INC (66%); AOL INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNET

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNET & WWW (93%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INTRANETS (77%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); TRENDS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MERGERS (69%); INTERNET BROWSERS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); NETWORK SERVERS (62%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H BILL GATES (57%); BRADBURY H ANDERSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



46 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
In Washington, A Fight Hurts New Yorkers

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
AS usual, lots of lists have been drawn up looking back at the old year: top news stories, best books, worst films. The last thing we need is another list.
But anyone compelled to tote up the biggest victims of 1995 might want to consider the thousands of New Yorkers whose lives are still being turned upside down by the budgetary gamesmanship in Washington that has shut down much of the Government for weeks. A special nomination goes to the many small businesses, and their work staffs, that have received almost no attention while their livelihoods trickle down the drain because of their dependence on a practically nonexistent Federal apparatus. 
 We're talking about Francine Krieger, who owns Acme Passport Photographers, two floors below the United States Passport Agency, on 630 Fifth Avenue, just off Rockefeller Center. With the agency closed to all but supposedly life-and-death cases, Acme's film is severely underexposed these days.
At a nearby newsstand, Mahfuzul Karim says his income has been cut in half by the lack of passport traffic. A similar lament was heard yesterday from Mohammed Nadim Rahim, selling hot dogs and pretzels to a few foreign tourists who turned up at the ferry landing in Battery Park. It seems they had not read -- or their tour guides didn't bother to warn them -- that no boats have sailed from there to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island since mid-December.
"It's dead," Mr. Rahim said. "Today's a little better because it's New Year's, but most of the time there is no business."
It has been the same for Eddie Medina, who manages a store on lower Broadway across the street from 26 Federal Plaza. He specializes in fingerprinting and photography, catering to the thousands of people who usually flow through the Immigration and Naturalization Service offices. But with Immigration closed, "we're hurting bad," he said. "It's horrid. Lately, we've been letting employees take days off without pay."
ONE flight up, it's no better for George Fletcher, part owner of a translation service that depends on visa seekers streaming into Federal Plaza. Ditto for the fast-food restaurants along the same stretch of Broadway. And for Robert and Jodi Kaplan, who own a card and gift shop on the block and who stood by helplessly while their peak season, Christmas, was stolen from them, Grinch-like, by Congress and the White House.
If nothing else, the budgetary paralysis underlines how umbilically tied the local economy is to government at every level. All it takes to hurt thousands of New Yorkers in the pocket, instantly and seriously, is for a few Federal departments to stop working. And unlike furloughed Federal workers, who are being promised that forfeited income will eventually be restored, the Kaplans and Rahims of this city have no chance of recovering their losses.
Are they disgusted about it?
Do you really need to be told the answer?
"What they do in Washington, Democrat or Republican, is look out for No. 1," said Richard Witt, an Acme photographer with time on his hands. "No. 1 is not me or you. We're not even No. 2. The guy who said that first was Frank Zappa."
Eddie Medina has no doubt that cosmic issues are at stake in Washington. But he can't get over stories like the one about Newt Gingrich being peeved because President Clinton had forced him to use the rear exit on Air Force One after the return flight from Yitzhak Rabin's funeral. "If it's a personal vendetta, why should we suffer?" Mr. Medina said. "Let them hammer out their differences on their own time."
WHAT gets to him and others is the absence of any gesture in their direction from Washington that in effect says, Sorry for your troubles. The cavalier treatment fuels resentment among some New Yorkers who have been heard asking of late why they must pay full taxes for this period when the Government is not providing full services.
Good question. You don't need to be a gun-toting, Commie-hunting survivalist to have the thought cross your mind. You'll get no comfort, though, from Stephen Cerow, a tax lawyer in Manhattan who prefers pinstripes to camouflage.
"In the final analysis, this ain't a social contract," he said. "The tax law says that 'you, the citizen, will pony up a certain amount of your income to us.' Nowhere is it written that 'we, the Government, will give services in return.' Their obligation is minimal. Ours is complete."
In short, forget it -- this is a message that Mohammed Nadim Rahim absorbs while waiting gamely for the Statue of Liberty to reopen. "Every day, I wait," he said. "I hope and hope and hope. But there's no hope." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); FINGERPRINTING (72%); FAST FOOD (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); FERRIES (66%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (63%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE EDDIE MEDINA (64%); MOHAMMED NADIM RAHIM (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



47 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
Giving Business A Chance to Test The Wings of Deregulation

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
LAST year presented the vision. Is this one about to produce the reality?
As Congressional Republicans move into their second year in power, their campaign to hack away at mounds of Government regulations is likely to have its first tangible impact on business -- from Wall Street to Hollywood, from silicon to steel. 
 It is still unclear just how much of the Republican business agenda will become law, given President Clinton's threat to veto many measures and the added difficulties of grappling with election-year politics.
But it is hard to overstate the extent of the changes that Speaker Newt Gingrich and his band of fire-breathing Republicans have already pushed through the House of Representatives. One major deregulatory bill, which will make it harder for shareholders to sue corporations for securities fraud or misrepresentation, became law just before Christmas. And lawmakers, having devoted most of 1995 to fighting about the budget, may well spend much of 1996 in a struggle over limiting Government's role in monitoring business.
"Regulatory agencies have run amok and need to be reformed," said Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip and a leader of the deregulatory forces in Congress. "We have made great progress, but completing that agenda needs to be one of the top legislative priorities of the second session."
Not since the 1946 election, when Republicans last won control of both Houses, has business had a Congress more zealously determined to roll back Government regulation and let corporate America fly free. The House has already passed a bill that would eviscerate the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency and other regulatory agencies. Congressional proposals to open millions of acres of Federal wilderness land to logging and mining are at the center of the budget stalemate between Congress and the White House. Both chambers have voted to sweep away decades of restrictions on media and communications companies.
Now comes the crucial test: navigating roadblocks in the Senate, where the minority Democrats have more ability to block legislation than in the House, and muscling past veto threats from President Clinton.
"It's going to be difficult," said Jeffrey H. Joseph, vice president for domestic policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, one of the country's biggest lobbying groups for business. "Because of the political nature of the year, with all the elections going on, there are a lot of games that get played."
And not all efforts to rein in Government regulation are equally popular within the Republican majority. Many pro-business lawmakers, stung by criticism that they were bent on destroying the environment to help industry, voted against bills that proposed to chip away at certain environmental restrictions.
For all the uncertainty over the ultimate fate of the new agenda, however, the reversal of decades of accumulated regulation of industry promises to go far enough to have a major impact on many segments of business and society.
Just before Christmas, Congress overrode a veto by President Clinton of the securities-fraud bill, enacting a law to reshape the rules under which publicly held companies are accountable to shareholders. The new law will give companies more freedom to make predictions about their financial performance without being sued if the predictions turn out to be wrong. It will also make it harder for investors to recover losses, by limiting their ability to seek damages from lawyers, accountants and others charged with "aiding and abetting" a company's misrepresentations. And it will require judges to decide whether a lawsuit was "frivolous"; if the judge determined that it was, that could expose aggrieved investors to potentially severe financial penalties for unsubstantiated claims.
Meanwhile, despite some unexpected intramural dissent among House Republicans, most experts say that Congress will at some point this year pass a sweeping telecommunications bill that would free telephone, cable television and media companies from scores of restrictions on the businesses they could enter.
That is only the beginning. A "regulatory reform" bill that would block new environmental, health and public safety regulations unless they ran the gantlet of a cost-benefit analysis has passed the House. A similar measure has stalled in the Senate, although Republicans will almost certainly push it again.
A "property rights" bill, passed by the House and pending in the Senate, would make it vastly more expensive for the Government to enforce existing environmental laws, like those that protect wetlands or endangered species. Washington would be required to compensate landowners for declines in property values that resulted from new regulations.
The scope of this activity goes beyond any particular law or regulation. The changes coursing through Congress would alter the basic calculus by which the Government has conducted most of its efforts to protect the environment, to improve health and to promote safety. Gone would be absolute mandates to achieve particular goals, whether reducing the level of pollutants in the air and water or setting a specific standard for coal dust in mines. Instead, Government regulators would be required to document in painstaking detail how the benefits of a new rule would be greater than the costs and to show that business had been allowed to meet any target by the least burdensome method.
There is no commonly accepted estimate of the real costs -- and benefits -- to business and society of Government regulation. Thomas Hopkins, a professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology, has estimated that the combined cost of regulation in America is about $581 billion a year. Others say the number is much lower -- though almost certainly in the tens of billions of dollars -- and that many regulations have positive effects that outweigh the extra burden.
The goal of deregulation, business groups say, is to bring greater rationality, establish clearer priorities and allow more flexibility in the way that companies satisfy Government requirements. "A great deal of this has to do with the waste of resources," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. Regulators, he said, mistakenly seek a "nirvana" of zero risk at work and home and unattainable purity for the environment, food and health care.
Critics of the Republicans' deregulatory agenda say it would produce many more problems than it would solve. "It would create massive bureaucracy, massive expense and would give companies opportunities to stall things in court," said Gary Bass, head of OMB Watch, a nonprofit group that has organized a rough alliance of environmental groups, labor unions and consumer organizations to oppose the mostly pro-business efforts.
In some cases, however, it is business itself that has been most instrumental in defending what some call government red tape. Insurance companies essentially blocked the most serious effort in years to let banks, insurers and other financial institutions compete in each others' markets. Long-distance telephone companies mounted an intense lobbying campaign to keep the regional Bell companies out of their business, and may yet try to stop the telecommunications bill if it remains in its current form.
But for the most part business groups have been instrumental in pushing the new agenda. Lobbyists representing basic manufacturing and the chemical industry were recruited to help rewrite parts of the Clean Water Act and the Endangered Species Act. Telecommunications and media companies were invited to special closed-door forums with lawmakers, who explicitly asked for suggestions about how Washington could make life better for them.
The outcome of all this, assuming much of it eventually becomes law, will not in all cases necessarily advance the professed goals of free markets and states' rights. One House proposal would strip states of their authority to regulate the sale of securities within their borders, while another would block local zoning ordinances on cellular telephone towers.
While business groups continue to fight among themselves for specific advantages over their competitors, they are united behind a new approach that in bill after bill stands at the core of Congress's pro-business agenda. This approach is most clearly distilled in the "regulatory reform" bill approved by the House. Put simply, it would block Washington from approving any regulation that would impose more than $100 million in additional costs on an industry unless the Government could demonstrate that the benefits exceeded the costs. Because every new proposal is likely to generate conflicting economic claims that would take years to resolve, any Federal agency would be hamstrung in writing new regulations.
Moreover, while differing on particulars, both the House and Senate versions would offer business new legal opportunities for challenging rules that have been on the books for years. President Clinton has threatened to veto either measure if it passes the full Congress.
Supporters of the new agenda acknowledge that much Government regulation is hard to stamp out. Mr. Joseph of the United States Chamber of Commerce, who has fought what he sees as Government interference in business since the 1970's, said Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush both established requirements for "cost-benefit analysis" and "regulatory flexibility" through executive orders. But the Federal Register, which publishes new regulations, grew fatter anyway.
So why should the new laws make a difference? Advocates contend that there is a big difference between laws established by Congress, which a business can enforce by going to court, and executive orders, which simply provide instructions to Federal agencies. Beyond that, the zeal to rewrite the laws is being accompanied by budget cuts on regulatory agencies and by a general willingness in Congress to knock out particular regulations opposed by industry.

GRAPHIC: Charts:
 
Telecommunications
 Amid some Republican dissent, Congressional negotiators neared agreement on a bill to knock down barriers in cable TV, local telephone and long-distance markets.
 
Securities Industry
 The House and Senate overrode the President's veto to pass a law that makes it more difficult for investors to sue companies for stock fraud or misrepresentation.
 
All-Purpose Deregulation
 Under a bill passed by the House, Federal agencies would be required to apply a "cost-benefit analysis" to proposed environmental, health and safety rules.
 
Environment
 A bill by the House would require the Government to compensate landowners if a regulatory decision blocked development, reducing a property's value. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ENVIRONMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE DEREGULATION (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); BUDGETS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); BONDS (77%); POLITICS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); WILDERNESS (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



48 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING
What Now?;
Even if '74 Rings a Bell, Avoiding The Market Remains a Risk, Too

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
THE reason so few professionals on Wall Street remember the last real bear market -- 1973, when stock values fell 15 percent, and 1974, when they fell 26 percent -- is that most of the unlucky ones who suffered through it have made so much money in the last 20 years that they could retire.
About the only people still around to rekindle the memories of those dark days, and to warn that the good times will not last, are financial journalists. And many of them have been wrong about stocks for nearly a decade. 
 Simply put, the biggest risk to individual investors in recent times has come from not being invested in the market.
An investor in a mutual fund that matched the performance of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, among the most watched market indicators, would not have suffered an annual loss of more than 5 percent in any year since 1977. Seven times in those 18 years, the annual return on the S.& P. 500 exceeded 20 percent, assuming all dividends were reinvested.
Four times, there were back-to-back gains exceeding 15 percent, and in three of those four, the second year was better than the first.
In all but two of the 18 years -- 1981 and 1990 -- investments gauged by the S.& P. 500 made money. Even in 1987, when stocks took a frantic tumble, falling 22 percent in one day, the S.& P. index finished the year with a gain of 5 percent.
None of which means that investors are assured of double-digit returns in 1996, or even single-digit returns. But the outlook for stocks for the rest of the decade -- a decade in which inflation has all but died, interest rates have been tame and the economy has continued to chug along -- appears sound at this point.
So it should be of little surprise that more money than ever poured into mutual funds that invest in American stocks in 1995. So good was the year that the previous record, set in '93, was broken in November, with a full month to be reported.
Over the next five years, the chances are that those investors will make money. In the shorter term, however, "investors could be disappointed if they jumped in for the first time in the last quarter of 1995," said John C. Bogle, chairman of the Vanguard Group, the country's second-largest mutual fund company after the Fidelity group. "Investors certainly have been informed about the rewards of investing," he said. "I wonder if they have been well enough informed about the risks."
One of the greatest risks the market faces this year is likely to be that all those individuals who plunged into the market recently will flee if results in the first half do not measure up to their expectations.
"I'm concerned about the growing illiquidity in the marketplace," said A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical Services, which tracks mutual fund performance. "The capital of the big Wall Street firms is not growing at the same rate as the capital invested by institutional investors," including mutual funds.
That means that Wall Street, which often has been able to absorb selling pressure when investors might be inclined to panic, might not be as much of a cushion during sharp declines, Mr. Lipper said.
Wall Street is not the only place where liquidity has been drying up. "Household liquidity is down considerably over the last several years," said Byron R. Wien, portfolio strategist for Morgan Stanley & Company. "Individuals do not have the money to keep up the pace of mutual fund investments they have over the last few years."
In addition, Mr. Wien warned, "debt burdens have hampered consumers' willingness to spend," which could prove to be a bigger drag on the economy than some people anticipate. "That was one of the reasons that Christmas retail sales were so disappointing," he said.
BUT far from Wall Street, where the horizons are broader and individuals pay less attention to wrangling in Washington and the nuances of economic pronouncements, many investors remain positive about prospects for growth from the big engines of the economy -- capital goods and machinery makers.
"I think the environment of low interest rates and inflation that propelled the market over the last year should continue in the first half of '96," said Alan B. Lancz, an investment adviser in Toledo, Ohio, who also writes a stock-picking and economic newsletter.
Mr. Lancz, who last year included the media giants CBS, Time Warner and Times Mirror among his favorite stocks, this year sees the greatest potential in several companies engaged in more basic industries, which should benefit from lower interest rates around the globe.
Among them, Mr. Lancz said, are Imperial Chemical Industries and Hanson P.L.C., two British conglomerates; the Lubrizol Corporation, a producer of engine oils and fluids, and two Canadian energy concerns, TransCanada Pipelines and Westcoast Energy.
In the second half of the year, the Presidential and Congressional elections are likely to drive economic and financial concerns and to have unpredictable effects on certain stock sectors. In January 1992, few on Wall Street would have predicted that Bill Clinton would be elected President, much less anticipated the wringer that stocks of health care companies would be put through in concern over the President-to-be's proposals for medical care.
So while the outlook is positive for people who truly are long-term investors, with expectations of staying around for five years or so, the only certainty in the short term is that past performance is no guarantee of future results. Investors hoping for another year of better-than-30-percent gains in stock prices are likely to be disappointed. But fearful investors who stay on the sidelines will probably be worse off.


GRAPHIC: Low interest rates, strong corporate profits and a surging tide of fresh cash have helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average to record heights. In 1995, the Dow climbed 33.5 percent, closing the year at 5,117.12.
Graphs: "Blue-Chip Boom"
 Graph tracks the Dow during 1995. (Source: Datastream)
 
"A Tough Act to Follow"
 While Wall Street still expects further interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, the raging bull market is unlikely to repeat its stellar 1995 performance. Some experts advise investors to look elsewhere this year, particularly to overseas markets. Page C19.
 Graphs tracks predicted ranges of the Dow in 1996, yields on 30-year Treasury bonds in 1995 (Source: Telerate), yen to the dollar in 1995 (Source: Datastream), and the average one-day price change of initial public offerings from 1986 through 1995. (Source: Securities Data Company)
 Investment stragebies and analysts' predictions. Page C22.
 How the dollar is expected to fare in 1996. Page C18.
 Applying the lessons learned from new stocks. Page C18. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



49 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY;
BMW Follows A Trend To the Southeast

GRAPHIC: Photos: BMW has opened a $400 million assembly plant in Greer, S.C., near Spartanburg, joining its German rival, Mercedes-Benz, and other automotive companies in the Southeast. The region has attracted auto makers because of its low labor costs and the large number of components makers along Interstate 85 between Atlanta and Virginia, which produce everything from tires to fuel injectors.
One of the two models produced at the BMW plant in South Carolina is the Z3, a two-seat roadster. In an early step of the assembly process, top, the body-chassis unit is rotated on its side by means of a large C-clamp, allowing workers to stand while installing undercarriage parts like the fuel tank and the fuel and brake lines.
Workers, top right, install flooring and moldings.
A worker also checks for flaws in the cars' roofs.
Each day, assembly line supervisors and coordinators from all departments inspect one of the Z3's and one of the 318-series sedans produced that day at the plant.
The roadster model is assembled exclusively in South Carolina, and is therefore shipped throughout the world. The finished product, bottom, was being shipped to Austria. (Photographs by ROB AMBERG/Impact Visuals for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption 

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE, AND PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG (BMW) BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG (BMW)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREER (SC); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-FIVE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LABOR RELOCATIONS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



50 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Wyllis Bandler, 79, Who Sought Application of Abstract Algebra

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Wyllis Bandler, a mathematician who worked in the rarefied sphere of abstract algebra and sought to give it practical application, died on Dec. 22 at Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center in Florida. He was 79 and lived in Tallahassee.
The cause was emphysema, said a friend and associate, Vasco Mancini. 
 At his death Dr. Bandler was professor of computer science at Florida State University and about to retire.
Dr. Bandler's early research dealt with abstractions and purely theoretical constructs. But over the years he became known for his work in applying algebraic structures to real-life situations.
Together with Mr. Mancini, an architect, he produced several scholarly papers exploring how people interpret their urban surroundings. Another subject he investigated was how people feel about their medical needs. His research found growing use in such fields as medical diagnosis, information retrieval, environmental studies and industrial engineering.
In 1994, the International Institute for Advanced Studies in Systems Research and Cybernetics gave Dr. Bandler a special lifetime achievement award in recognition of his decadeslong efforts to use mathematics, science and technology to improve the quality of human life.
He was born in White Plains and graduated from Columbia University, where he also earned a master's degree in economics. He also earned a master's in meteorology at New York University and put that knowledge to work with an Army Air Forces weather unit in China in World War II, rising to the rank of captain.
After the war, he lived in Florence and received a doctorate in mathematics at the University of Zurich. He then taught mathematics in England at the University of Essex and established its Cognitive Studies Center.
He joined the department of computer science in Tallahassee in 1983 and founded the Institute for Cognitive Sciences. An interdisciplinary unit, it seeks to meld contributions from philosophers, mathematicians and logicians.
He left no immediate survivors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); ENGLAND (51%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR COGNITIVE PROSTHETICS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); ENGLAND (51%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); METEOROLOGY (76%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); AIR FORCES (65%); 

PERSON: BANDLER, WYLLIS; SAXON, WOLFGANG WYLLIS BANDLER (93%); VASCO MANCINI (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



51 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
Workers Are Expected to Push for More of the Economic Pie

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
A FAIRLY basic tenet of economics holds that as worker productivity increases, so does labor's share of national income.
To some analysts, however, the experience of the recent past has stretched that rule to the limit. So far this decade, workers are not reaping the benefits of greater productivity, they argue, even as profits have posted sharp gains and the stock market has soared to record levels. 
 "The bottom line is that this has been a very powerful competitive revival for corporate America," said Steven S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, "and an extraordinary environment for investors. But the worker has not nearly enjoyed as prosperous an opportunity."
Given that disparity, Mr. Roach says that at some point labor will intensify its demands for a bigger piece of the national economic pie.
Searching for signs of inflation, economists like Mr. Roach have for some time been on the lookout for a rise in wage rates. Indeed, while the Federal Reserve noted that wage pressures were intensifying in some parts of the country, one of the big surprises of the current economic expansion has been how modest wage gains have been.
Given the size of the productivity gains, wage rates might have been expected to climb. Although a gap between productivity and real wages began to appear in the 1980's, in this decade it has grown to unprecedented proportions: output per man hour has increased at a little more than 2 percent a year in the first half of the 1990's, according to Mr. Roach. By contrast, real compensation per hour increased at an average annual rate of just six-tenths of a percent.
"The contribution of the worker has risen more than three times the reward," he said.
Those gains have resulted in rising corporate profits, which as a share of national income have risen two percentage points over the last three years, to 10 percent. About half of that gain has come at the expense of employees. In the same period, employee compensation as a percentage of national income has fallen by about a percentage point, to just under 74 percent.
Sweeping corporate layoffs, which between 1991 and 1995 came to nearly 2.5 million jobs, help account for the rise in productivity, and also why labor has not been pushing for more.
"Never in our history have American workers been asked to do so much for so little," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Lehman Brothers. Cost-cutting employers have all the power in this equation," he said. "Workers have none."
Rather, workers are more apt to pressure Washington for relief.
Mr. Sinai and others find that forecast implausible, in large measure, they argue, because labor is getting more than Government statistics -- or Mr. Roach -- suggest. If true, that might explain why the worker backlash Mr. Roach says could materialize has not already arrived.
Indeed, respondents to a recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll said by nearly 2 to 1 that they were better off now than they were four years ago.
In a recent paper, Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University, presented findings suggesting why that may be so. After looking at wage, productivity and inflation data from 1963 through the second quarter of last year, Mr. Gordon asserts that contrary to published statistics, real wages have not been flat, but have, in fact, gone up.
The reasons, he writes, are "that productivity growth has been overstated, inflation has been overstated and growth in compensation understated." Correcting for what he sees as an upward bias in the consumer price index, Mr. Gordon estimated that real consumption wages were 61 percent higher at the end of the second quarter of 1995 than they were in 1972.
But in the paper and in a subsequent interview, Mr. Gordon cautioned that his conclusions refer to "widely varying experiences of more than 100 million households.
"My story is that everybody is better off than what almost anybody else thought," he said.
Rising corporate profits have helped to bolster stock prices, and workers, through investment vehicles like 401(k) retirement plans and company pension plans, have much more of a stake in the performance of financial markets than before.
Still, Mr. Gordon acknowledged that while everybody may be doing a bit better than previously thought, gains at the top far exceed those in the middle.
"None of these estimates include capital gains," he said, "which is much of the way the rich have gotten richer. The average person is doing better, but the gains at the top are better still."
Mr. Roach is unmoved by many of these arguments. "The gap between productivity and real compensation may be a little bit smaller," he said, "but I don't buy the notion that it is a statistical mirage. If you tell American workers that, I don't think they will believe you."


GRAPHIC: Productivity has outpaced real compensation in the nonfarm business sector, contributing to a rise in corporate profits, as a share of national income. Graphs track productivity, real compensation, and corporate profits as a share of national income, from 1983 through 1995. (Source: Morgan Stanley, based on Government statistics) 
Graph: "Sowing Seeds of Labor Distress?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; PRODUCTIVITY; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; STOCKS AND BONDS WAGES & SALARIES (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); BONDS (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N STEVEN S ROACH (90%); ROBERT J GORDON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



52 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: MARKETS AND INVESTING;
Many See Sparkle Dimming In I.P.O.'s

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
WATCHING the initial public offering market last year was enough to give anyone goose bumps.
While no records were set for the volume or the dollar amount of deals done in 1995, despite a torrent of offerings over the last few months, the performances of many new issues were nothing short of spectacular. The average deal gained 31 percent, according to the Securities Data Company, a research firm in Newark. 
 This spellbinding show is not expected to stop as long as the overall market continues its dazzling display, fueled by low interest rates and investors' boundless enthusiasm for equities. But few, if any, market participants think 1996 will be a repeat of last year's bonanza.
Among the year's star performers were I.P.O.'s like Premisys Communications, a telecommunications company, and two Internet outfits, Spyglass and Netscape Communications. The stocks are now up fivefold and sevenfold from their initial offering prices, and the average technology issue gained 45 percent.
"All of the fireworks was in the technology I.P.O.'s," said Robert Natale, the director of equity research for Standard & Poor's and editor of Emerging & Special Situations.
Technology issues also crowded the stage with 217 deals that raised $8.6 billion in capital, twice the amount raised in 1994 and more than 1992's previous high of $7 billion, according to Securities Data. "This has been a market of a fair number of newer industries and newer companies," said Linda Killian, an analyst with Renaissance Capital, a Greenwich, Conn., firm that specializes in new issues.
Investors can expect even more technology issues where those came from, although fewer are expected to soar. "Once we start to pick up, we see high tech as the buzz word of the beginning of 1996," said David Menlow, the president of I.P.O. Financial Network, a Springfield, N.J., firm that estimates the opening prices of new issues. "There will be a scramble on the part of the underwriters to get the next tier of issues."
And underwriters are anticipating a busy first three months of the year as the market gets off to a quick start. "Our backlog is pretty big and building rapidly," said David DiPietro, a managing director for Alex. Brown & Sons, who expects the pace to slow later in the year. "I think it would be kidding ourselves to think that 1996 is going to be as good as 1995 was."
While market observers say the quality of the deals has remained strong, there are some signs of weakening. Because many of the companies seeded by venture capitalists have already been harvested, some of the deals being done are younger and have less a history of making money, Ms. Killian noted. "It would be healthy to have a slowing down," she said.
The result would likely be an increasingly mixed performance among the year's new offerings. "I think it will be a good I.P.O. year, but I think the market will be more selective," said Sanford R. Robertson, the chairman of the San Francisco firm of Robertson, Stephens & Company. "The good ones will breeze right through."
But that means investors are taking more risks on new issues than they were, say, five years ago when the market had not been boisterous for as long. "The overall market is getting more speculative and so is the I.P.O. market," Mr. Natale said.


GRAPHIC: In 1995, high-technology companies played a dominant role amont initial public offerings. Graphs track high-technology offerings as a percentage of all initial offerings, as a share of I.P.O. proceeds, and the total proceeds from the high-tech offerings. Table lists some notable successes. (Sources: Securities Data Company, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 
Graph/Table: "I.P.O.'s On the Go"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES DATA CO INC (83%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (51%); I P O FINANCIAL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: I P O FINANCIAL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); BONDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



53 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 25; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Boat Industry Back in Good Health

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD 

 BODY:
The Viking Yacht Company reacted in 1991 to a shrinking powerboat market by closing one of its two manufacturing plants. But the company, now reinvigorated, plans to show off a new line of sport cruising yachts this week at the New York National Boat Show.
Manufacturers generally are riding the same wave of prosperity. The cyclical downturn that sent marine sales plummeting in 1989 began its climb back in 1993. The newest statistics from the National Marine Manufacturers Association, an industry trade group, indicate that the boating market has chalked up a third consecutive year with double-digit increases in overall sales. For 1995, the upswing is at 22 percent. 
 There is apt to be a competitive climate at the New York show, which is scheduled for its 86th edition from Jan. 6-14 at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, 11th Avenue at 35th Street in midtown Manhattan.
"For this year, compared to 1990 -- the best year we've ever had -- we're ahead by 12 to 15 percent," said Tom Carroll, president of Viking Sport Cruisers, a new Viking Yacht collaboration with a British boat-builder. The firm's Sport Cruiser 45 will be on display at the Javits center, and retails for about $560,000.
But it's not just the big yachts that are selling. Greg Proteau, a trade group spokesman, said that of the 650,000 boats sold in 1995, nearly 100,000 were canoes. Another 200,000 were personal watercraft -- small jet boats with names such as Sea-Doo, Jet Ski and Waverunner.
The $1.1 billion in jet boat sales reflects a 41 percent growth since 1994. While controversial in the boating industry because of driver competency issues, personal watercraft represent a third of all new boats sold in 1995. Numerous models will be on display in New York, at an average price of $5,722.
On a broader level, boat show organizers are offering plenty of incentives to boost attendance. "In the past, New York seemed to lag behind some of the other shows, such as Miami," said Michael Duffy, the New York show's manager. "I attribute that to the Northeast lagging economically behind the rest of the country. But I think we're catching up."
One show-stopper is likely to be the Aquastrada Delta, a prototype of a new amphibious vehicle that reaches speeds of 100 miles per hour on land, and 50 m.p.h. on water. The first retail version of the car/boat is expected to be available in 18 months for about $150,000.
Among the show's special events are Gone Fishin' Day, Jan. 11; and Marine Cuisine Day, Jan. 13. At Family Day on Jan. 7, customers who carry a discount card from the A&P/Food Emporium Bonus Savings Club can bring their family into the show for free with the price of one adult admission ticket. On Jan. 6 and 7, the Olympic sailing contenders Danielle Brennan, a national dinghy champion, and Alfred Imperato, a champion windsurfer, will be at the show.
Women in particular are being targeted as consumers this year. "People are trying to get the industry to recognize the buying power of women," said Wanda Kenton Smith, a marine executive and founder of International Women in Boating, a Chicago-based advocacy group. "Some sales people don't give a woman the time of day because they don't recognize her as a buyer. We are trying to bring these people out of the ice age."
More than 1,000 boats are expected to be on display, about 85 percent of them powerboat models and 15 percent sailboats. Marine accessories, outboard engines and new electronic equipment also will be on exhibit. Watercraft will include cruising boats from Regal Marine, Silverton, Mainship, Cruisers and Maxum; and high-performance boats from Sunseeker, Baja, Wellcraft, Formula and Donzi.
Fishing boats include models from Pro-Line, Albermarle, Regulator, Aquasport and Seaswirl. Small powerboats are from Cobalt, Eclipse, Powerquest and Larson; and inflatables from Avon Marine, Zeppelin and Yamaha. Sailboats include models from Beneteau and General Boat, which will show a new Rhodes 22 that comes with a self-tending mainsail.
Daily admission to the boat show costs $8 for an adult ticket, $3 for children ages 6-12, and is free for children under age 6. For further information, telephone (212) 984-7070.
For people interested in sailboats, Sail EXPO in Atlantic City offers a wider range of sailing craft and accessories. The show is scheduled for Feb. 3-11 at the Atlantic City Convention Center. It is sponsored by Sail America, the sailing industry trade association. For information, telephone (401) 842-0620.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Sport Cruiser 45, retailing at $560,000, will be on display this week at the New York Boat Show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5091 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (94%); SIC3732 BOAT BUILDING & REPAIRING (94%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: VIKING YACHT CO (94%); NATIONAL MARINE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION INC (57%); FOOD EMPORIUM (50%); NEW YORK (88%); ATLANTIC CITY CONVENTION CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (88%); ATLANTIC CITY CONVENTION CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; NEW YORK BOAT SHOW; INDUSTRY PROFILES RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BOAT DEALERS (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BOAT BUILDING (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (73%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, BARBARA CUISINE DAY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



54 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: New Family Tree Is Constructed For Indo-European

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON 

 BODY:
LINGUISTS have long agreed that languages as diverse as English, French, German and even Iranian, Albanian and Armenian all descended from a long-dead tongue, Proto-Indo-European, spoken some 5,000 years ago. But the exact nature of the relationship has been a matter of dispute. How should the family tree of the Indo-European languages be drawn?
Recently, in what some linguists are welcoming as an important development in historical linguistics, researchers at the University of Pennsylvania have proposed an answer. Drawing on ideas in biology, computer science and historical linguistics, they have developed what they say is the most accurate picture yet of how the Proto-Indo-European language fractured into the major branches that exist today. 
 The research by two linguists, Dr. Don Ringe and Dr. Ann Taylor, and a computer scientist, Dr. Tandy Warnow, was described at the National Academy of Sciences Symposium on the Frontiers of Science in Irvine, Calif., in November.
For simplicity's sake, linguists often depict the principal Indo-European language groups as 10 equal branches radiating like spokes from a wheel. But they do not seriously suppose that all these splits could have occurred simultaneously, as if 10 bands of adventurers had struck off in different directions from the Indo-European homeland.
More likely, one group parted ways, then another, which might have fractured into two more. When linguists sit down and calculate the possibilities, they are overwhelmed by a dizzying case of combinatorial explosion. By one reckoning, there are more than 34 million ways the genealogical chart for all the Indo-European languages could be drawn.
Using a new computer program, or algorithm, the scientists at the University of Pennsylvania have sifted through the myriad possibilities and come up with what they believe is the general shape of the tree. According to their picture, the first to split off from Proto-Indo-European was Anatolian, an extinct group of languages, including ancient Hittite, which were once spoken in Turkey.
Next to split off were Celtic, which gave rise to Irish, Gaelic, Welsh and Breton, and Italic, the precursor to Latin and the Romance languages. These were followed by Armenian and Greek. Among the last to split off were the Indic and Iranian languages.
The exciting implication is that the tree shows, in schematic form, how the descendants of the original Indo-Europeans might have spread across Europe and Asia.
Consider, for example, the puzzling case of the ancient Germanics. Their language, which gave rise to English, Dutch and German, has stubbornly resisted efforts to fit it into the Indo-European tree. The new genealogy offers a possible reason: an early ancestor of the Germanic language was closely related to Balto-Slavic, whose modern descendants include Lithuanian, Latvian, Russian, Czech and Polish. Then its speakers migrated westward, coming into contact with speakers of Italic and Celtic.
"What really surprised us was that we were able to come up with a clear and consistent explanation for Germanic," Dr. Ringe said.
Dr. Craig Melchert, a linguist at the University of North Carolina, called the new technique "a promising innovation."
"Based on what I've seen so far," he said, "one undeniable merit of their model is that it allows for the testing of different hypotheses in a very explicit and efficient way not previously available."
But Dr. Melchert cautioned that the data fed into such a model were always open to interpretation and dispute. He, for one, strongly disagrees that the scientists have verified that Anatolian was the first to split away from Proto-Indo-European. This theory, the Indo-Hittite hypothesis, has been debated for years.
Not everyone is convinced that computational studies have much to offer a science like linguistics, in which the data are so incomplete and indecisive. "What this emphasizes to me is that there are places for exact methods, and also places where it's silly to pretend to have them," said Dr. Jay Jasanoff, a Cornell University linguist. He said that in constructing such charts, there was always a danger that linguists would unconsciously pick data that confirmed their prejudices. "It's like 'scientific' poll taking," he said. "You put the questions in a way that gets the answer you're looking for."
But Dr. Ringe noted that before this study, he believed, contrary to his findings, that the Indo-Hittite hypothesis was wrong. "It might even be fair to say that I was biased against it," he said. "So you can imagine how startled I was when the algorithm kept turning up Anatolian as one first-order branch of the family, and everything else as the other first-order branch -- exactly what the hypothesis says."
In tracing the pedigree of languages, linguists face the same problems biologists confront in drawing taxonomic charts of the species. Similar traits do not necessarily imply common descent; they might be coincidences. All birds are related because they have wings. But insects also have wings, as do bats. Try to connect all winged creatures into one big family and you would end up with a tangle instead of a tree. The similarity is an artifact of what biologists call convergent evolution.
"Suppose two languages inherit the same word meaning 'winter,' and both of them independently shift its meaning so that it means 'snow' instead," Dr. Ringe said. "Greek, Armenian and Sanskrit actually did that. If we used our method blindly, we'd group those languages together because they all innovated in the same way, and we'd be wrong."
Even when linguists have good reason to believe that innovations are related, coming up with the right diagram can be a daunting task.
To constrain the explosion of possibilities, linguists need some way to sift out the best candidates. The most obvious criterion is Occam's razor: the simplest tree is most likely to be correct. But weeding out the most economical tree from the deluge of possibilities results in one of those problems that mathematicians call intractable. As the size of the variables slowly increases, the computer time it takes to find the best tree soars. The problem would hopelessly overwhelm even the fastest conceivable computer.
By making artful assumptions, scientists can devise algorithms that will run in reasonable times. Dr. Ringe, Dr. Taylor and Dr. Warnow assumed that the best tree for the Indo-European language was what linguists and biologists call a perfect phylogeny, with branches, limbs and twigs radiating neatly from the trunk without the tangles caused by accidents like convergent evolution.
Using an algorithm devised by Dr. Warnow and Dr. Sampath Kannan, they analyzed 12 languages representing the 10 major Indo-European branches. The computer grouped the languages according to whether they shared certain similarities.
In addition to cognates -- related words with the same meaning, like English "mother," German "Mutter" and Spanish "madre" -- the algorithm searched for similar innovations in pronunciation. For example, "k" sounds at the beginning of Indo-European words become "h" sounds in the Germanic languages. While the initial consonant in the Latin word "cornu" (meaning horn) is preserved in French ("corne") and Spanish ("cuerno"), it shifted in ancient Gothic to "haurn" and is reflected in German as "Horn," in Dutch as "hoorn" and in Norwegian and English as "horn." Latin "centum" became the English "hundred" and German "hundert." Latin "cor" and Greek "kardia" appear as the English "heart," German "Herz," Dutch "hart" and Norwegian "hjerte."
The scientists also looked for similar grammatical innovations. Germanic languages, for example, share the same kind of past-tense marker (the "-ed" ending on regular English verbs). Nothing like this exists in other Indo-European languages.
When all the number crunching was done, the scientists were left with two diagrams showing possible relationships between the languages. But there were a number of points that could not be fit into a neat tree structure: 12 for one chart, 13 for the other. These anomalies were probably the result of chance similarities, like convergent evolution and undetected borrowings between languages. Since Germanic occupied very different places on the two trees, the linguists suspected that it was the culprit causing most of the problems.
Sure enough, when they removed Germanic from the pool, they came up with four much sturdier tree structures. This time each tree had only four or five anomalies, and the scientists were able to explain away all but two.
The first surprise was that in all four trees, the Anatolian language group immediately split away from Proto-Indo-European, just as the Indo-Hittite hypothesis has held.
The second surprise was the evidence that Germanic had shifted allegiances, from Balto-Slavic to Italic and Celtic, like a country pulled between the orbits of neighboring powers. In the past, some linguists have used Germanic's ambiguous position in the Indo-European family to argue that, in their early stages, these languages were more like a network than a tree; instead of neatly cleaving one from the other and developing in isolation, they hovered nearby, trading innovations back and forth. But Dr. Ringe and his colleagues showed that Germanic might simply be a special case.
This conclusion has raised at least one pair of eyebrows. "It's a gratuitous interpretation," Dr. Jasanoff said. "The shifting position of Germanic could simply be interpreted as saying the method didn't work."
But Dr. Ringe argued: "We've shown what we principally set out to show, that this new computational method for evolutionary tree construction is more powerful and more reliable than any in existence, and that it is especially apt for the precise testing of hypotheses about the subgroupings of languages. We're hoping this will help lead to new directions of research in historical linguistics."

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (73%); EUROPE (73%); LITHUANIA (73%); ARMENIA (73%); GERMANY (58%); WALES (58%); NETHERLANDS (58%); LATVIA (58%); UNITED STATES (56%); ASIA (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (73%); EUROPE (73%); LITHUANIA (73%); ARMENIA (73%); GERMANY (58%); WALES (58%); NETHERLANDS (58%); LATVIA (58%); UNITED STATES (56%); ASIA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; ITALIAN LANGUAGE; GERMAN LANGUAGE LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); LINGUISTICS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (89%); GENEALOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (76%); FAMILY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE DON RINGE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



55 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Wildlife Finds Odd Sanctuary on Military Bases

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: NICEVILLE, Fla.

 BODY:
FEW places outside the tropical rain forests contain such a wealth of biological riches as a certain plot of Florida Panhandle not far from here. In this snippet of a mostly vanished landscape, the wind sighs in the flat tops of centuries-old longleaf pines spaced as invitingly as if in a park, soaring above a thick carpet of wildflowers, grasses and haphazardly arranged shrubs.
The diversity of life "is unbeatable," Dr. Louis Provencher, an ecologist with the Nature Conservancy, said in wonder at this precious remnant of natural landscape, possibly the best example of an endangered ecosystem that once stretched from Virginia to Texas. 
 As he spoke, a red-cockaded woodpecker, its species also endangered, flitted though the sunbathed canopy -- an "R.C.W.," as the bird has become known in military parlance, for this woodland flourishes not in a national park or wilderness area but on Eglin Air Force base, half a mile from an active bombing range.
Over the last half century, as the United States kept itself girded for the cold war while converting its private domestic lands pell-mell to economic use, hundreds of military bases became islands of rich, green nature in a sea of development. The Pentagon owns more than 25 million acres on more than 400 bases in the United States, the third largest acreage of any Federal department, after Interior and Agriculture.
Some of these lands offer "the last, best hope for protecting certain kinds of ecosystems," said Sherri W. Goodman, the Deputy Undersecretary of Defense for Environmental Security, who has aggressively promoted an active conservation role for the military.
Typically, only part of a base is actually used for military purposes, with much land set aside as a buffer zone. The military has long managed these lands to protect fish, game and, under Federal law, endangered species. But in some ways the military contribution to conservation until recently has been one of benign neglect. Not least among the accidental benefits has been the inadvertent restoration of fire to many landscapes that depend on it for regeneration.
Fire insures biological diversity, for instance, by keeping a handful of aggressive plant species from crowding out scores of less aggressive ones. This sort of cleansing fire has generally been suppressed in America. But at Eglin and many other bases, fires started by exploding munitions have restored the natural process. The rich scene marveled at by Dr. Provencher has been one such beneficiary.
Now, to the cheers of conservationists, the military is going a step further by trying to turn its lands into models of conservation practice. The goal is to manage whole ecosystems for maximum biodiversity while still allowing for human use of the land -- in this case, military training and weapons testing.
According to this way of thinking, only an ecosystem approach allows the necessary flexibility. Advocates also argue that it is vital to preserve vanishing ecosystems, with whole assemblages of potentially threatened species, rather than simply to manage the landscape for limited objectives like hunting and fishing or for a few endangered species.
It is an approach widely espoused by leading conservationists and the Clinton Administration, but difficult to pursue on private lands because it requires the hard-to-get cooperation of many owners. Ecosystem management is likewise frustrated on many Federal lands because of grazing and logging interests. In the military, there is only one owner and user, and once the word comes down and the base commander gets on board, things tend to happen. "We don't have our shoestrings tied together," said Eglin's wildlife manager, Carl J. Petrick.
Ecosystem management is now official Pentagon policy everywhere, reinforced by detailed guidelines. At Eglin, for instance, managers are systematically taking inventory of the 460,000-acre base's multitude of species large and small, protecting the coherent assemblages in which they exist, restoring areas formerly damaged by logging and purposely setting fires of rejuvenation. They are doing it while Eglin pursues its mission of training air crews and testing weapons.
The conservation effort requires detailed and hard-to-obtain knowledge of the ecosystem, so Eglin has formed working alliances with experts at a number of universities and with the Nature Conservancy, the nation's largest private, science-based landscape manager and collector of ecosystem data. As a result of similar undertakings at other bases, the military is acquiring a new green reputation to offset the bad odor surrounding its continuing struggle to clean up decades' worth of toxic wastes on its land.
Conservation organizations have showered Eglin with awards and generally praised the military's new effort, though some experts say the quality of that effort varies from place to place. Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, a dedicated conservationist, has become an evangelical cheerleader on the military's behalf. His department has signed a number of partnership agreements with military bases to protect valuable species habitats.
The Nature Conservancy, for its part, is "pretty impressed," said Michele Leslie, who works for the organization and heads a cooperative program with the Department of Defense to help manage landscapes at more than 170 bases in 41 states. "We think, in general, they're doing a pretty good job," Ms. Leslie said of the bases, "and in fact they're setting new standards."
On another front, the wave of base closings in recent years has presented instant opportunities to convert large tracts of habitat to nature preserves and to create harmonious blends of open space and private development. This is particularly true in the East and the North, where there are relatively few large tracts of public land.
A case in point is Fort Devens, Mass., New England's largest Army post and its military center in four wars. The post's 9,300 acres contain the biggest plot of open land in southern New England. Much of it is classic Northeastern forest in an undulating setting sculpted milleniums ago by the last Ice Age glacier and punctuated by a number of "kettle ponds" created when great blocks of ice depressed the land and then melted. Extensive wetlands dot the landscape. The big, ungainly nests of great blue herons are dotted about the wetland treetops. Beaver lodges grace the water's edge. Twenty-three species of plants and animals rare in Massachusetts live on the post.
Devens is being closed as an active post, with about half its land retained for training reservists. The rest, including the post's extensive "town" area and more than 2,000 acres of open land, is to be given up by the Army. Roughly a thousand acres of critical habitat flanking the Nashua River are being transferred to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, more than doubling the size of the adjacent Oxbow National Wildlife Refuge.
"When you can set aside those kind of acres in a heavily developed area like the Northeast, it's a major accomplishment for the wildlife," said Ed Moses of the Fish and Wildlife Service, who manages the Oxbow refuge and eight others.
About 1,000 other acres on the base are to be managed for conservation values, with varying degrees of human use allowed. The urban area of the post is to be converted by the state into a new economic center focusing mainly on technology-based companies and education. The intended result is an environmentally friendly new civilian community decorated by what its boosters call an "emerald necklace" of ecologically valuable natural areas.
Similar things are happening at other bases being closed or partly closed. At Fort Ord, Calif., some 17,000 acres of prime beach, dune, chaparral and oak forest habitat containing imperiled species like the snowy plover and Smith's blue butterfly are to become permanent nature reserves under nonmilitary Federal land agencies.
At Fort Meade, Md., the home of the National Security Agency, more than 8,000 acres of forest and wetland have been transferred to the neighboring Patuxent Research Refuge of the Fish and Wildlife Service, tripling the size of the refuge. At Joliet Arsenal in Illinois, plans call for transforming part of the post into a 19,000-acre National Tallgrass Prairie, the largest such preserve east of the Mississippi.
Base closings present risk as well as opportunity. Much unexploded ordnance lies around. A worse risk, some conservationists say, is that the military's withdrawal may touch off land grabs by developers. Fort Devens was eyed by Massachusetts as a promising site for a new regional airport. It took an explosion of outrage from towns around the post to make the state back off.
The Marine Corps' 126,000-acre Camp Pendleton stands out as the last relatively undisturbed natural area between Los Angeles and San Diego. Outside the base, conservationists and developers are struggling to put together a network of nature preserves designed to save the coastal scrub sage ecosystem while allowing some habitat to be developed. But inside the base, the Marines are already actively managing an extensive preserve of coastal scrub sage, grasslands, chaparral, beaches and estuaries, all home to nearly 600 wild species, 13 of them endangered.
The challenge is to "work out ways in which the military mission and nature can coexist," said Maj. Jeff Caspers, Pendleton's deputy commander for natural resources. One illustration: in a successful effort to rebuild the base population of the endangered least Bell's vireo, the Marines avoid the bird's habitat during the summer mating season.
At Eglin, the main object of ecosystem management is a 320,000-acre remnant of the longleaf pine ecosystem. The woodland, which once covered 60 million to 90 million acres in the Southeast, occupies about three-quarters of the base. Under the pines live more than 150 species of plants and thousands of species of invertebrates, making the woodland's flora and fauna among the most diverse in the world.
The ecosystem as a whole is adapted to fire; the pines themselves are fire-resistant, but thay have highly flammable needles that together with equally combustible wiregrass provide the fuel for the rejuvenating blazes.
Most of the longleaf system throughout the South has been logged and replanted with other tree species, and fire has long been suppressed in most of the rest. As a result, the longleaf landscape covers only about 3 percent of its former area. At Eglin, where managers set controlled fires in addition to those caused by munitions, the patches of longleaf are beginning to regain their original character and richness. On many tracts where logging was allowed, longleafs are being replanted.
The Eglin managers hope that as the base's woodlands, wetlands, rivers and beaches recover, so will populations of the red-cockaded woodpecker and some 90 other rare or imperiled species on the base. Among them are animals like the Okaloosa darter, the bog frog, the alligator snapping turtle, the Florida pine snake, Bachman's warbler and the bald eagle, and plants like bogbuttons, Chapman's aster, the ebony spleenwort, the toothed savory, the perforate reindeer lichen, the pond spicebush, naked-stemmed panic grass and the pineland hoary pea.
If the Pentagon's managers at Eglin and other bases achieve their new goals, they will have demonstrated that those who bomb, strafe and sew mines can be among nature's best stewards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Firefighters monitoring the edge of a prescribed burn on wild land at Eglin Air Force Base. (Courtesy of the United States Air Force) (pg. B17)
 
Drawings (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (59%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE (FLA); UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; BIRDS; WOODPECKERS; TURTLES AND TORTOISES ARMED FORCES (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); BIRDS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); BIOLOGY (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); COLD WAR (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MILITARY TRAINING (68%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



56 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY: Middle Age Catches Up With the Me Generation;
Increasing the Demand For Health Care Services

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
The providers of health care can hardly wait as the latest crop of 50-year-olds crosses the threshold to the aches and pains of middle age. Having grown up expecting and generally finding care that was both affordable and accessible, the graying boomers will now need it a lot more, and that should translate into bonanzas for drug makers, many physicians and hospitals, not to mention the makers of artificial knees for worn-out joggers who refuse to slow down.
"Inexorably, demand goes higher," said John F. Hindelong, a health care securities analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "The question is, who pays for it?" 
 Unlike their parents who were Depression era babies with low expectations for government help, many boomers view medical care as a right rather than a privilege.
But with the rising expenses that come with age and budget cutters preparing to raise the eligibility age to 66 or 67 for Social Security and Medicare, employers are likely to become nervous about the cost of continuing care, said Marilyn Moon, a health policy expert at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit Washington research center.
Known for wanting immediate gratification, the boomers' generation has always been strong on preventive health care and self-medication.
"Clearly we all want to live forever, and we all want to live as we lived when we were younger," said Kenneth S. Abramowitz, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. That could increase demand for angioplasty and other less invasive surgical techniques, "so we can rehabilitate ourselves as quickly as possible," he said.
For those still working for employers who provide health coverage, the checkout lines at drug counters will be even longer as more and more health plans help with the tab for prescription drugs. The potential customers for pharmaceuticals will swell as people of all ages increasingly get their care through health maintenance organizations. MILT FREUDENHEIM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); URBAN INSTITUTE (55%); URBAN INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (55%); URBAN INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; LIFE STYLES HEALTH CARE (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MEDICARE (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (61%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (56%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



57 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY: Middle Age Catches Up With the Me Generation;
Changing the Shape Of the Housing Market

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
After having "paired and nested," many members of the baby boom generation are now in the process of trading up to single-family homes, public policy analysts say.
"They are trading up to bigger homes and to communities where they will want to stay for quite a while," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Public Policy at Rutgers University. 
 Indeed, more than two-thirds of new single-family homes are now sold to trade-up buyers, said Michael Carliner, economist at the National Association of Home Builders.
That trend, experts say, will help shape the nation's housing market through the 1990's and past the turn of the century.
The baby boomers began flooding the real estate market in the 1970's, spurring a total of 2.4 million housing starts in 1972 -- the peak year since World War II. After a late 1980's slump in the market, housing starts in 1991 fell to a postwar low of 1.01 million units.
Mr. Carliner estimated there were 1.4 million housing starts in 1995.
While the boom of the 1970's was largely spurred by the construction of multifamily dwellings, with the Government providing subsidies for such construction, the current turnaround was prompted by the maturation of the baby boomers.
At least through the rest of this decade, said H. James Brown, director of the Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University, "trade-up households will dominate the market and housing construction."
Regional economies, of course, will give particular shape to local housing markets. The prevalence of trade-up buyers in the Northeast and California, where economic recovery has been slower, will be more evident than in communities like Denver, Phoenix or Las Vegas, Nev., where new jobs attract younger, first-time buyers.
Mr. Hughes of Rutgers noted that in 1994, 88 percent of the units constructed in New Jersey were single-family -- up from an average of 61 percent since 1960. "And that's typical of the suburban ring" of Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, he said. DENNIS HEVESI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LIFE STYLES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; SURVEYS AND SERIES REAL ESTATE (93%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); BABY BOOMERS (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); WORLD WAR II (53%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS JAMES BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



58 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY: Middle Age Catches Up With the Me Generation;
Replenishing the Ranks Of High-Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
When the United Automobile Workers begin negotiations this year with the Big Three auto companies, the shifting of work to outside suppliers is expected to be its single biggest concern. But it may not be at the top of the agenda for many U.A.W. members.
For hundreds of thousands of auto workers, the protection and -- if possible -- the extension of retirement benefits are of paramount importance. Roughly half the combined hourly work force at the General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation will be eligible to retire within a decade. 
 To a lesser extent, the same rush to the exits is expected to sweep over other manufacturers nationwide. In the current tight labor markets, signs of wage pressures and shortages of skilled workers are already beginning to appear in the Midwest.
"The total number of jobs is not climbing much, but with retirements the demand to replace manufacturing workers is much higher than people realize," said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist at the First Chicago NBD Corporation. "Entry-level wages are being bid up."
Manufacturers are already worried not just about the number of young people who will be available to replace retiring baby boomers but about their low skill levels. In turning to automation, many manufacturers are searching for abilities, like a familiarity with computers, that are in short supply among those looking for factory jobs. That problem has in turn encouraged many manufacturers to invest in still more automation so that they can get the most from the dwindling ranks of the experienced and highly skilled. And some are making big efforts to keep those they have.
"When people retire, we try to talk them into staying with us to work part-time," said Linda Decker, head of human resources for Hunter Automated Machinery, a foundry company in suburban Chicago.
The value of hanging on to experienced employees and the need to cut workers' compensation claims are contributing to a growing interest in workplace ergonomics.
Levi Strauss & Company, the jeans maker, has invested in variable-height work stations for folding, bagging and marking its products. And the Timken Company, which makes bearings for rail cars, has installed lifts that reduce the demands on its aging workers to hoist boxes of bearings. BARNABY J. FEDER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); TKR (NYSE) (81%); JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (81%); NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (81%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) FORD MOTOR CO (91%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (81%); TIMKEN CO (81%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (71%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (71%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; SURVEYS AND SERIES FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (88%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (73%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (73%); APPAREL MFG (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); ERGONOMICS (61%); TRAINS (60%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (60%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



59 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: OUTLOOK '96: THE ECONOMY: Middle Age Catches Up With the Me Generation;
Getting the Message To Aging Consumers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
The aging of the baby-boom generation will have profound implications for consumer marketers, who are scrambling to adapt to the needs, tastes and attitudes of the boomers. Significant changes are expected in everything from the kinds of products on store shelves to the look and tone of ads.
The companies most eagerly anticipating the coming wave of graying boomers are those selling goods and services to a preponderance of older users. 
 For example, those aged 50 to 55 and older consume "about twice as much soup as the younger demographics," said Aaron Wadell, business director for condensed soups at the Campbell Soup Company in Camden, N.J. Even so, he added. "you have to stay relevant, rejuvenate the business to make it contemporary with their growing and changing needs."
Campbell has introduced reduced-fat versions of its three best-selling cream soups: cream of celery, chicken and mushroom. And because boomers' palates are more diversified, Campbell will add varieties of soups to the 70 already being sold.
The boomers' crossing the threshold of 50 is "good news for greeting-card companies," said Sara Eames, a spokeswoman for the American Greetings Corporation in Cleveland, because "people buy more cards when they're 55 to 64."
So American Greetings is adding more "milestone products," birthday cards and party goods for specific ages. "The ages we identify are getting older," Ms. Eames said, "50, 60, 100. And we're gearing up for another milestone, 50th anniversaries."
The luxury segment of the automobile industry is thrilled as tens of millions of boomers begin entering the age bracket in which such cars are most frequently bought.
"The big question," said Chris Cedergren, a senior vice president with the Auto Pacific Group, an automotive consulting company, "is what are they going to buy."
"They'll want cars with similar attributes their parents and grandparents wanted -- more comfortable vehicles, easier to get in and out of -- but more individualistic and personality-oriented" than present-day Cadillacs and Lincolns, he said.
"For some brands like Buick," he added, "it will be very, very tough to get baby boomers to buy them even when they're in their 60's and 70's," because they are perceived as "the fuddy-duddy car your dad or granddad drove."
One auto maker already working on altering its models and marketing communications is the Mercedes-Benz of North America unit of Daimler-Benz. Smaller, less expensive cars aimed at boomers are being sold with advertising campaigns infused with whimsy, humor and nostalgia for the 1960's, most notably commercials for 1995 and 1996 models featuring the Janis Joplin song that begins "Oh Lord, won't you buy me a Mercedes-Benz."
There is "an opportunity to make Mercedes relevant to the boomers," said Ms. Cook of Lowe & Partners/SMS, the Mercedes-Benz agency. The Joplin tune, she added, recognizes that "boomers are reluctant to give up their music, their clothing, their consumption habits."
The outlook for new products is strong, marketing experts say, because of the interest among many boomers in health and fitness. They expect lines of so-called nutriceuticals and cosmeceuticals -- hybrids of foods and drugs and cosmetics and drugs.
"Any product that allows people to look or feel better will be as acne creams were in the 60's," said Mr. Dychtwald of Age Wave. STUART ELLIOTT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (84%); AM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (84%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (84%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (61%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (84%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (83%); MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; LIFE INSURANCE; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; HOUSING BABY BOOMERS (92%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); AGING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (59%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; FEDER, BARNABY J; HEVESI, DENNIS; FREUDENHEIM, MILT JANIS JOPLIN (58%); SARA EAMES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



60 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's Budget Plan in Brief: Amid Austerity, a Tax Break

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 1

 BODY:
Reducing spending from state taxes for the second consecutive year, Gov. George E. Pataki's budget for 1996-97 promises an austerity not seen in Albany since World War II and a Governor named Dewey.
As a whole, the $63.8 billion budget that Mr. Pataki has proposed provides perhaps the clearest view yet of his three core political beliefs: that shrinking government and reducing taxes spur economic growth, that lengthening prison sentences deters crime and that sharply limiting welfare benefits encourages work and independence. 
 Democrats, not surprisingly, say that the Governor's budget will cause economic disarray in the health-care industry, danger in the prison system and despair among the needy. At the same time, they have signaled that they are going to pick their spots in the budget battle, indicating that they are willing to preserve the income tax cut and accept some welfare reductions if they can restore some spending for Medicaid and higher education.
Because 1996 is a legislative election year, this budget and its impact on New York will be debated not just in Albany, but on the campaign trail and in television advertisements as well. With so much fighting in store, few are predicting that this budget will be approved by the start of the 1996-97 fiscal year on April 1.
 
Tax Cuts
Earlier this year, when it became clear that Federal budget cuts and the state's own recurring fiscal problems would leave a $3.9 billion shortfall in the 1996-97 budget, legislators in both parties quietly suggested something that they had done several times before: defer a promised tax cut.
But Mr. Pataki, who as a state legislator chastised his colleagues when they deferred such cuts in the past, put the tax cut into his budget and has vowed to veto any efforts to delay it.
The clear choice for deferral would be the second installment of a three-year, phased cut in the state personal income tax. Under that plan, the top tax rate would drop to 7.125 percent from 7.59 percent in 1996, while the standard deduction for married couples and individuals would increase. When the cut is fully in place by 1997, a family of four with an annual income of $50,000 would save $663 in state taxes.
The second phase of the tax cut would reduce state revenues by $1.7 billion in 1996-97, or almost half of the projected shortfall. Deferring the second installment would enable lawmakers to avoid making cuts in their favored programs. Before Mr. Pataki took office in 1995, the Legislature had deferred a scheduled income tax cut every year since 1990.
Perhaps because of the Governor's firm stand, or because 1996 is an election year when delaying a tax cut could be political suicide, legislative leaders have said they would not defer the scheduled cut. Indeed, the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, leader of the Legislature's Democrats, the group considered most likely to advocate a deferral, has said he would fight to maintain the tax cut.
Mr. Pataki's budget also maintains the third installment of business tax cuts that would reduce state revenues by $300 million in 1996-97. And bowing to pressure from the Republican leadership of the State Senate, he has proposed a $50 million fund to provide tax relief to select companies that create or retain jobs.
Some Republican senators have talked of deferring the second year of the personal income tax cut, and granting instead a reduction in the gross receipts tax, a levy on utilities that has contributed to high electric and gas bills. Mr. Pataki's aides have said the Governor would oppose that.
Yet for all his insistence on maintaining tax cuts, Mr. Pataki's budget includes a proposal to allow cities to raise the local portion of the gross receipts tax. JAMES DAO

GRAPHIC: Photo: Graph tracks revenue reduction for '95-'96, '96-'97, and '97-'98.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); WELFARE (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF BUDGETS (93%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PRISONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); VETO (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); SENTENCING (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); MARRIAGE (60%); HEALTH CARE (55%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (52%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); DAO, JAMES EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



61 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's Budget Plan in Brief: Amid Austerity, a Tax Break;
Welfare

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
The single biggest cut in Mr. Pataki's budget, after Medicaid, would be in welfare, where he is hoping to save $240 million through time limits on benefits and reductions in monthly grants.
Mr. Pataki is proposing a limit of 60 days per 12-month period for Home Relief, the state and local program mainly for single adults and childless couples. He would also set a lifetime limit of five years in the program, meaning a recipient could receive 60 days of Home Relief, five times in a lifetime. 
 Taking his lead from a similar Federal proposal, Mr. Pataki would also set a five-year lifetime limit on Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the Federal and state program that serves mainly single-parent families. And he would stop giving increased benefits to families who have additional children while on welfare.
Currently, there are no time limits on either Home Relief or A.F.D.C. There are 316,739 New Yorkers enrolled in Home Relief and 1.2 million others on A.F.D.C., of which about 773,000 are children.
The Governor's budget would also reduce monthly grants to the same level as New Jersey, about a 25 percent cut for both programs. A family of three living in New York City would see their monthly A.F.D.C. check shrink from $575 to $424.
Mr. Pataki contends that reducing monthly grants would discourage poor people from moving to New York in search of higher benefits. And he says that time limits would prod welfare recipients to find work and gain economic independence.
His budget includes some money for job training and day care to help parents move into the work force. It would also create a $100 million fund to provide food, clothing and shelter to people removed from the welfare rolls due to time limits.
But critics, including many Democrats and advocates for the poor, contend that Mr. Pataki has not provided enough money to prepare welfare recipients for work or to help sustain them once they are removed from the rolls. They say the state's monthly benefit levels are already insufficient and that reducing them will cause homelessness and suffering.
But some of the things Mr. Pataki wants to do are the subject of negotiations between Congress and the White House. If Washington approves time limits and other welfare reductions, the state might have to do the same because it would be unable to offset the Federal cuts.
For that reason, Democrats in the Legislature are already saying that they will accede to time limits if Congress and the President approve them. But the Democrats say they will fight any reductions in benefit levels. JAMES DAO

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly recipients fro '86 through an estimated '95.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: F-D-C CORP (56%); MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); PARENTS (74%); LABOR FORCE (72%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); DAO, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1996



62 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Stocks Leap 5.4%, Injecting Optimism

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The Mexican stock market began the new year with a roaring start today by closing at an all-time high, giving a jolt of optimism to an economy that spent 1995 in deep recession.
The surge on the first day of trading in 1996 suggested that Mexico's leaders were making some headway in recovering the trust they catastrophically lost in the bungled peso devaluation of December 1994. 
 But Mexico still has a long way to go to rebuild its credibility, analysts and Government officials said, adding that the markets would remain skittish until signs of renewed growth became unmistakable.
The Mexico City stock market's leading index rose 150.96 points, or more than 5.4 percent, to close at 2,929.43. It surpassed a record of 2,881.17, set on Feb. 8, 1994, during the Mexican market boom of 1994.
In New York, American depository receipts of Mexican companies performed strongly, as did closed-end funds made up of holdings of Mexican companies and debt instruments. The bellwether Telefonos de Mexico rose $2.375, to $34.25, on the New York Stock Exchange. Grupo Televisa, a big entertainment conglomerate, was up even more sharply, gaining $2.625 to close at $25.125. B shares of the industrial company Cemex improved 43.75 cents, to $7.50. Among funds, the Mexico Fund gained $1.50, to $14.25. The Emerging Mexico Fund rose 62.5 cents, to $6.75, and the Mexico Equity and Income Fund was up 75 cents, to close at $9.375.
Mexico's national leaders, after some false starts, made a sustained effort in 1995 to pull back from their country's financial breakdown and to restart growth. But international investors did not seem to believe it. Just when the economy seemed to have stabilized last fall, nervous traders and investors dumped Mexican pesos, causing the already battered currency to drop a further 25 percent in two months.
Only in December, after Mexican finance authorities jumped into the markets to stop peso speculators, did the peso and the stock market begin to climb again.
President Ernesto Zedillo, a Yale-trained economist, and Finance Minister Guillermo Ortiz decided to confront the lack of confidence with their own consistency. They concluded that the answer was to stick closely to strict economic policies to satisfy investors that there would be no more unpleasant surprises.
"We don't want to talk people into believing us; we want to do things that convince people," Foreign Minister Angel Gurria, a former high-level Finance Ministry official, said in a recent interview.
Mexico stuck grimly to Mr. Ortiz's program of curbing inflation with tight money and a balanced budget at the cost of painful restraints on public spending. Mr. Ortiz, a former ranking official at the International Monetary Fund, made Mexicans swallow their bitter medicine in the midst of a 7 percent economic contraction, the sharpest in six decades.
As a result, Mexico ended the year on solid ground, and there is no sign that Mr. Ortiz will loosen up in 1996. The Government fulfilled its obligations on virtually all the $29.2 billion in dollar-denominated bonds known as tesobonos. Mexico did not use all the $20 billion in credit offered by the Clinton Administration and was repaying by selling longer-term bonds on international capital markets.
In 1996, Mr. Ortiz said, Mexico's cost of servicing its foreign debts will drop to a new low as a percentage of export income.
Exports, which rose to 30 percent of the gross domestic product last year, will be the winch that pulls the economy out of its hole, officials said. The budget is expected to be in balance again and inflation kept in check.
Mexican officials reading unemployment figures said that recovery had already begun, at least on paper. But in everyday life, most Mexicans see only hardship and frustration. Their protests, up to now restrained, could intensify if relief does not come soon. Uncertainty also persists about the ailing banking system. The Government costs for bank and debtor bailouts have risen to $10.9 billion, which taxpayers will be absorbing over the next three decades.
Looming behind the financial calculations is a larger doubt, shared by Mexican and foreign investors, about Mr. Zedillo's leadership. In a country accustomed to presidents of monarchical style, the mild-mannered Mr. Zedillo seeks to stress policy over personality and to build democratic institutions rather than presidential power. But while many Mexicans agree that the arbitrary rule of past presidents caused many of their current woes, they feel nervous without it.
"The Mexicans themselves are arguing that you can't liberalize without imposition by a strong political leader," said Sylvia Maxfield, a professor of management and political science at Yale University. "It's a contradiction in terms, but they are so used to a strong leader they just can't cope."
Mr. Ortiz has shown that he is a skilled policy maker, but seems to lack the larger-than-life quality that foreign investors have come to expect from Mexican finance ministers. As a result, as Mexico backs away from a suffocating one-party system that at least provided stability for 66 years, Mexican investors, in particular, will be skittish and highly sensitive to news events.
"The substance of the policy is right. The question is, can they communicate it?" said the United States Ambassador here, James R. Jones, a former chairman of the American Stock Exchange. Mr. Jones termed Mexico's current situation a "Bush recovery," alluding to the last year of President George Bush's Administration, when American growth had started, somewhat imperceptibly, to revive. Mexico's progress, specialists say, will not be felt at dinner tables until the third quarter of 1996.
Some Americans with long-term investments in Mexico, although shaken by the financial crisis, remain convinced that they made the right choice. Dale Robertson, head of Mexico operations at SBC Communications, a regional Bell company that spent $1 billion in 1990 to buy a stake in Telefonos de Mexico, sees telecommunications growth wherever he looks.
"I don't see any market out there that's set to decline," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Bolsa index of 35 Mexican stocks from the third quarter of 1994 through yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (92%); TV (NYSE) (90%); TLEVISA (BMV) (90%); CX (NYSE) (90%); CEMEX (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL MINING (90%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (91%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (92%); GRUPO TELEVISA SA (90%); CEMEX SAB DE CV (90%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DEVALUATION (76%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TRENDS (75%); BONDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA GUILLERMO ORTIZ (74%); ERNESTO ZEDILLO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



63 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Gain As New Year Starts Strong

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market started 1996 the same way it finished 1995 -- with general optimism and a price rally.
"The market continues to perceive indications of slow growth and lower inflation numbers as positive," said Barbara C. Marcin, vice president of Citibank Global Asset Management. "But the rate of increase in earnings has definitely peaked." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 60.33 points yesterday, to 5,177.45. It was the best performance for the Dow since an 86-point day last May and would have been the second-best individual day of 1995.
But the Dow rose more than stocks in general, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increasing 4.80 points, to 620.73. The Nasdaq composite index gained 6.52 points, to 1,058.65.
Among the three best performers in the Dow, AT&T climbed 2 5/8, to 67 3/8, after announcing yesterday that it planned to cut its work force by 13 percent in the next three years and take a $6 billion charge against earnings that would reduce its after-tax profit for the fourth quarter of 1995 by $4 billion. Du Pont leaped 2 1/8, to 72, on expectations that it would enjoy greater revenues this year. And Walt Disney rose 2, to 60 7/8, after being upgraded by Robertson, Stephens & Company.
AT&T was responsible for 7.6 index points in the Dow, while Du Pont's rise accounted for 6.1 points.
Index-linked trading also played a major role in the surge in the Dow industrials, triggering the New York Stock Exchange's so-called downtick rule at 2:30 P.M. when the Dow gained more than 50 points. According to Birinyi Associates, the Dow has moved up by at least 50 points on the first trading day in three of the last nine years.
The stock market also rose on news that manufacturing slowed for the fifth consecutive month in December, raising prospects that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates soon to stimulate the economy.
The Dow was also pushed upward by a surprisingly weak December report by the Association of Purchasing Management, which said its Purchasing Managers' Index was up slightly to 47.3 percent from 46.5 percent in November. The reading below 50 percent indicated manufacturing activity contracted last month, although at a slower rate than in November.
The index was one of the few bits of economic data the market has seen due to the partial Government shutdown caused by the budget impasse in Washington.
Advancing issues on the Big Board exceeded declining one by 1,591 to 917. Volume rose to 364.3 million shares, from 321.3 million shares last Friday.
"No recession is expected anytime soon," said Sung Won Sohn, a corporate economist at Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. But he added that "if a credible compromise on a balanced budget is not reached, the disappointment could hurt the financial markets and the economy."
Retail stocks were boosted when Merrill Lynch raised its rating on Sears, Roebuck -- also a component of the Dow -- to "buy" from "above average." Retail stocks had been beaten down last year and several analysts had predicted they would rise with the new year. Sears rose 1 3/8, to 40 3/8; Wal-Mart increased 1, to 23 1/4; the Gap advanced 2 5/8,, to 44 5/8, and J. C. Penney rallied 1, to 48 5/8.
Toys "R" Us, which said that same-store sales rose 2 percent last month, picked up 2 1/4, to 24.
Some technology stocks rebounded on projections of profit gains. Microsoft closed at 89 3/4, up 2; Micron Technology ended at 41 1/2, up 1 7/8; Intel closed at 58 5/8, up 1 7/8, and Novell finished at 15 3/8, up 1 1/8.
But shares of Silicon Graphics tumbled 16 percent when the company predicted lower earnings. The company's shares, which were the most actively traded yesterday, dropped $4.375, to close at $23.25 on the New York Stock Exchange, after trading at a new 52-week low of $22.
Airline stocks rallied as most major carriers chose not to collect a 10 percent Federal excise tax that lapsed over the New Year holiday, effectively cutting fares by the same amount. UAL, operator of United Airlines, jumped 3 3/8, to 181 7/8; AMR, the parent of American Airlines, gained 7/8, to 75 1/8, and Delta Air Lines rose 2 1/4, to 75 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (60%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (76%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); WELLS FARGO & CO (60%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (76%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



64 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Big 3 Dispute Challenge Over New-Car Costs

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 2

 BODY:
One of the nation's top experts on measuring consumer sentiment warned today that car buyers were more concerned about prices now than at any time in the last decade, but top economists of the Big Three auto makers dismissed his contention.
The disagreement, coming at the start of what is expected to be a year of low growth, at best, in car sales, reflected an issue being discussed more and more often in the industry: whether consumers can still afford to buy cars at the pace of recent years. The prices of new vehicles rose an average of about 8 percent annually from 1973 through 1993, according to a study by the University of Michigan, and they are continuing to rise briskly. Family incomes rose about 5 percent annually during that period and have stagnated recently. 
 As car sales have slowed in recent months, auto executives have played down questions about affordability, pointing out that some of their best sellers are costly mini-vans and sport-utility vehicles and cars loaded with options. A rapid rise in trade-in prices for used cars over the last few years has allowed many buyers of new cars to purchase more expensive vehicles.
But Richard T. Curtin, the director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, predicted today that many Americans might remain reluctant to buy cars because of worries over prices. "Little in the way of further improvement can be expected until consumer attitudes toward interest rates and prices recover," he said at a gathering here of the Society of Automotive Analysts.
Economists at the General Motors Corporation, the Chrysler Corporation and particularly the Ford Motor Company took a different view, discounting concerns about affordability while predicting that sales of new cars and trucks in the United States would continue this year at roughly last year's solid but unspectacular level of 15.1 million vehicles.
Martin Zimmerman, Ford's executive director of governmental relations and corporate economics, emphasized that consumer spending on cars had held steady at slightly more than 4 percent of the nation's economic output for three decades and showed no sign of falling. Because sales of new cars are now growing at an average of only one-half of 1 percent a year, prices have inevitably risen faster as cars kept a steady share of consumer spending, he said.
G. Mustafa Mohatarem, the chief economist at G.M., and W. Van Bussman, Chrysler's corporate economist, made similar points, although Mr. Bussman noted that consumer installment debt had reached a record 19.7 percent of household disposable income, possibly limiting the room for many Americans to borrow more money.
Mr. Zimmerman was especially critical of the view that the widening gap in the distribution of income had left fewer Americans able to afford new cars. Car makers still market cars to buyers with a range of incomes, he said, and the poorest one-fifth of all Americans have never accounted for a large share of new-car sales.
But Sean P. McAlinden, the manager of automotive economic studies at the University of Michigan, said that there were signs that car makers were chasing ever more affluent consumers while charging higher and higher prices. "The middle market that G.M. built and that is the basis of Ford and Chrysler, is dying," he said.
Ford has been the most aggressive of the big car makers in pushing up prices recently, notably for its best-selling car, the Taurus. Sales of the redesigned Taurus have been weak, a pattern that Ford executives attribute to such factors as their decision to reduce sales to rental-car fleets because of the low profit margins for such transactions. But some Ford dealers have already been pressing for discounts on the Taurus. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER FRAUD ACT (NJ); PUBLIC OPINION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MINIVANS (76%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (74%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CURTIN, RICHARD T VAN BUSSMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



65 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Rises on a Quiet Day, A Peculiarity of 3-Way Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly higher against leading currencies in quiet trading yesterday, strengthening as the Japanese yen came under pressure in Europe.
Investors have been seeking currencies with better value than the yen, causing the Japanese currency to sink in recent days, traders said. The trend continued yesterday, exacerbated slightly by the absence of Japanese trading. Markets in Japan were closed until tomorrow for a three-day holiday. 
 "There's a lot of money coming out of yen into other currencies," said Margaret Kudarauskas, senior foreign-exchange analyst at Technical Data in Boston. "There's a general preference for higher-yielding currencies, and the feeling is that Japanese interest rates will not go up soon."
The dollar gained against the German mark, which was weakened in Europe, where the outlook for interest rates favored currencies like the Swiss franc and the Italian lira.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 103.92 yen, up from 103.40 late Friday. It changed hands at 1.4367 marks, up from 1.4366 on Friday.
The yen has weakened amid political uncertainty, weakness in banking and a stronger interest-rate outlook in Europe and the United States, compared with Japan.
Strength in some European currencies has also helped the dollar against the yen because investors must sometimes exchange yen for dollars before buying European currencies.
Dealers attributed the dollar's strength yesterday to that factor, rather than to any fundamental changes in perceptions of the dollar's strength. Trading was thin on the first market day of the new year, and the dollar was unable to break through the 104-yen level, a technical barrier that would presumably set off sell orders to capture profits.
"That kept the lid on dollar-yen," Ms. Kudarauskas of Technical Point said.
But the dollar is underpinned by surging American stock and bond markets and from expectations that Congressional leaders will reach an agreement with President Clinton to balance the budget.
In other currency trading, the Mexican peso strengthened against the dollar as the Mexican stock market rose sharply. In New York, the peso edged up to 13 United States cents from 12.9 cents on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (97%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



66 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Graphics' Stock Falls on Profit Outlook

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan 2

 BODY:
Shares in Silicon Graphics Inc. tumbled 16 percent today after the company said it expected to report lower earnings for its fiscal third quarter.
Silicon Graphics said its earnings would fall below both the comparable 1994 quarter and Wall Street analysts' estimates. 
 Filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission indicate Silicon Graphics executives sold shares prior to today's announcement. A spokeswoman said the sales reflected normal volumes for the executives named, plus one large sale by an executive whose company was acquired by Silicon Graphics last year.
Silicon Graphics shares dropped $4.375, to close at $23.25 on the New York Stock Exchange, after trading at a new 52-week low of $22, less than half the high of $45.625 reached on July 13. Analysts said the company was likely to underperform for the next two quarters as well, and that to the extent its disappointing results reflected broad economic trends, they could bode ill for competitors, like the Hewlett-Packard Company and Sun Microsystems Inc.
For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Silicon Graphics said it expected to report net income of approximately 30 cents a share on revenue of $675 million. The company had profit of 34 cents a share on revenues of $550 million for the comparable period a year earlier. Wall Street's consensus estimate was 42 cents a share. The company will announce actual results on Jan. 17.
"Our revenue growth rate in North America and Europe did not meet our expectations," Edward R. McCracken, Silicon Graphics' chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. "Contributing factors in North America include a slowdown in sales to the U.S. Government, caused in part by budget uncertainties, and lower revenues from our O.E.M. channels," he said, referring to original equipment manufacturers who resell Silicon Graphics products under their own brand names.
Mr. McCracken said the company's European results were affected by economic slowdowns in Germany, France and Britain.
Separately, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission indicate Mr. McCracken sold 60,000 shares at $36 to $36.98 each in late November. Robert Burgess, a senior vice president who joined the company when it acquired Alias Research Inc., sold 150,588 shares worth about $5.01 million. Jill Grossman, a spokeswoman, said Mr. Burgess had been blocked from selling shares following the merger.
Doug van Dorsten, an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist, said Silicon Graphics was also struggling with introducing a new product and with an influx of new salespeople. "They've got a major product transition this month, so there's a certain amount of trying to sell old product and being supply constrained on the new," he said, adding that he did not expect a return to strong growth until the September quarter.
Although Silicon Graphics is best known for producing the computer work stations on which Hollywood film makers create special effects, the bulk of the company's business still comes from auto makers, military contractors and other customers more vulnerable to slowdowns in capital expenditures.
"Despite these disappointments, we believe that our revenue growth rate indicates increasing market share and that our operating profitability compares favorably with that of our industry," Mr. McCracken said. "Our fundamental competitive position remains favorable." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SGI (NASDAQ) (94%); HPQ (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SILICON GRAPHICS INC SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (94%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (69%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (69%); ALIAS/WAVEFRONT INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (51%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SILICON GRAPHICS INC SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MERGERS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); ACQUISITIONS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



67 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

AT&T to Cut 40,000 Jobs And Take $6 Billion Charge
AT&T announced that it would eliminate 40,000 of its 300,000 jobs -- mostly through layoffs -- over the next three years and charge $6 billion against earnings as it prepared to split into three companies. The goal is to compete better as technological change sweeps the industry. [Page A1.]
 
The cutbacks may portend job losses at the seven regional Bell companies, which have already slashed their payrolls by tens of thousands of workers. They must defend their local monopolies against new rivals. [D2.]
 
Profits Gush, but Dividends Trickle
American companies, though awash in profits, hardly raised dividends last year. Instead they plowed more money back into their businesses and set aside a lot for a rainy day. Still, with stock prices so much higher, shareholders have not been complaining. [A1.]
 
More Irresolution on Budget
Senate Republicans voted to reopen Government offices while Congress and President Clinton continue talks on balancing the Federal budget, but House Republicans showed no interest in going along. They say the shutdown is their only lever to force President Clinton into meaningful negotiations. [A1.]
 
Kerkorian Presses Chrysler
Kirk Kerkorian called on Chrysler to buy back $2 billion of its stock annually until the next recession. His deputy, Jerome B. York, said Chrysler could pay for the stock out of its cash flow without tapping its cash reserve. Chrysler spent $1 billion last year to buy stock. [D16.]
 
RJR Nabisco Loses Plea
The S.E.C., supporting two orders of Roman Catholic priests, rejected an attempt by RJR Nabisco to block a shareholders' proxy resolution calling for a rapid spinoff of the company's food business from its tobacco operations. [D3.]
 
Silicon Graphics Shares Tumble
Silicon Graphics' shares tumbled 16 percent, to $23.25, after the work station maker said it expected the recent quarter's earnings to be well below Wall Street estimates. S.E.C. filings show that the company chairman sold 60,000 shares at prices of $36 or higher in late November. [D5.]
 
In Netscape's Footsteps?
After Wall Street's embrace of Netscape, the Xylan Corporation is hoping for a similar reception when it goes public. Xylan makes a local networking switch, the fastest-growing part of the computer-networking business. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Forte Acts Against Granada
The Forte hotel group of Britain said it would raise its dividend and buy back shares worth more than $800 million in an intensified campaign to thwart a takeover by the Granada Group. Forte's stock rose on the plans, and analysts said Granada would have to increase its offer.[D6.]
 
Disney Picks Property Scout
The founder of Premiere magazine is joining Walt Disney, where she will buy and create properties for the motion picture and television groups. The executive, Susan Lyne, is well regarded in Hollywood, where she knows most of the top players. [D5.]
 
Competition for Utilities
Democrats in New York State put forward a plan to introduce competition into the utility industry by the year 2000. [B2.]
 
Interest Rates Creep Higher
Treasury securities fell in price despite signs that the manufacturing sector was somewhat weaker than the credit markets expected. A lack of progress in the budget talks in Washington contributed to the drop. The 30-year bond yielded 5.96 percent, up from 5.94 percent on Friday. [D13.]
 
New Blood for the Plaza
The new owners of the Plaza Hotel, who are a Saudi prince and a Singapore hotel group, plan to make a number of improvements this year to give the landmark more of the feeling it had when it opened in 1907. But some of the changes will be distinctly modern, like private fax machines. Business Travel. [D5.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,177.45 Up 60.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96% Up 0.02
The Dollar -- 103.92 yen Up 0.52

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); DIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (81%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); XYLAN CORP (81%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%); S E C (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: S E C (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); RELIGION (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); KIRK KERKORIAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



68 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Even With Peace and Rain, Ethiopia Fears Famine

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH 

 BODY:
Ethiopia's farmers recently finished harvesting the biggest crop the country has seen in a decade. The rains were plentiful and, most important, there was peace and stability.
Yet the Ethiopian Government has appealed for 250,000 tons of food aid for 1996 to feed about three million of its people. Though the appeal will be for less than the 400,000 tons of food aid delivered last year, the famine of 1984-85, in which more than a million people died, remains a specter for Ethiopia. 
 "Ethiopians won't be as lucky as they have been this year, that's the problem," said Allen Jones, head of Ethiopia operations for the World Food Program, an arm of the United Nations. "All you need is for the long rains to end three weeks early and you're back in a massive crisis. Fifty-six million people are living right on the edge. It can go the wrong way just as easily as it can go the right way."
United Nations and American officials agree that Ethiopia has the potential to erase its chronic food deficit. But they say there are no quick fixes because Ethiopia faces a legacy of degraded lands, poor road networks, a high birth rate, disease and an agricultural base destroyed by years of civil war and Government policies.
Without aid, hundreds of thousands of Ethiopians will face the risk of starvation while the country is being rebuilt. But experts say that unless Ethiopia can strengthen agriculture, bring down the birth rate and create industries to earn foreign exchange, it will become ever more reliant on donated food.
"The long-term nature of the basic agricultural problem is tougher than anything else in Africa," said David Gordon, an official at the Overseas Development Council, a private research group in Washington.
And in an era of increasing competition for shares of a shrinking foreign aid budget, Ethiopia will have to convince American policy makers that it continues to deserve the large sums it has been receiving since 1991, when rebel groups toppled the Marxist Government and the United States committed hundreds of millions of dollars to help it make the transition to democracy.
"In the end, it largely has to be humanitarian-motivated," Mr. Gordon said of the rationale for continued food aid. "I don't know whether we will have the commitment."
In the Ethiopian countryside, about 80 percent of food aid is distributed in programs requiring recipients to work on Government-run projects in exchange for food as a way to limit dependency on aid. But the distribution of food to additional tens of thousands of poor city-dwellers is still lagging behind.
In the meantime, projections by experts suggest that Ethiopia will face more competition for food assistance in the next few years. By the year 2000, relief officials say, Africa will be growing less than three quarters of the food it needs. But as food requirements increase, aid is drying up. A recently released report by the Food and Agricultural Organization says that the global availability of food aid in 1996 will be 7.6 million tons, one million tons less than 1994 and the lowest since the mid-1970's.
"It comes down to the issue of allocation," said Margaret Bonner, director of the United States Agency for International Development in Ethiopia. "Where do you put your resources? In a place like Ethiopia, where you try to move people toward sustainability, or in Somalia or Rwanda? Part of the problem of foreign assistance is that we as the U.S. Government and people are very willing to respond in emergencies, but we don't have the funding to follow up."
Ethiopia is the world's poorest country after Mozambique. Until the early 1980's, it was self-sufficient in food, but its agricultural output was destroyed by the civil war, the policies of the Marxist Government of Mengistu Haile Mariam and the forced relocation of 1.5 million farmers.
All the while, the number of mouths to feed has continued to grow. Ethiopia's population is growing at more than 3 percent a year and is expected to double in the next 20 years. Only 4 percent of urban women use birth control and hardly any use family-planning methods in the countryside, Ms. Bonner said. With 50 percent of the population under the poverty level for developing countries, the average Ethiopian subsists on half the caloric intake of the average American.
But even though population growth has outstripped agricultural potential, focusing on population control without increasing incomes is "like putting the cart before the horse," said Tom Sheehy, a policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research center in Washington.
Even an extensive famine would do little to alleviate the country's long-term needs for food, analysts say. "The reduction of population is not the ultimate aim of development," said Henry Gordon, an economist and independent consultant who has worked in Africa for almost a decade. "You have to create the process to generate growth in the economy and that in itself will bring the population down."
More than 95 percent of Ethiopians are subsistence farmers, plowing their small plots with oxen and wooden plows. Fertile lands in the highlands suffer from severe soil degradation, erosion and extensive deforestation. In the lowlands, farmers must cope with malaria and tsetse flies, which can carry parasites that cause sleeping sickness. There are occasional but deadly infestations of locusts and army worms.
Experts agree that for Ethiopia to become self-sufficient, it must put more land under cultivation. But because land is still owned by the Government, farmers cannot use it as collateral to raise loans to expand their crops. Government officials say state ownership of land prevents farmers from selling their land during drought and joining the destitute in the cities. Yet American foreign policy analysts say the Ethiopian Government's reluctance to privatize land is a major stumbling block to receiving foreign aid.
Even if farmers have a good crop, they have no place to store it on their land and cannot solve problems relating to transportation and marketing. Roads are often unpaved and virtually impassable, complicating shipment of food to areas of the country in need and only aggravating gluts of food in areas of good harvests. Thus a bountiful crop will only flood the local market with food, bringing prices down.
"There's an awful lot that needs to get done, not just good rains," said Ms. Bonner of the Agency for International Development. Last year, she added, "shows there is a light at the end of the tunnel. But the problem remains. One year doesn't do it."
Asaye Demlay, a farmer in Lalibala, in the northern province of Wallo, is one of the three million Ethiopians who are in need of the food aid this year. Mr. Demlay said he had coaxed a stunted crop from his rocky fields, only enough sorghum, peas and tef, a cereal used to make Ethiopia's traditional bread, to last his family through the first four months of the year.
The harvest, in early December, was grim for many farmers in Wallo province, a barren and harsh region of immense, arid plateaus fractured by ravines and jagged canyons, where hundreds of thousands of farmers eke out a meager and almost always insufficient existence.
"I don't know about the future," said Mr. Demlay, 38, who has four children and grows his crops on about an acre. "Every year, we grow less and less food. My children eat meat only once a year, at Easter."
"This year I will sell my animals to buy food because I don't want to die," Mr. Demlay said. "After that? Then I will wait to die."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Even after the best harvest in a decade, Ethiopia has fallen short of being able to feed itself. Officials say foreign food aid will be needed for years while other international development programs provide more modern technologies to replace practices like the use of cattle to thresh grain; While the rugged landscape around Lalibala, Ethiopia, contributes to the difficulty of getting goods to market, uncertain rainfall is the leading natural barrier to the country's quest for self-sufficiency in food. (Photographs by David Guttenfelder for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) THE LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN LTD (53%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA; ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FAMINE; AGRICULTURE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHORTAGES; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); FAMINE (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); CIVIL WAR (86%); TRENDS (86%); STARVATION (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



69 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: RECORD EARNINGS, BUT LESS SHARING

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
American companies, though awash in profits in 1995, decided not to make large increases in their payments to shareholders and workers. Instead they plowed more money back into their businesses and set aside a lot for a rainy day.
While more American companies raised dividends in 1995 than in any year since 1981, the increases did not come close to keeping up with rising profits, according to figures released yesterday. As a result, it appears that corporations paid out a record low proportion of their profits to shareholders. 
 "In terms of profits, dividends are rather sparse," said Arnold Kaufman, the editor of The Outlook, a newsletter published by Standard & Poor's, which calculates dividend figures. But he said that with stock prices soaring, shareholders have not been complaining and added that he thought companies "rather like the flexibility" provided by not devoting a lot of their profits to dividends.
If shareholders saw small gains, so did employees. Government figures indicate that compensation expenses for American business, including both wages and benefits, rose about 2.7 percent last year, the lowest for any year since the Government began to track that information in 1981.
Business also succeeded in bringing down its cost of health care, which fell for the first time since 1981, according to the Labor Department. For American workers, the stagnant paychecks came atop a wave of insecurities caused by countless job cutbacks in American industry.
Much of the money companies have spent has gone to investment in new plant and equipment, said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Capital Investments International, a New York investment advisory firm. Such spending appears to have risen about 10 percent last year.
But a lot of the money has been salted away for a rainy day or perhaps more appropriately for a recessionary year by companies worried that the boom years will fade.
The figures released yesterday by S.& P. showed that 1,907 companies announced dividend increases in 1995, up 4.4 percent from 1,826 in the year earlier and the most for any year since 1981. At the same time, the number of companies announcing bad news -- either a reduction or elimination of a payout -- fell to 128 from 136 in 1994. It was the smallest such figure since S.& P. began keeping count in 1955.
Mr. Kaufman said that while final figures for 1995 profits would not be in for some time, the current estimate was that companies in the S.& P. 500 index paid out just 37.5 percent of their after-tax profits to shareholders. If that figure stands up, it will be the lowest since that statistical series began in 1928. The old low mark came in 1979, when just 38 percent of profits were paid out. In 1994, the ratio was 43 percent.
The figures indicate what a golden age this is for corporate managers. International competition has helped to hold down compensation costs for many companies, thus pushing up profits. But with shareholders generally happy, there has been little pressure to raise dividends, leaving companies with more freedom to invest the profits as they see fit. Over all, Government figures indicate that corporate profits amount to about 10 percent of national income, up from 7.5 percent as recently as 1991 and the highest since 1978, Mr. Barbera said.
Corporate profits last year hit a record in dollars, both for the economy as a whole and for the companies in the S.& P. 500 index, but they are not close to a peak in terms of national income. On that basis, the figure was at 14 percent in 1966, Mr. Barbera said.
As 1995 ended, it appeared that companies might be even less eager to pay money to shareholders.
The amount of cash paid to shareholders in S.& P. 500 companies in December was below the amount paid a year earlier, and the number of companies raising dividends was just 136, the lowest for any December since 1992 and 21 percent below 1994's level. It was the sharpest monthly plunge since July 1991, when increases were 23 percent below the figure a year earlier. Uncertainties brought on by the Persian Gulf war and the 1990 recession helped explain that decline.
While one-month figures can be volatile, and the November figure was strong, this one comes at the beginning of the heaviest period of dividend increases. Many companies make the decisions on annual payouts in December, January or February as annual profits become clear.
If there is to be a slowdown in dividend increases, it could indicate that companies are nervous about the continuance of the strong profits shown in 1995. It is humiliating for a company to raise its payout and then later have to lower it, and payout increases therefore often lag earnings growth. Mr. Kaufman estimated that earnings of the companies in the S.& P. 500 were up 19.9 percent in 1995, but the amount of dividends paid by those same companies rose just 4.6 percent.
Alternatively, the relatively low level of payouts could indicate that more corporations are concluding that they do not need to pay much in dividends to attract shareholders, who have profited greatly from rising stock prices. While it is widely believed that there has been a sharp increase in corporate stock repurchases -- an alternative way of getting cash to shareholders -- some studies have questioned whether that many shares are being bought on a net basis, after adjusting for shares issued through stock options programs for managers and other employees.
As stock prices soared in 1995, bears pointed to the plunging dividend yield on stocks as a sign the market was overvalued, while bulls insisted that stocks were not unreasonably priced relative to earnings expectations. At the end of the year, the stocks in the S.& P. 500 were paying dividends at an annual rate of $14.21, assuming that investors spent $615.93, the level of the index, buying fractional shares in each company. That produced an anticipated dividend yield of 2.31 percent, just above the record low of 2.29 percent, set earlier in December.
Before 1995, the dividend yield had never gone below 2.6 percent, and when it got close to that level, as it did in late 1972 and in the summer of 1987, it was a sign of impending bad news for the stock market. But so far this time, the stock market has moved onward and upward even as dividend yields plunged.
Relative to profits, however, the S.& P. 500 ended 1995 at less than 17 times that year's earnings, based on Mr. Kaufman's estimates. That is not a low figure, but it is well below the 1987 peak of about 22.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Shareholders' Rewards" tracks annual number of dividend changes by United States companies from 1960 through 1995. (Source: Standard & Poor's); "Holding Back" tracks total dividend payments to stockholders as a percentage of after-tax profits, for companies in the S. & P. index of 500 stocks. Profit figures run from 1930 through an estimated 1995. (Source: Standard & Poor's) (pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; DIVIDENDS; COMPANY REPORTS STOCK INDEXES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); STATISTICS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD ARNOLD KAUFMAN (69%); ROBERT BARBERA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



70 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Bonds Lower Despite Weak Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The price of Treasury securities ended lower yesterday, despite signs that the manufacturing sector was somewhat weaker than the credit markets had expected. A lack of progress in the budget talks in Washington contributed to the price drop.
By late in the day the price of the 30-year bond was down 9/32 of a percentage point, to 112 20/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.96 percent, from 5.94 percent on Friday. 
 The report from the National Association of Purchasing Management suggested that inflation was not about to accelerate. Other data released yesterday included the Johnson Redbook Service, which showed that sales at department, chain and discount stores declined six-tenths of 1 percent in December from a month earlier. That report underscored the sluggish pace of holiday sales.
At the Treasury's first weekly auction of new bills in the new year, rates came in mixed. The average rate for a three-month maturity rose 13 basis points, to 5.04 percent, while the rate for a six-month issue declined by one basis point, to 5.03 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist of CS First Boston, said he believed the general trend was toward lower rates. "The idea of the market moving sideways," he said, "has to be understood as being in that definition of a lower rate environment."
Mr. Alexy said that rates over 6 percent would probably bring in buyers. Their only risk, he said, is if the economy proves to be slower than perceived.
"I'm not so sure that the entire movement we have seen in bonds is based solely only the idea of a budget agreement being reached," Mr. Alexy said. He also noted that overseas interest rates had also been moving steadily lower.
With prices moving higher last week in very little activity and in the absence of much economic information, "it's not uncommon to see the market go back to test those levels," Mr. Alexy said. "The reports we see today are consistent with what we've been seeing: a very slow and sub par economic growth."
Traders said the purchasing management survey of business conditions in December helped bring the market back from steep early losses. The National Association of Purchasing Management's index read 47.3 in the latest report, for December, versus forecasts by economists of 48.1, and compared with November's reading of 46.5.
A reading below 50 indicates declining activity in the manufacturing sector, while an index below 44 indicates a declining economy overall.
Analysts said that in the report, production rose, as did supplies, inventories, employment, imports and new export orders. But new orders and prices fell.
Many market participants were surprised that conditions were not as strong as reports issued last week by regional purchasing managers. The market sees weak economic data as increasing the chances of further interest rate cut by the Fed to help stimulate the economy, regardless of whether there is a budget settlement. The last rate cut two weeks ago came without a budget settlement.
Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said the details of the purchasing managers' report "are extremely favorable from a bond market perspective, suggesting continued slow growth with little inflationary pressures." She added, "The importance of these data is even greater than usual due to the absence of the official set of Government statistics." Even if the Government agencies reopen this week, no official data are likely to be released before next week.
Elsewhere, municipal bonds were little changed as some investors predicted that the rally that propelled the market in 1995 would slow this year. But others remained optimistic.
"This year could mark the second year in a row that the municipal bond market may see the number of bonds redeemed outpace the number of new issues," said Michael S. Applebaum, senior vice president for investments at Paine Webber. Mr. Appelbaum said that in January alone, $30 billion in municipal bonds would be redeemed due to bond calls, pre-refunding or maturing issues. These dynamics should exert upward pressure on prices, he said.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.726	97.443	Discounted Rate	5.04%	5.03%	Coupon Yield	5.19%	5.25%	High Price	98.731	97.453	Discounted Rate	5.02%	5.01%	Coupon Yield	5.17%	5.23%	Low Price	98.723	97.443	Discounted Rate	5.05%	5.03%	Coupon Yield	5.20%	5.25%	Accepted at low price	19%	31%	Total applied for	$46,394,162	$46,005,327	Accepted	$14,065,853	$14,053,931	Noncompetitive	$1,301,295	$1,143,823	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 4, 1996. The three-month bills mature on April 4, 1996, and the six-month bills mature on July 5, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (67%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); RETAIL SALES (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MATTHEW F ALEXY (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



71 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Kerkorian's Plan for Chrysler: Buy Back $2 Billion a Year

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Kirk Kerkorian's campaign for the Chrysler Corporation to give more cash back to shareholders called today for the auto maker to buy back $2 billion of its stock annually until the next recession.
Jerome B. York, the vice chairman of Mr. Kerkorian's Tracinda Corporation, which owns 14.1 percent of Chrysler stock, said in a speech here that Chrysler could pay for the stock out of its cash flow without robbing the cash reserve that the company says it has been saving for the next sales downturn. While Mr. York has been pushing for additional stock buybacks or dividend increases, his comments today represented the first specific numbers to date for what would satisfy Mr. Kerkorian. 
 "Chrysler can afford a minimum of $2 billion a year of share repurchase from 1996 and forward, at least until a recession comes," Mr. York said. Chrysler will have plenty in profits to pay out that amount to shareholders, he said. Chrysler spent $1 billion last year to buy back stock.
Mr. York previously criticized the company for setting a target of $7.5 billion for its cash reserves, which it has nearly met and which he argued was $2 billion to $2.5 billion too high. Mr. York said today that the buyback money should come straight from profits, and he did not repeat his call for Chrysler to cut its reserves.
Analysts said Chrysler was likely to be able to afford Mr. York's buyback demand. "Given analysts' estimates for 1996, it is highly feasible; a recession year is a different story," said Scott F. Merlis, the president of Merlis Automotive International, an independent automotive research company based in Westport, Conn.
The key question in Chrysler's struggle with Tracinda involves how much of a cash reserve the company needs to survive the next recession, and how much it needs to invest in new models and factories. Mr. York has said Chrysler is too conservative about its prospects.
Chrysler declined to comment on Mr. York's demands.
Mr. York said today that he had spoken to 15 of the company's institutional investors over the last month and that all but a couple of them expected continued economic growth. But the pessimistic investors are worried that the economy may already be heading into a recession, he said. Such investors might be expected to oppose Tracinda's efforts to push Chrysler into a more aggressive business strategy.
Mr. York said that "several" of the investors had volunteered to support Tracinda's efforts, although he had not yet asked for a commitment from them. He plans to speak this month to 25 more institutional shareholders.
Mr. York said in an interview after the speech that he would be satisfied if part of the $2 billion came in the form of dividend increases rather than share buybacks.
He reiterated that Chrysler should sell its $3 billion in nonautomotive assets, but that the stock buyback could proceed without the proceeds of such a sale.
Tracinda has been locked in a battle with Chrysler since last spring. Tracinda first tried to buy Chrysler but failed to line up financing for the deal.
Mr. York, a former Chrysler chief financial officer who spoke at a lunch here of the Society of Automotive Analysts, argued that Chrysler could afford the buybacks because it had an inherent profit advantage over other auto makers. Mr. York contended that because Chrysler produces more high-profit mini-vans and sport utility vehicles than other auto makers, it earns about $500 in additional profit per vehicle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; TRACINDA CORP TRACINDA CORP (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; TRACINDA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN; KERKORIAN, KIRK KIRK KERKORIAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



72 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Goes On, Purchasers Say

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz., Jan. 2

 BODY:
The manufacturing sector slowed in December for the fifth consecutive month while prices that manufacturers paid fell to their lowest level in more than four years, the nation's purchasing managers said today.
The National Association of Purchasing Management, based in Tempe, said its index was up slightly in December, at 47.3 percent, from 46.5 percent in November. 
 Although the index gained, the reading below 50 percent still indicated that manufacturing activity was declining last month, although at a slower rate than in November. A reading above 50 percent indicates growth.
"The manufacturing sector contracted for the fifth month in December, with production, new orders, and employment all indicating decreased activity," said Ralph Kauffman, who heads the association's Business Survey Committee.
The group's price index fell to 40.8 percent last month from 44.5 percent in November, the lowest reading since July 1991.
Today's report was awaited with especially keen interest by the financial markets because the Government has canceled most economic reports during the budget impasse in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NEW ORDERS (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (88%); BUDGETS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: RALPH F KAUFFMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



73 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Coptic Church in U.S. Receives a Bishop

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Visiting 10,000 households would be a prodigious task for even the most enthusiastic politician or energetic salesman, but that is the promise Bishop Serapion of the Coptic Orthodox Church in Southern California has made to worshipers.
"It is a great task, but even if it takes three or four years I will do it," the newly appointed bishop said in an interview from his home. 
 After more than 10 years of requests to the patriarch in Egypt, Pope Shenouda III, the small but growing Coptic community here finally received word in November that it would have a bishop to lead and unify it. He is the first bishop of the Coptic Orthodox Church to be installed in North America. A second bishop has also been appointed to the Southern states and will be installed later.
When Bishop Serapion begins visiting community households -- five a day, three times a week for prayer and conversation -- he said he would not begin with the rich or the influential families as is often the case.
"The priests asked me," he recalled, " 'do you want to start with the top or the low?' I said with the low."
The Coptic community has grown steadily in the past 15 years. In 1980 Los Angeles had three Coptic churches. Today, 13 are spread across the county. Nationwide, the bishop estimates that 150,000 to 200,000 Copts form about 60 congregations, with about a third of the population making up 14 congregations in New York and New Jersey.
The growth of the church in the United States has been fueled by immigration from Egypt. While many Copts said they immigrated mainly for educational and economic opportunities, others acknowledged the difficulty of living as a Christian in the predominately Muslim Egypt.
"Copts in Egypt feel oppression," Bishop Serapion said, noting that even a good student at a university has little chance to enter a profession like teaching.
According to church tradition, the Coptic Orthodox Church was founded in the first century by St. Mark in Egypt. The church is part of the family of the Oriental Orthodox Churches of Syria, Armenia and Ethiopia and is historically related to the Eastern Orthodox churches, like the Greek and Russian Orthodox Churches. The church is similar to the Catholic Church in many ways, but the two disagree on some dogmatic issues.
The bishop's recent arrival was greeted with joy and relief from members of the community.
"It is like a dream come true," Wafik Bichai of Los Angeles said.
Father Bishoy Bastawros of St. Athanasius Coptic Church in Los Angeles stressed the importance of having "father for the fathers." "Some problems can't be solved by the priests," Father Bastawros said. "It is important to have someone who has the authority."
In the past, a couple requesting a divorce would have had to wait for a visit from a bishop in Egypt. Divorces are only granted in the church in cases of adultery or conversion, and not by priests. Other questions have also surfaced as a result of the blending of American and Coptic traditions, Father Bastawros said.
Some churches have come to celebrate the new year on Dec. 31 in addition to Sept. 11, the Coptic new year -- a practice some church members find objectionable. The bishop said he could resolve such disputes. But a more tangled and controversial question is whether to celebrate Christmas on Dec. 25 instead of Jan. 7, when the Orthodox churches celebrate the Nativity. This question can only be answered at the highest level of the church.
In addition to working within the church and providing pastoral care to the faithful, the bishop said he planned to form relationships with other churches and community groups.
With a bishop to represent the Coptic community, many here hope that the church will gain greater prominence within Los Angeles and that members will become more fully integrated into the political and social fabric.
"We are here in this society," the bishop said. "We like this society and we want to contribute to the society."
Many Copts living in the United States grew up under repressive Egyptian regimes and tended to be skeptical of the political process and were reluctant to take part. But the bishop said he hoped to change this by encouraging voter registration and full civic participation.
"Being part of society is not against your spiritual life," he said. "It is a duty."
But as Egyptians, the bishop said, community members sometimes face the added challenge of being stereotyped by some who believe that all Arabs are Islamic fundamentalists and terrorists.
"One of the personal problems is we dress like Khomeini," the bishop said with a hearty laugh, glancing down at his traditional black robes and gesturing to his silk headdress. But he said that with a little outreach and explanation, it would be possible to combat the stereotype.
A more pressing dilemma for the church, he said, is keeping the youth connected and interested. For children, the pressure to assimilate is great -- a problem faced by many immigrant communities, he said.
The bishop said he was not "advocating Egyptian culture" but rather trying to teach the younger generation to embrace Coptic Christian values. As for American culture, the Bishop said he hoped the young people would not "imitate everything," but rather pick the best things.
"They are facing the culture in the house and the culture in the society," Bishop Serapion said. "They want to be normal members of society, not strange members."
One change taking place to help youths feel more comfortable in the church is to use English rather than Arabic and ancient Coptic at services.
During much of his installation ceremony on Dec. 23, the bishop spoke in English. That touch, said Kamel Tadros, a church member attending the service, helped to include the young people.
The bishop said that, over all, he hoped to bring a unity to the community that was not possible while the churches operated independently without a bishop.
"I am like the thread that binds the balls of the rosary together," Bishop Serapion said he told a meeting of priests recently.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After asking their patriarch in Egypt for a bishop for 10 years, the Coptic community in Southern California has welcomed Bishop Serapion, who served communion on Sunday at St. John Coptic Church in Covina, Calif. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SYRIA (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SYRIA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ORTHODOX CHURCHES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COPTIC CHURCHES RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MEN (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); IMMIGRATION (64%); 

PERSON: SERAPION (BISHOP) BISHOP SERAPION (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



74 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Essex Chief to Enforce '78 Residency Law for County Employees

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 2

 BODY:
For more than 17 years, Essex County has had a law on the books requiring employees to live within the county, but nobody paid attention. Today, the County Executive announced that he plans to enforce that law, giving hundreds of full-time and part-time employees the choice of moving by July or losing their jobs.
In announcing the unexpected change, which will almost certainly be challenged in court by labor unions, the County Executive, James W. Treffinger, said he had two aims: to make county employees more sensitive to the impact of their work and to plow their $44 million a year in salaries and benefits into the local economy. 
 The effects of the policy will be watched closely by other governments throughout the New York region since many have wrestled with both the legality and practicality of forcing employees to live where they work. It is a debate that goes back to George Washington, but there is no broad consensus on how it should be resolved. Nassau and Suffolk counties have residency laws, while Westchester County eliminated its law because soaring property values made some jobs hard to fill.
"If they live here, if they are themselves taxpayers, it makes them better realize that it is their money that they are dealing with," Mr. Treffinger said, noting that his two personal assistants and about eight senior department heads would be affected by the change. He said an initial search by the county's Personnel Department -- whose own chief does not live in the county -- turned up 600 to 700 people hired since the law was enacted in 1978 who do not meet the residency requirement. Mr. Treffinger, who said hundreds more may be disguising their actual residency, said he did not know why the Essex law had not been strictly enforced.
The County Executive said he did not know what immediate symbolic or practical impact the change might have on the government in Essex County, which has a total 770,000 residents spread among some of the richest neighborhoods in the state, like Short Hills, and some of its poorest, most crime-ridden urban blocks, in Newark. But he argued that a government facing a $161 million deficit in a county with a 7.5 percent unemployment rate had to do everything within its means to improve local economic conditions.
Union officials said Mr. Treffinger, who has said repeatedly that county government should be eliminated entirely and who has cut more than 400 county jobs, was using this as a means to reduce the public payroll.
"It will be a severe hardship for people to uproot themselves and their families to come to Essex County to live," said David H. Weiner, president of Local 1081 of the Communications Workers of America, which represents 800 employees. "Forcing people to chose between where they have put down roots and where they work is insensitive, to say the least."
Union lawyers said they were still waiting to see the exact wording of the policy to grapple with how it might be challenged in court, especially on constitutional grounds. Although many municipal governments enacted residency requirements after a 1978 state law that overcame a previous constitutional challenge, enforcement has been spotty.
Richard A. Dann, president of the Communications Workers of America local in Gloucester County, which also has a residency requirement, said most city and county governments do not want to go through the sleuthing through driver records and tax returns required to find out who is obeying the law.
"As a practical matter, most municipalities don't care too much because it is a nuisance to enforce," Mr. Dann said. "If they applied it strictly the way the law required, they would lose a lot of employees. People will say, 'If I have to live here, then I quit.' "
The policy announcement today put Mr. Treffinger, a Republican who took over in 1995 after years of Democratic rule, at loggerheads with some of the most high-profile figures in his government. Sheriff Armando B. Fontura said he thought his 470 officers and other employees would be exempt, but the County Executive stressed that he would keep exemptions to a minimum, including law enforcement officers.
Ray Weiss, the spokesman for County Prosecutor Clifford J. Minor, said the prosecutor would be making a statement about the issue, but none was released. Many of the 120 lawyers in his office are believed to live outside the county, and several live outside the state. A combination of laughter and disbelief spread through the office as employees photocopied the letter announcing the policy that is being mailed to all 4,950 employees today.
"I don't think it is fair to force people to live here," said Robert Storino, a clerk for an Essex County judge. Mr. Storino said he hoped he could continue living in Bergen County until his clerkship ended in September. "I think ultimately they are going to limit the pool of applicants for jobs here."
Mr. Treffinger's office and union officials identified the most senior figures living outside the county as Brenda Veltri Possumato, the director of personnel; Wayne Hassenbalg, the treasurer; Paul Goldenberg, director of the Department of Citizen Services; Barry L. Ruben, head of employment and training; Jeff L. Bertrand, head of community development, and Ronald Manzella, head of the Department of Corrections. None returned telephone calls seeking comment.
Anyone hired before the law took effect in September 1978 would not be required to move into the city. Mr. Treffinger said he was creating a special committee to enforce the policy and to hear any appeals. The law states that anyone with special expertise might be considered exempt, but the County Executive said he was confident that clause would be little used.
Most counties in the region that do have residency requirements exempt specific blocks of employees. In Nassau County, for example, the 10-year requirement that anyone hired be a resident for at least one year does not apply to about 3,000 employees of the Police Department. Suffolk, on the other hand, makes few exceptions for its 10,000 employees and they have to be approved by the County Legislature case by case, said Tim Ryan, the spokesman for the Suffolk County Executive's office.
In New Jersey, Hudson County exempts hospital workers and employees in the prosecutor's office from the residency requirement under a law that allows for outside hiring when there are not enough qualified residents. Of 3,071 county employees, 159 are nonresidents, said Brian K. Dorf, a spokesman for the County Executive's office.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Essex County, N.J." lists the county figures for population, employees, and income. (Source: Essex County Executive; Census Bureau) (pg. B4)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Essex County. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESSEX COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; TREFFINGER, JAMES W (COUNTY EXEC) JAMES W TREFFINGER (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



75 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Special Charges At PNC Bank

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The PNC Bank Corporation announced yesterday that losses from the sale of interest-rate-sensitive securities and costs related to its purchase of the Midlantic Corporation would sharply reduce earnings for 1995.
PNC, the nation's 11th-largest bank company, said it would record $190 million in losses from the elimination of derivatives and other securities in its portfolio, in an effort to reduce its exposure to interest-rate fluctuations. 
 PNC, which is based in Pittsburgh, said it would incur another $190 million in costs in the acquisition of Midlantic, which was completed Friday.
All told, PNC said it expected to post earnings of $410 million, or $1.18 a share, for 1995. Analysts had estimated profits of $2.41 a share, according to Zachs Investment Research.
PNC shares fell 75 cents yesterday, to $31.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
PNC said that excluding the charges, it would earn $790 million, or $2.28 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PNC BANK; MIDLANTIC CORP PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (93%); PNC BANK NA (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PNC BANK; MIDLANTIC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



76 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Save Allegany State Park

 BODY:
Allegany State Park covers 100 square miles in western New York State, just north of the Pennsylvania border. Established in 1921, it contains a unique blend of old-growth hardwoods, including stands of ancient cherry unmatched anywhere else in the country. The state's Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, Bernadette Castro, is considering a plan to open the forest to commercial logging. A similar plan floated in 1982 was rejected after a public outcry. This one should be rejected as well.
Commercial timber interests have their eyes on the 100-year-old cherry stands. Unfinished logs, shipped to Japan or Europe for veneer, can bring in as much as $15,000 apiece. Ms. Castro's office says the decision will be made purely on the grounds of science, not economics. This is heartening, because outside of short-term economic gain there is no rationale for opening this forest to logging. 
 The case for logging is couched in euphemistic language that never mentions cutting trees but refers instead to "resource management." The argument is that the old-growth trees do not allow for "intermediate succession" species, and the wildlife that prefers that kind of growth. But the kind of wildlife that likes that sort of landscape -- deer -- are already plentiful in the region, as is the "intermediate succession" forest, 750,000 acres of which surround the park now.
The park abuts the Allegheny National Forest on its southern border and is surrounded to the west, north and northeast by the Seneca Indian reservation. It is home to many species that require big, contiguous expanses of forest, including the black bear, bobcat, sharp-shinned hawk and pileated woodpecker.
The "management plan" makes a specious claim to be promoting biodiversity while doing exactly the opposite. In the name of creating room for species already common throughout the state, it would destroy the park's unique ecosystem.
The ancient hardwoods in Allegany State Park are worth millions if harvested, but they cannot be replaced for generations. If Commissioner Castro truly intends to keep economics out of her decision, there is no rationale for this plan. The forest has been doing very well by itself. It does not need this sort of "management."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLEGANY STATE PARK (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; EDITORIALS; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS STATE PARKS (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); HISTORY (72%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, BERNADETTE (COMR) CLARE SHORT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



77 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Our 2 Cents' Worth

BYLINE: By Carol Ann Rinzler and Perry Luntz; Carol Ann Rinzler is the author of "Estrogen and Breast Cancer: A Warning to Women." Perry Luntz, her husband, is the publisher of an international trade newsletter.

 BODY:
Almost exactly a year ago, Congress passed the Congressional Accountability Act, a much ballyhooed measure that requires the House and Senate to abide by the workplace and civil rights laws they enact for the rest of us. Alas, like so many things in life, this long-overdue legislation turns out to be less than meets the eye.
In an effort to minimize the effects of the Government shutdown on their constituents, Republicans in the House proposed last week that furloughed Federal employees go back to work without being paid, surely a new idea in free-market, conservative economics. 
 Afterward, someone asked Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, whether he would consider giving up his own salary during the crisis. No way, said Mr. DeLay, explaining that, like every other member of Congress, he isn't a Federal employee -- he is a "constitutional officer."
Well, we've reread our copy of the Constitution, and frankly the distinction seems a bit arcane to us.
True, members of Congress are specifically mentioned in the Constitution. Article I, Section 6, says that "Senators and Representatives shall receive a compensation for their services, to be ascertained by law and paid out of the Treasury of the United States." Cabinet members and Federal judges also get a mention, later on, but other workers -- curators at the Smithsonian, say -- do not.
But every Federal paycheck originates in an appropriation requiring money from the Treasury, whose funds come, in large part, from income taxes. That should give everyone of us the inalienable right to put in our 2 cents. Or to take it out.
Members of the House and Senate earn a base salary of $133,600 a year (those in leadership positions get more). And don't forget the generous benefit package: life insurance, health insurance, per diem travel and a nifty pension. Mr. DeLay's base salary alone costs each of America's more than 115 million individual taxpayers 1.2 cents a year.
As conscientious citizens, we have always paid our taxes, regardless of our political gripes. Even though one of us was tear-gassed in 1971 by an overzealous guard at the Nixon White House, protecting it from throngs of balding, middle-aged Vietnam War protesters and their children, the Internal Revenue Service got paid the following year anyway.
This time, however, we plan to draw a line in the sand. Having voted to obey its own laws, members of Congress should be man (or woman) enough to live up to that requirement. Before Tom DeLay votes for trimming Medicare, he should whittle down his own government-financed health insurance. If he expects Federal workers to show up for free, so should he.
Until then, he can forget our helping to pay his salary. Come April 15, our joint tax return will be 2 cents short. That ought to send a message: keeping Congress in line is a hard job, but somebody has to do it.

GRAPHIC: Illustration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 1 THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1995 (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MEDICARE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); INCOME TAX (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); CHILDREN (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); JUDGES (51%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: RINZLER, CAROL ANN; LUNTZ, PERRY RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



78 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: The Time Bomb in Governor Whitman's Tax Cut

BYLINE: By Neil Upmeyer; Neil Upmeyer is the president of the Center for Analysis of Public Issues, a public policy research institute.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
When her 1993 gubernatorial campaign was faltering only two months before Election Day, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman turned to Steve Forbes, her neighbor and childhood friend and now a Republican candidate for President, for help. His advice? Call for a 30 percent cut in state income taxes.
Mrs. Whitman quickly made the idea a campaign theme, arguing that putting $1.2 billion in tax revenues back in citizens' hands would stimulate economic growth. Despite uniform skepticism voiced by pundits and the press about the plan, the proposal struck a responsive chord among tax-weary New Jersey voters and helped Mrs. Whitman eke out a narrow victory over Gov. Jim Florio, the incumbent Democrat. 
 Mrs. Whitman made good on her promise. This week, New Jerseyans will be getting the final installment of her promised 30 percent tax cut. A middle-class family earning $50,000 a year will have an annual tax bill that is $300 less than it was in November 1993.
Fulfilling a key campaign promise -- and a year ahead of schedule -- has made Governor Whitman popular at home and has catapulted her to stardom in the Republican Party, where she is mentioned as a contender for the Vice Presidential nomination. But what is the price of this popularity?
Democrats have argued for two years that an income tax cut would mean less money for local governments and would force them to raise property taxes. But property taxes have risen only at about the rate of inflation. The real impact of the tax cut may not be on property taxes but on the limitation it imposes on the state's ability to respond to needs that only government can meet: problems like correcting inequities in public school financing and providing charity hospital care, which can only be accomplished with the support of the state's taxing authority.
In effect, the Whitman tax cuts are both a time bomb and a Trojan horse. The Governor's tax-cut rhetoric has painted the state's politicians painted into a corner, and the cuts themselves have jeopardized the state's ability to meet its current obligations.
How is New Jersey able to forgo $1.2 billion in revenue each year and still maintain a balanced budget? It's not because government spending has been slashed. The current budget is actually higher than the one the year before.
Nor is it because the tax cut has spurred the economy as promised. As a result of corporate restructuring and relocations, the state has suffered from the loss of thousands of skilled and high-paying jobs in telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and banking. The exodus of manufacturing jobs continues unabated and is unaffected by tax cuts.
The state's unemployment rate hovers around 6 percent, higher than the national average of 5.6 percent. Over the last year, job growth has slowed to an anemic pace, and the jobs created since taxes were first cut are more likely to be in fast-food restaurants than in office suites or laboratories.
Alarms are beginning to sound in Trenton that the Whitman administration's assumptions of economic growth and its projections of tax revenue may have been overly optimistic.
Without spending cuts or the revenues accompanying increased economic activity to fill the state coffers, to balance the books Governor Whitman has had to raid the state pension fund, persuade state workers to accept a two-year wage freeze and reschedule payments on the state's bonded indebtedness, leaving future taxpayers to pay the bill long after the Governor has left office.
This anti-tax baling-wire approach to budgeting has left the Governor and her Republican majority in the Legislature little leeway in meeting needs as they arise.
Those needs are about to spiral upward as the Federal Government heads toward balancing its own budget by 2002 -- a path that could cost New Jersey $350 million in grants next year. Over seven years, the loss of Federal funds would total an estimated $11 billion. Despite warnings last year about the impact of impending Federal cuts, Governor Whitman pushed ahead with the tax cut's final phase, which is worth $600 million a year.
Now weighty decisions about whether or how to replace lost Federal dollars and whether or how to cut the services underwritten by the Federal grants are being made even more difficult by the shortsighted commitment to tax cuts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%); 

PERSON: UPMEYER, NEIL; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) JOSEPH C PAPA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



79 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Slovakia Is Committed to Democracy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I have to express my concern regarding your news article "West Says Slovakia Falls Short of Democracy" (Dec. 26), where you draw the conclusion that Slovakia is "less democratic" than other post-Communist countries.
Your conclusions are based mostly on quotations from people who, for many reasons, are skeptical or say they are skeptical about the democratization process in Slovakia. It is certainly a part of a journalist's job to bring various opinions to the reader's attention, but it is too risky to draw any final conclusions from a one-sided source. 
 You point to the language law. Knowledge of a state language is a basic requirement for obtaining citizenship. To fully participate in the social and economic life of the Slovak Republic it is necessary to speak Slovak. The laws adopted previously make it obvious that the citizens of minority groups will and should retain their language.
Other examples, which lead you to a conclusion that Slovakia is "falling short of democracy," are drafts circulating in the Slovak Parliament that are presumed to centralize more power, reduce autonomy of universities, restrict the activities of private organizations, etc. Even in developed democracies, it takes a long time for a bill to become a law.
The difficulties that Slovakia is coping with now are difficulties of the entire Slovak society, not exclusively the Government. As Juraj Schenk, Slovak Minister of Foreign Affairs, said, "We emphasize the importance to solve the problems by constitutional and democratic ways."
It is not true that Slovak senior officials are "often unavailable to explain their positions to visiting foreigners." The evidence could be found in the large number of periodicals where interviews with Slovak officials have appeared. Slovak representatives welcome the opportunity to inform journalists about their positions.
 
BRANISLAV LICHARDUS
Washington, Dec. 29, 1995
 
Slovak Ambassador to the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: SLOVAKIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SLOVAKIA; SLOVAKIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); GYPSIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WRITERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); 

PERSON: LICHARDUS, BRANISLAV (AMB)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



80 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: The Safety of 2 Classes of Cholesterol-Cutting Drugs Is Debated

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
TWO physician-researchers who previously questioned the economic and medical wisdom of universal cholesterol testing and treatment are now questioning the long-term safety of the leading cholesterol-lowering drugs.
In an article being published today in The Journal of the American Medical Association, Dr. Thomas B. Newman and Dr. Stephen B. Hulley of the University of California at San Francisco maintain that two classes of drugs, the fibrates and the statins, used by tens of millions of Americans, could possibly cause cancer. But an editorial by two doctors in the journal disputes the thesis. 
 At issue is whether a seemingly healthy person with an elevated cholesterol level can expect benefits from long-term use of a cholesterol-lowering medication that would justify any risks associated with the treatment. The researchers maintain that treatment with the two classes of drugs should be reserved for patients already known to have heart disease or at very high risk.
In the past decade there has been more than a tenfold increase in prescriptions for cholesterol-lowering drugs, mostly for the statins and fibrates; in 1992, the latest year for which data are available, more than 26 million prescriptions were written.
"Cholesterol-lowering drugs are not like most drugs, which are given to people who are sick in hopes of making them well," Dr. Newman said in an interview. "You can tolerate greater risks in people who are already sick. But cholesterol-lowering drugs are being taken for decades by people who are well in hopes of keeping them well. For them, the projected benefit is smaller and thus the possible risks are more important. Our concern is that the drugs might be associated with an increase in cancer and that this may not be noticed for 20 or more years."
Dr. Hulley said: "We don't want people who should be on cholesterol-lowering drugs to become alarmed by our report. People with a high enough short-term risk of developing coronary disease should not worry about the hypothetical possibility of cancer, which could be decades away." He listed as being at high risk anyone who already had coronary disease and men over 45 and women over 55 with high cholesterol that did not respond adequately to dietary changes, especially people with other major risk factors like smoking, diabetes, obesity or high blood pressure.
The evidence the researchers cite is circumstantial, mainly studies showing an increase in cancer in laboratory rodents treated with doses that result in blood levels that are not much higher than the levels reached in people taking the drugs.
While they concede that there has been no definitive evidence of a cancer risk among people taking the drugs, they point out that the most popular drugs, the statins, have not been used long enough to have caused cancer among users.
Studies of the older fibrates are worrisome, the researchers say, because they reveal a 33 percent increase in deaths from noncardiovascular causes, including cancer. The cancer risk, however, was not statistically significant. For those who need long-term drug treatment, Dr. Hulley said that two other kinds of cholesterol-lowering drugs, the resin cholestyramine and the vitamin niacin, appeared less likely to have long-term adverse effects.
In the accompanying editorial in the journal, two doctors from the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson discounted the possibility of a cancer risk associated with the fibrates and statins and challenged the evidence on which the concern was based. The authors, Dr. James E. Dalen, a cardiovascular epidemiologist, and Dr. William S. Dalton, an oncologist and cancer researcher, stated that rodents were poor predictors of the ability of a chemical to cause cancer in humans. Although nearly all human carcinogens are also carcinogenic in rodents, the reverse is not true.
The Arizona doctors noted that "approximately 50 percent of all chemicals tested in rodent bioassays will be identified as carcinogens, a highly implausible proportion."
Furthermore, they said, the doses of the cholesterol-lowering drugs used in the rodent studies are many times greater than people take, and at such high doses toxic effects could possibly produce cancer in animals. In an interview, Dr. Dalton said that at the drug-exposure levels reached in patients, there was no increase cancer increase in the animals.
Dr. Hulley and Dr. Newman countered that most other drugs, including 85 percent of the drugs used to lower blood pressure, did not cause cancer in rodents. They argued that it was inappropriate to discount the significance of cancer tests in rodents. They cited the World Health Organization's statement that when data on humans were lacking, it was "prudent" to regard evidence of cancer in experimental animals as indicative of a cancer risk to humans.
Dr. Newman and Dr. Hulley performed no new tests for cancer-causing potential. Rather, they based their warning on rodent studies that had been submitted to the Food and Drug Administration before the drugs were approved for sale. The drug agency apparently did not consider the findings cause for keeping the medications off the market, although the agency did limit their approval of the fibrate gemfibrozil to certain high-risk patients.
The main hope from the beginning was that these medications would prevent cardiovascular disease, not just delay the inevitable in patients who already had damaged hearts or clogged arteries, Dr. Dalen said.
Although most studies showed that cholesterol-lowering medications had the greatest benefit for cardiac patients, a study in Scotland published in November showed that the statin drugs could prevent the development of heart disease in healthy middle-aged people with high cholesterol levels. In the study, pravastatin reduced by 31 percent the risk of heart attack and cardiac death in healthy men aged 45 through 64 who had elevated cholesterol levels. The overall death rate among the men taking the drug was reduced by 22 percent, with no cancer increase.
Still, Dr. Newman, who is a pediatrician, and Dr. Hulley, an epidemiologist, questioned the wisdom of treating elevated cholesterol levels in young men and women. "In general, these are people who are at very low short-term risk of developing heart disease, and it is not clear that the benefits of treatment are worth the risks," he said. "If you wait to lower cholesterol when people reach middle age as in the Scottish study, it will work about as well. We think it is better to wait until heart disease is a likely enough occurrence to justify the costs and long-term risks of treatment."
He also expressed concern that the availability of the statins, which are effective and well-tolerated drugs, had prompted an undue focus on cholesterol levels and a tendency by patients and doctors to "ignore other coronary risk factors that are equally or more important, like smoking and lack of exercise."
He said it was easier for doctors to write a prescription for a drug than to provide counseling that would help patients improve their diets and other heart-damaging habits. He added, "Physicians are more successful at reducing cholesterol with a drug than they are at getting people to stop smoking and start exercising."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Cholesterol Fighters" lists several classes of cholesterol-lowering drugs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ;UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (SAN FRANCISCO); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA COLLEGE OF MEDICINE; JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (SAN FRANCISCO); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA COLLEGE OF MEDICINE; JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HEART; CHOLESTEROL; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); STATINS (CHOLESTEROL-LOWERING DRUGS); FIBRATES (CHOLESTEROL-LOWERING DRUGS); CANCER LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (99%); CHOLESTEROL (97%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (97%); CANCER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); CARCINOGENS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); RODENTS (73%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (73%); OBESITY (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); NUTRITION (70%); SMOKING (70%); HYPERTENSION (69%); DIABETES (68%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, THOMAS B (DR); HULLEY, STEPHEN B (DR); DALTON, WILLIAM S (DR); DALEN, JAMES E (DR); BRODY, JANE E STEPHEN B HULLEY (78%); THOMAS B NEWMAN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



81 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Casino Called Mixed Blessing

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: WILDWOOD

 BODY:
Mayor Fred Wager, who wants to bring casino gambling to this economically depressed city, says he is unfazed by a report suggesting that it could be a mixed blessing.
A panel of residents appointed by the Mayor said in a report issued last month that a casino could harm the city's "family resort" image and overburden public institutions. But the report also said a casino could create jobs and revitalize the downtown district. 
 The Mayor said yesterday that critics of the proposed casino were too quick to compare Wildwood with Atlantic City. "We're talking about one casino," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CASINOS (92%); GAMING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); RESORTS (86%); JOB CREATION (53%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: FRED WAGER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



82 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3516 words

HEADLINE: Long, Costly Prelude Does Little To Alter Plot of Presidential Race

SERIES: THE CONTENDERS -- Last of nine articles

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Contenders for the White House in 1996 have already spent at least $60 million in by far the costliest run-up to a Presidential campaign in history, and one of the most energetic. Their television commercials have flickered for months in battleground states. In Iowa alone, candidates have collectively devoted a record 379 days to courting supporters.
But the competitors' industriousness and huge investments have done little to change the Presidential sweepstakes. President Clinton is unchallenged for his party's nomination, just as he was one year ago. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, still holds a commanding lead over his Republican rivals, who now number eight. 
 And so, while the country has amply showed its hunger for a fresh face -- with the start of actual voting only about a month away -- voters may well have to choose between two of the most familiar around: an incumbent President and a Senator who has served on Capitol Hill since the year John F. Kennedy entered the White House.
Judging by interviews throughout the country this year, and by opinion polls, voters are as restless as they were when Colin L. Powell, the widely popular retired general coveted by both parties as the candidate of the future, toyed with a Presidential bid and backed away. Ross Perot's talk of running a third-party candidate seeks to feed on that discontent.
With the stalemate over the Federal budget seeming to drag on endlessly, voters are quick to express dissatisfaction with the leadership in Washington. It is just not clear who or what they are actually looking for. Voters say they want a balanced budget, but they do not want to cut cherished programs to make that happen. They say Speaker Newt Gingrich is too harshly ideological, yet they like some of his notions, like curbing welfare payments.
Tom Brugger, 49, an accountant from Easton, Pa., says he usually backs Republicans but is dissatisfied with the options in 1996. What does he think of Mr. Dole? "Too wishy-washy." Senator Phil Gramm of Texas? "Too conservative." He said he would prefer a candidate who shared Mr. Gingrich's political philosophy but was not as extreme because "Gingrich has got some crazy ideas." But no one running meets his criteria.
Democrats are just as picky about their choices, or lack of choice. "I don't clearly see what Clinton's done, which is bad," said Mary Weigel, 23, a musician in Tacoma, Wash. But she said she would probably vote for him again if for no other reason than that "he's better than the alternatives."
The lingering dissatisfaction suggests that, once again, the status quo may be vulnerable in 1996. That may explain why two Republicans who began the year as asterisks on the Republican candidate roster, and who have a slim chance at the nomination, have made an unexpected splash: Patrick J. Buchanan, a former conservative commentator, and Steve Forbes, a publishing magnate.
And it may explain why some Republican strategists still expect a contender to emerge and, at the very least, rough up Mr. Dole a bit in the early going. Nelson W. Polsby, a political scientist at the University of California at Berkeley, said that news organizations, "trying desperately to breathe novelty into the campaign," will seize on any sign of a Dole upset, which will result in a flurry of publicity for whoever makes the strongest showing against him in the early contests in Iowa (on Feb. 12) and in New Hampshire (on Feb. 20).
"Any little thing that twinkles out of the manure pile, you're going to claim as a diamond," Mr. Polsby said.
Mr. Buchanan, who drew 37 percent of the vote as a protest candidate against President George Bush in the New Hampshire primary four years ago, is holding his own by tapping into voters' economic insecurity with his "America First" pronouncements about economic nationalism and elimination of foreign aid. And though he is still far behind Mr. Dole, Mr. Forbes has managed to outpoll the other Republicans by spending more than $7 million from his personal fortune on television commercials proclaiming his plan for a flat tax as the salvation for the American taxpayer.
Despite the spurts of interest in Mr. Forbes and Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Dole's competitors -- who have been sniping at him all year -- are still almost complete unknowns. Many candidates still complain that they are not drawing much attention, even though the contenders spent more in 1995 than in any other run-up to a Presidential year. For example, Mr. Dole spent about $20 million last year; Mr. Clinton raised only about $3.5 million in 1991, the year before his first run for President -- and that was far more than his Democratic competitors.
By toying for months with the notion of running, Mr. Powell and Mr. Gingrich underscored a discomfort with Mr. Dole among Republicans. But practically speaking, they also diverted attention from the Senator's rivals as they were desperately trying to solicit donations and get noticed.
Mr. Gramm likes to boast that he is the logical -- and more conservative -- alternative to Mr. Dole, but he has been the most surprising in his failure to do better. He started the year with an enormous fund-raising and organizational edge, but Mr. Buchanan has forced him to fight for conservative support that he had expected to gain easily.
Former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a disciplined, aggressive campaigner who fashions himself as the outsider in the race, has plodded along with little noticeable gain. Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, with even less money and organization, has also been campaigning for months, but so far his Eagle Scout persona and command of foreign policy have failed to captivate the voters.
 
Measuring the Importance
A Watershed Year, Or More Ambivalence?
 Experienced politicians differ about how important the election results will be in setting the tenor of the American political scene at the end of the century. The American public rejected a Republican President in 1992 and turned out the Democratic Congress in 1994. That has set the stage for a Presidential year that could resolve this ambivalence in favor of one party or the other, or not settle anything but prolong the amorphous sense of disenchantment with politicians.
"There's an awful lot riding on the next Presidential campaign," said Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, a prominent conservative. "The Republican revolution has only scratched the surface. Without a President to sign the end product, we're still a minority."
On the surface, Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton seem in powerful positions.
Not since 1984, when former Vice President Walter F. Mondale was tagged early as the Democratic front-runner and no Republican dreamed of taking on President Ronald Reagan, have the Democratic and Republican fields seemed so set so early. Mr. Dole is as much as 40 percentage points ahead of his rivals in national polls.
Four years ago, there was no clear front-runner to take on the President; instead, the top choice among Democratic voters was former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, who was drawing 11 percent support. Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas was tied for fourth place with Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, according to The New York Times/ CBS News poll.
That Mr. Dole is so much more dominant may have less to do with popularity than with the fact that he has been around for so many years and has long been prominent on the evening news.
"Dole and Clinton are very predictable characters who seem to have the inside track," said Mr. Brown, who now has a talk radio program in Oakland, Calif. "It just seems like the process has become more stale and more self protective even as candidates becomes further out of touch."
For the moment at least, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole can savor their preeminent positions.
 Mr. Clinton is the first incumbent Democrat in modern political history who does not face a competitor in his own party. And he enjoys a built-in edge: the surest place from which to be elected President is the White House.
Mr. Dole, in his fourth run for national office, also should be in an enviable position: in every election since that of Dwight D. Eisenhower, Republicans have nominated an established party figure -- generally, one who has run before for president or vice president, or been nominated, or served in one of those offices. Moreover, the Republican candidate who collects the most money the year before the election almost always captures the nomination. Mr. Dole has far outpaced his rivals by amassing nearly $25 million.
On the Democratic side, one measure of the tenuousness of this campaign is that White House officials are as bewildered as they are relieved by the fact that Mr. Clinton begins the year on the political offensive. The absence of a challenger, they say, was a combination of good fortune and well-rehearsed strategy: Mr. Clinton scared off competition by raising money -- $26 million -- for the primaries more quickly than any incumbent in the past, and by dispatching organizers to important states to begin preparing for the race.
The lack of competition will help assure Mr. Clinton a powerful position leading into the nominating convention in Chicago next August. The White House theory is this: While the Republicans are ganging up on one another, Mr. Clinton can devote millions of dollars to strengthen his state campaign apparatus and, if he wants, wait until the spring to unleash television advertisements promoting himself or attacking the Republicans.
But for Democrats, there is a worrisome side to the fact that Mr. Clinton has no competition: the Democratic Party is still so bereft after its beating in 1994 that there are no obvious, popular figures who could take him on.
Mr. Clinton's advisers are well aware that their good fortune now does not mean that the President is invincible.
"It's a long way to go, and I think we have a more mature view of how fragile this can be," said Douglas Sosnick, the White House political director. But, he added with a smile, "I don't think overconfidence is one of our weaknesses."
 
Partners and Opponents
In Ideological Times, Two Compromisers
 While some view the election as a referendum on Mr. Clinton's victory in 1992, or on the rise of conservatives in Congress in 1994, the twist is that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole are pragmatic, split-the-difference politicians, not known for their ideological fervor. Another twist is that they must work together to try to reach an accommodation on the budget -- and how the outcome plays may help determine who becomes President.
Both men also share a benefactor of sorts: Speaker Gingrich. The contrast with the Speaker, whose popularity has plummeted, has helped Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole considerably in approval ratings.
Mr. Clinton is now ahead of Mr. Dole in the polls, but those numbers mean little this early, given that the Senator may not win the nomination.
Also, though no independent candidate has taken off, there is still the very real prospect that one could significantly alter the dynamics next November. Few strategists in either party gave much credence at this time four years ago to Mr. Perot's chances of affecting the 1992 elections.
Mr. Perot has established a third party for himself or another candidate, and has not said whether he will run. Though his popularity has declined somewhat since he drew 19 percent of the vote in 1992, polls still show that there could be significant backing for an independent candidacy. That could be particularly helpful to Mr. Clinton, assuming that more Republicans than Democrats defect for the independent.
Last summer, several potentially appealing candidates were musing about running, from General Powell to Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey to former Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut. But no contender has yet gotten off the ground and begun preparing for a race.
That may be because aside from General Powell, there was no groundswell for any candidate. Also, possible candidates perhaps faced up to the fact that to run competitively, an independent has to overcome seemingly insurmountable hurdles to raise money and get on the ballot.
Mr. Clinton's biggest fear in that regard was that Jesse Jackson would make good on his musings about staging an independent bid. No matter how well he did, Mr. Jackson would peel away the support of black voters, who are among the more loyal Democratic backers.
Mr. Jackson has not ruled out a run, but he is sounding more and more supportive of Mr. Clinton. He seems to be satisfied that the President did not fold on efforts to turn back affirmative action. In addition, the White House has been particularly attentive in working more closely with Mr. Jackson in recent months.
Still, numerous issues could erode Mr. Clinton's head start. Republicans are not about to let Whitewater fade. A sour economy could damage the President, as could foreign conflicts that go awry.
"Bosnia is a ticking time bomb at the heart of the White House," said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster and informal White House adviser. "Any day, something awful could happen that could have very significant political ramifications. Every day you wake up and hope it doesn't happen -- more importantly for the soldiers involved."
The campaign was not supposed to start with Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole looming so formidably. After all the high hopes about contenders who might enliven the race -- voters still lament that General Powell is not in the mix -- some strategists are acting as if the primaries are over. White House officials are preparing for a campaign against Mr. Dole, and the 72-year-old Senator is already taking aim at the more youthful President, asserting that it is time for "grown-up leadership."
"If Dole gets far enough ahead in the primaries, and no one catches up, the primaries are just going to be the beginning of the general election," said Stephen Ansolabehere, a political science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
But campaigns rarely play out as scripted. While Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton now seem untouchable in their own parties, that should not mask the fact that both also have underlying weaknesses. Mr. Clinton, for one, is not particularly popular, and polls show that many people do not trust him on fundamental issues.
For the next few months, though, the President has the luxury of sitting back as Republicans try to beat up Mr. Dole. Many Republicans view the Senator as a deserving but not particularly mesmerizing nominee. Conservatives fear that he would return to his more centrist past during a general election. Even Mr. Dole's aides worry that voters will think he is too old to withstand the pressures of the Oval Office.
Yet the Senator can take heart in that his competitors, thus far, have not excited the Republican electorate. While Haley Barbour, the Republican national chairman, describes his party's field as "an embarrassment of riches," many Republicans agree with the assessment of one of the long-shot candidates, Representative Robert K. Dornan of California, that his rivals are "charismatically challenged."
"We've already opened next year's presents," said J. Bradford Coker, a pollster from Columbia, Md., whose company has conducted surveys on the 1996 race in 30 states. "Now, everyone's looking around and saying, 'Shoot, who are we left with?' Most of the excitement is about who hasn't run."

 
 
Not This Time
The Nonstarters And Early Departers
 Indeed, the biggest surprises so far have been which candidates dropped out of the race and which ones have not fared better. Discouraged, in part, by the fund-raising demands, several prominent Republicans did not run: former Vice President Dan Quayle; Jack F. Kemp, a former Housing Secretary; Dick Cheney, a former Defense Secretary, and William J. Bennett, a former Education Secretary.
The candidate with one of the most impressive political resumes, Gov. Pete Wilson of California, pulled out in late September, followed by another contender who favored abortion rights, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. While those candidates were the most moderate of the field, ideology was only part of the reason their candidacies never took off. For one thing, money is crucial to staging a competitive race, and neither Mr. Wilson nor Mr. Specter began his financial drive early enough. And their fund-raising efforts were virtually frozen when the speculation turned to General Powell. In addition, neither candidate appeared to have a convincing or inspiring message.
It has also been difficult for the Republicans to differentiate themselves on the issues because the party's fresh ideas seem to be coming from Capitol Hill. "The whole set of Republican initiatives has defined the political landscape more sharply than it ordinarily is defined," said Thomas E. Patterson, a political science professor at Syracuse University. "It's forced a degree of conformity on the bunch."
Mr. Dole's rivals have a simple strategy: emerge from the pack as the obvious alternative and hope that voters reject the Senator as too old or too much the insider. Most Republican analysts contend that given their financial positions and political appeal, Mr. Gramm and Mr. Alexander are in the best positions to give Mr. Dole a run for the nomination should they catch fire early, though few dismiss the possibility of early upsets by Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Forbes.
Many candidates view Mr. Dole as in a similar position to Mr. Mondale in 1984: Mr. Mondale was the easy favorite on the eve of the primaries, with by far the most money and most endorsements. But Senator Gary Hart of Colorado scored a stunning upset in the New Hampshire primary. He got 37 percent, while Mr. Mondale drew 28 percent. Ultimately, Mr. Mondale won the nomination because Mr. Hart could not capitalize on his victory to raise money fast enough and had little organization in other states.
This time, since the primaries are squeezed together, Mr. Dole's rivals hope they can score big early and grab the nomination before the Senator has a chance to get back on his feet. Mr. Gramm has a particularly strong organization in the South, and Mr. Alexander has been working to build an organization should he do well early.
But Republican voters have long been more disciplined than Democrats and are viewed as more likely to stick with the heir apparent than even Democrats were with Mr. Mondale. Even Mr. Hart said, "This calendar favors Dole" for the nomination.
While the first ballots will be cast at district conventions in Louisiana on Feb. 6, the two most crucial early tests continue to be the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary. Mr. Dole is the overwhelming favorite in Iowa because he is from the neighboring state of Kansas. As a result, the competition there may be for a candidate to emerge with a strong second.
Candidates are competing even harder in New Hampshire, which is the first major contest where no contender has a particular geographic advantage. Though Mr. Clinton came in second there four years ago, the victor in New Hampshire historically winds up with the nomination.
A memorandum, titled "Common Sense," is pasted on a wall in a back corner of Mr. Lugar's campaign headquarters in Indianapolis, but it could well have been written by strategists for any of the Republican contenders: "The campaign strategy is based on doing well in Iowa and leveraging a good showing there. This is the supreme political objective of the campaign. Doing well in New Hampshire is a very close second, and only second because it recognizes that failure to do well in Iowa kills us in New Hampshire."
Whatever the outcome, the process may more resemble "a Presidential quickie," as Richard Bond, a Dole strategist, puts it, than a normal nominating season. That is because several states leapfrogged one another, moving up their contests to influence the outcome. But so many states changed dates that few will carry much more weight than in the past. Still, the entire nomination battle could be over in late March.
Because of the truncated primary season, most candidates, including Mr. Clinton, began their advertising early. Voters in Iowa and New Hampshire have never been inundated with so many commercials so early.
"You got to see candidates -- you got to hear them speak," Silvano Wueschner, the Republican chairman in Wapello County, Iowa, said of past Presidential campaigns. "Now, they're selling themselves like a pair of Calvin Kleins."
 
 
The Contenders
 
DEC. 26 -- Senator Bob Dole of Kansas.
 
DEC. 27 -- Senator Phil Gramm of Texas.
 
THURSDAY -- Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana.
 
FRIDAY -- Former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee.
 
SATURDAY -- Representative Robert K. Dornan, Alan L. Keyes and Morry Taylor.
 
SUNDAY -- Patrick J. Buchanan.
 
MONDAY -- Steve Forbes.
 
YESTERDAY -- President Clinton.
 
TODAY -- The political landscape for the 1996 political season.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 3 about the prelude to the Presidential race overlooked an exception to the record of Republican Presidential choices since Dwight D. Eisenhower's nomination in 1952. Unlike other nominees since then, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, the choice in 1964, had not previously run for President or Vice President or been nominated or served.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An energetic campaign has meant that even last summer, places like the fairgrounds in Hopkinton, N.H., were awash in posters. (Associated Press) (pg. A12)
 
Chart: "FINER POINTS: Picking the Delegates" tracks delegate selection for the last three Presidential elections, highlighting weeks by which one-quarter, one-half, and three-quarters of the delegates were selected. (Sources: Congressional Quarterly, Associated Press, Republican National Committee) (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FORECASTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); PHIL GRAMM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996



83 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stalled Budget Negotiations Incite Republican Squabble
As the Federal budget crisis plodded into a fourth month and a Government shutdown passed its 19th day, House Republicans squabbled over tactics, voting down a proposal by Senator Bob Dole to reopen closed offices briefly while budget talks continued. President Clinton moved quickly to exploit the differences, accusing Republicans of following a "cynical political strategy."
Nevertheless, by one account, prospects for a compromise were brightening at the negotiations in the White House. [Page A1.]
 
Stocks Mixed in Heavy Trading
With stock traders nervous over the stalled budget talks, shares closed mixed in heavy volume. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 16.62 points, to 5,194.07, but the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 12.39 points, to 1,046.26. [D6.]
 
Treasury securities rose in price, sending the long bond's yield down to 5.95 percent. [D18.]
 
At AT&T, the Agony of Not Knowing
Thousands of AT&T employees who will learn their fates between now and next summer talk anxiously of their career limbo. "The message is there -- it's not necessarily a lifelong career anymore at AT&T," said Lee Smith, a 49-year-old financial manager with three sons to educate. [D3.]
 
HFS Shareholders Richly Rewarded
As HFS Inc., a leading hotel company with a number of chains, has expanded its franchise to include preferred vendor agreements with a wide array of companies, shareholders have profited. The company's stock soared from $25.25 at the start of 1995 trading to $79.625 at yesterday's close. And analysts are still bullish. Market Place. [D6.]
 
MGM Fraud Charges Settled
Giancarlo Parretti, the Italian financier and former owner of MGM studios, and two associates settled Federal securities-fraud charges related to the 1990 takeover of MGM without agreeing to financial penalties. [D2.]
 
John Hancock Insurance Fined
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company said it had paid a $1 million fine to the New York State Insurance Department for improper advertisements and sales practices, including "churning." A department spokesman said investigations were under way at several other companies, which he declined to name. [D2.]
 
United Parcel Raises Some Rates
United Parcel Service said that it was raising prices for ground shipments and changing the rate structure for domestic air delivery to reflect the distance involved. [D14.]
 
K.K.R. to Cut Safeway Stake
A Kohlberg Kravis Roberts group said it planned to cut its stake in Safeway Inc., the Oakland, Calif.-based grocery chain, to 53.4 percent from 61 percent by selling 16.25 million shares in a secondary offering. [D14.]
 
G.M. Chief Sets an Asian Goal
John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chief executive, said the company would try to capture a 10 percent share of the Asian market for cars and trucks within 10 years, up from 4.6 percent at present. His comments, made at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, were in contrast to the company's avoidance in recent years of setting market share goals. [D2.]
 
Assiduously Seeking Tourists
After Hurricane Marilyn devastated the Caribbean last fall, the U.S. Virgin Islands is commencing a $12 million campaign to attract American tourists. Advertising. [D5.]
 
No Cheers for Tequila Industry
Can success spoil tequila? Mexican makers of top-quality tequila contend it can, and a fight led by Guillermo Romo de la Pena, head of a small 225-year-old company named Tequila Herradura, to require only the purest product is splitting an industry that has seen its American sales burgeon with products that include 49 percent cane or corn sugars. [D5.]
 
H. B. Fuller Sued Over Glue Death
The family of a Guatemalan teen-ager who died in 1993 after sniffing glue has refiled a suit in Federal District Court in St. Paul accusing the H. B. Fuller Company, which is based there and dominates the Central American adhesives market, of being responsible for the boy's death. The company contended it was not a matter for American courts. [D4.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,194.07 up 16.62
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.95% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 104.87 yen up 0.95

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (80%); SWY (NYSE) (80%); CAR (NASDAQ) (67%); UPS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (80%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (80%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (67%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (80%); SAFEWAY INC (80%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (67%); JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (64%); MGM STUDIOS INC (53%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%); TEQUILA HERRADURA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEQUILA HERRADURA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BUDGETS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); BONDS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (65%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (61%); LIFE INSURANCE (61%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (61%); MARKET SHARE (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



84 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Security a Top Issue in Municipal Pact

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
When hundreds of school crossing guards and school aides braved sleet and slush on Tuesday night to vote on the municipal employees contract, they viewed the labor agreement far more charitably than New York City's teachers viewed their roughly similar accord.
The school aides, near the bottom of the city's economic pecking order, were delighted that the contract promised three years of job security, a promise that many said would keep their families off welfare. But the teachers, with their prestigious jobs and university degrees, cared hardly at all about job security, while caring a great deal about a two-year pay freeze at a time when the Mayor and other officials were getting large raises. 
 As a result, Sandra Feldman, president of the New York City teachers' union, suffered a stinging rebuff last month when city teachers rejected the contract she negotiated for them. But Charles Hughes, president of the union local representing school aides and crossing guards, achieved an overwhelming vote in favor of the contract, with 99 percent of the 350 members attending Tuesday's meeting voting for ratification.
Even though those voters represent only a small fraction of the 19,000 members of the local, supporters of the contract say the overwhelming support that Mr. Hughes's local gave it is the best evidence so far that more than 120,000 municipal employees will part ways with the teachers and ratify the five-year accord in a series of votes over the next month.
Like the teachers' accord, the municipal employees' agreement includes job security for three years, a pay freeze for two years and a 13 percent raise over the last three years.
In emphasizing the job security promised by the contract, Mr. Hughes has struck a chord that resonates with his local's low-paid members in a way that Ms. Feldman failed to connect with her members. Indeed, many of Mr. Hughes's members said they would support the contract because if it was good enough for their local's fiery, longtime president, it was good enough for them.
"I'm 56 years old, and what will I do if I lose my job now?" Leona Morton, a school aide in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, said. "I have two cousins in New Jersey who are losing their jobs with A.T.&T. I'm just grateful this contract protects our jobs."
Some members of Mr. Hughes's local, most of whom have neither college degrees nor specialized skills, are so happy to have a job and be above the poverty line that they hardly complain that their wages have been frozen for two years.
"The city has no money, and it's the best we can do," Edward Vasquez, a lunch duty worker in the South Bronx, said.
Mr. Hughes's group, Local 372, is just one of 56 locals in the giant, 120,000-member union representing the city's nonuniformed municipal workers: District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. A few locals began voting on the contract in early December, but the voting will not be completed until the end of January.
For Stanley Hill, the executive director of District Council 37, the 99 percent vote of Mr. Hughes's local, one of the largest locals in the union, was in ways a resounding victory. But it was also a dud.
Because only about 350 people attended the meeting, the 99 percent vote put only about 350 names in the pro-ratification column.
Moreover, the vote was easily outweighed by the vote by Local 420, which represents aides at municipal hospitals. That local has fought against the contract because it does not promise hospital workers the same job security offered to other workers. In polling last week at their workplaces, 4,402 members of Local 420 voted against the contract while only 34 were in favor.
"This vote sends out a message," said James Butler, Local 420's president. "This is a real vote coming from the rank and file. It's not in a conference room with a small percentage of the membership."
Despite Local 420's overwhelming vote against it, Mr. Hill is confident the contract will be approved. "It's going to be a tough vote, but I'm optimistic," he said.
According to Mr. Hill's aides, he urged Mr. Hughes to change the constitution of his local so his members could vote by mail ballot, a method that would have helped maximize the number of voters. "It's always a concern when you don't have a maximum number," Mr. Hill said.
His big hope is that District 37's largest component, Local 1549, which represents more than 20,000 clerical workers, and another large local, Local 375, which represents engineers and architects, will register thousands of yes votes when they vote by mail ballot.
But opponents are hoping that a third large unit, Local 371, representing social workers, will counter with a mountain of no votes because the president of that local is campaigning against the contract.
Kirby Lindell, a social worker in Queens, said he opposed it. "I think the contract should be turned down," Mr. Lindell said. "The guarantee of job security doesn't hold water because the city can declare there is a crisis at any time and scrap the job-security clause. And with the increase in transit fares and in the cost of living, it's hard to wait two years for a pay increase."
Mr. Hughes defended his decision to hold the vote at an open meeting, saying he wanted to give his members an opportunity to discuss, criticize and pose questions about the contract.
"With the type of weather we had, even if Santa Claus was in town, he would have hesitated to get on the sled to come down," Mr. Hughes said. "I was glad that about 2 percent of my membership was dedicated enough to come down and vote on the contract."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before school aides and crossing guards voted in favor of a proposed contract on Tuesday night, Stanley Hill, right, executive director of District Council 37, and Charles Hughes, president of Local 372, spoke. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LOCAL 420 (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOCAL 420 (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES PARAEDUCATORS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MAYORS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN SANDRA FELDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



85 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Mexican Stocks Gain, as Do Bonds and Peso

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Mexican stocks rose sharply today for a second day, as benchmark one-month interest rates fell and the peso strengthened.
Led by shares of construction companies, retailers and Telefonos de Mexico, the main Mexico City stock index closed up 75.35 points, or 2.57 percent, at 3,004.78, another record. On Tuesday, the index gained 5.43 percent. 
 Telmex's American depository receipts rose $1.75 in New York trading, to $36, on volume of 12.7 million units, the highest on the Big Board. Stocks that did well here included Grupo Dina, a bus and truck maker, which rose more than 20 percent, and Desarrollo S.A., a leading construction company, which closed up 14.8 percent.
Charles Myers, a partner at Caspian Investments, said in New York: "With people realizing there won't be another record year in U.S. markets, they're sending their money abroad. There's a lot of renewed interest in Latin America."
Indeed, the main stock index in Sao Paulo, Brazil, surged 6.64 percent today, and in Buenos Aires, Argentine stocks were up up 4.34 percent. Chilean stocks gained a modest eight-tenths of 1 percent.
Mexican stocks rose as the peso improved to a rate of 7.575 to the dollar, or 13.20 cents each. Lower interest rates also helped propel stocks. The one-month interest rates fell 211 basis points, to 44.7 percent, in the Mexican central bank's weekly auction of Government debt. It was the third straight week of improved debt prices, which move in the opposite direction from yields.
A stronger currency makes peso-denominated securities, like stocks, worth more.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (68%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; SAO PAULO (BRAZIL); BUENOS AIRES (ARGENTINA); MEXICO (97%); BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



86 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: PATAKI'S MESSAGE: THE OVERVIEW;
Pataki Says Backing Spending Cuts Will Help State Thrive

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki today urged a Legislature that is wary about spending cuts in an election year to back the austerity budget that he sent it last month, promising lawmakers that the state would flourish under his proposals to reduce government.
Mr. Pataki used his second annual address to the Legislature to drum up support for his $63.8 billion budget, a plan that calls for some of the deepest spending cuts in New York in recent decades. 
 Mr. Pataki's speech, which some Democratic leaders here quickly termed hollow oratory, opened a legislative session expected to be one of the most contentious in memory. The Governor is seeking to close a $4 billion gap in the state budget through cuts in Medicaid, welfare, higher education, mental health and other programs.
Mr. Pataki sought to show lawmakers that the agenda he pushed through the Legislature last year -- which cut spending and taxes -- had already turned the state around.
He tried to send this message by dwelling on what he said were his accomplishments since taking office as the first Republican governor in the state in more than 20 years: more jobs, fewer regulations, less crime and a drop of 172,000, or 10.4 percent, in the number of people receiving welfare.
And he contended that the cuts in business and income taxes he had championed were revitalizing New York's economy, repeatedly stressing that by lowering costs in the state, companies would thrive.
"The program I outline to you today will build on the great successes we achieved in one short year, and continue New York's rise to its proper place of leadership among the states," he said.
In an indication of his strategy in lobbying the Legislature, Mr. Pataki spoke of the benefits of reducing government but rarely referred to any details of the spending cuts adopted last year or proposed for this year. But many of the lawmakers who listened to the Governor as he talked in the Assembly chambers made it clear afterward that they understood that he hoped to convince them that the pain would be worth it.
Mr. Pataki's budget is also running into criticism because it would alter the way much of the state's money is to be spent, allocating funds in block grants that would give localities more say in running programs.
Further complicating the debate in Albany is the turmoil in Washington. President Clinton and Congress remain at odds over how to revamp welfare and Medicaid, the program that pays for medical care for the poor. How much Federal money is allocated to New York -- and how it can be spent -- will greatly influence the budget battle here in the coming months.
All this is occurring as members of the Republican-controlled Senate and the Democratic-controlled Assembly prepare for their re-election campaigns. Last year, Mr. Pataki received mostly solid support from the Republicans in the Legislature, but this year, some of them are privately expressing concern about the depth of the Governor's proposed cuts.
Governors typically use their State of the State speeches to give glimpses of their budgets, which are usually announced in the middle of January. But Mr. Pataki issued his budget on Dec. 15, a month early, seeking to shift the blame if it is passed late to the Legislature.
With the budget already unveiled, this year's speech had few new major proposals. Mr. Pataki instead spent most of his time on a glowing review of his first year, imploring the legislators to follow through on the initiatives that he has proposed.
"It's been a spectacular year," he said. "It's been an historic year, a year full of accomplishments for the people. We can be proud because we have made life better for New Yorkers -- after all, that is our purpose."
The Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, who as the Democratic leader is Mr. Pataki's chief rival, scoffed at the Governor's assessment of his tenure. Mr. Silver said Mr. Pataki had glossed over the potential effects of the proposed cuts.
"There is reality, and there is the speech," Mr. Silver said.
The third member of the triumvirate that dominates Albany, Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader of the State Senate, praised his fellow Republican, saying that Mr. Pataki had "reinforced his vision for continuing the dramatic turnaround we began a year ago."
Mr. Pataki did announce some modest new proposals, calling for studies of the state's workers' compensation and unemployment programs, as well as its public education system. He also said he would work to clean up Long Island Sound and seek legislation to guarantee women insurance coverage for two-day hospital stays after giving birth. And he said the state would buy a 375-acre parcel of land in the Adirondacks.
But Mr. Pataki, who does not have a reputation as a great rhetorician, spent most of the speech on broad themes, seeking to link his proposals to figures as diverse as Theodore Roosevelt, the crew of the Apollo 13 mission and a Rochester police sergeant who was shot in the line of duty.
The speech got off to a rocky start when Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross introduced the Governor and he failed to appear for a few minutes. And at one point in the middle of the speech, he inserted the words "thank you" into his prepared text after giving a rousing defense of tax cuts, and some in the audience seemed to believe that the speech was over.
He drew laughter, though, when he recounted several instances of what he said were government rules run amok. He described how a Jewish nursing home in the Bronx was sanctioned for not serving pork and how another nursing home in Syracuse received a violation for permitting creamed corn to run into meatloaf on a resident's plate.
He tied those regulatory gaffes to his belief that government must reduce its role in the life of the state's citizens. Part of that, he said, means that the state should turn over to private companies duties that it has been performing.
He praised the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for recently selling the New York Vista Hotel at the World Trade Center, and he called on the bistate authority to sell the rest of the trade center. He said the proceeds should be given to the state to help finance the reconstruction of Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan and other projects.
The speech had a mostly optimistic tone, though Mr. Pataki did reserve a few barbs for his Democratic predecessor, Mario M. Cuomo.
"This year, we restored New York's future by replacing the old darkness with a light that comes from a people whose ideas, leadership and creativity are the best in the world," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki. (David Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Graph: "KEEPING COUNT: New York State by the Numbers" tracks private-sector jobs, average number of people receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children each month, average number of people receiving Home Relief each month, State taxes per capita, and number of murders. Graphs run annually, from 1990 through 1995. (Sources: Department of Labor; Department of Social Services; Business Council of New York State; the Governor's Office) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (59%); BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (59%); BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAID (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); RUNNING (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



87 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Dow Is Ahead 16.62 on Day Of Big Swings

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday on heavy volume as the stalled Federal budget negotiations caused some sharp swings in trading.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 16.62 points, at 5,194.07. It had surged almost 30 points, but then plunged when President Clinton made pessimistic comments about the prospects of ending the partial Government shutdown. 
 Later, the Dow bounced back to regain some ground. A deal in Washington that would lead to a balanced budget would help the markets.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 0.59 point, to 621.32, but the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index dropped 12.39 points, or 1.17 percent, to 1,046.26.
"It was a day with some big winners and some big losers," said E. Wayne Nordberg, equity manager of Lord, Abbett & Company. "Specific company fundamentals dictated whether stocks were up or down."
Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange topped decliners, 1,521 to 932. A huge volume of 469.2 million shares changed hands, the seventh highest in history, compared with 364.3 million shares on Tuesday.
The Big Board also announced yesterday that its market capitalization -- the value of all shares listed -- reached a record $6 trillion at the end of 1995, seven months after passing the $5 trillion mark.
With value investors taking a new look at the groups with poor performance last year, some of the retail stocks moved upward. Dayton Hudson rose 7/8, to 77 1/2, and Wal-Mart advanced 1/4, to 23 1/2.
Bottom-fishers were attracted to industrial-material issues with good prospects of growth in 1996. Alcoa closed at 55 1/4, up 7/8; Dow Chemical at 72 5/8, up 1 1/2; Georgia-Pacific at 70 5/8, up 1 1/8, and Allied Signal at 50 1/2, up 1 1/4.
Utilities were also strong, pushing the Dow Jones utilities index up 0.84 point, to 228.27, its highest level in two years. Higher utility-stock prices are usually seen by traders as indicative of lower interest rates in the future. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond eased to 5.95 percent yesterday from 5.96 percent on Tuesday.
Among the utilities gaining ground were Cinergy, up 3/8, to 31 1/8; Public Service Enterprise, up 1/4, to 31 1/8, and Peco Energy, up 1/2, to 30 3/4.
Technology stocks slumped after some downgradings were issued by Paine Webber, Alex. Brown and Bear, Stearns. Among them were Applied Materials, down 3 7/8, to 37 1/2; Sun Microsystems, down 3 1/2, to 41 1/4; Digital Equipment, down 3 1/4, to 59 5/8, and LSI Logic, down 2 1/2, to 31 1/8.
Profit taking forced a number of international drug stocks lower even though the dollar had its largest one-day gain versus the yen in seven weeks. Merck closed at 63 3/8, down 7/8, and Eli Lilly closed at 53 3/8, down 2. A notable exception was Johnson & Johnson, which rose 3 3/8, to 87 5/8, after its Renova ointment was approved by the Food and Drug Administration to reduce facial wrinkles.
Natural gas issues fell on speculation that the increase in spot prices might come to an end. Enron fell 1/8, to 37 5/8; Apache dropped 1 1/4, to 27 3/4, and Burlington Resources declined 1, to 38 3/4.
Hondo Oil and Gas fell 3 7/8, to 10, on news that regulations in Colombia may hurt its business. The PNC Bank Corporation dropped 113/16 , to 29 3/4, after three investment firms cut their ratings on the stock. And Concentra plunged 39/64 to 5 5/8, a day after it said that fiscal third-quarter results would be worse than anticipated.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (54%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); DOW (SWX) (53%); DOW (NYSE) (53%); DOW (LSE) (53%); 4850 (TSE) (53%); PEG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (54%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (54%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LORD ABBETT & CO (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); TARGET CORP (54%); ALCOA INC (53%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (53%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (53%); PECO ENERGY CO (51%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



88 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety at AT&T as Layoffs Loom

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: BASKING RIDGE, N.J., Jan. 3

 BODY:
Lee Smith and Fred Dellanno shared lunch and anxieties today in the cafeteria at the AT&T Corporation's headquarters in the snowy woodlands of this quaint village.
Both are managers in the financial department that handles budgets for the long-distance company's customer-service representatives across the country. Mr. Dellanno, 44, seemed relaxed; he was recently told that his job and 13-year career is secure. But Mr. Smith, a 49-year-old father of three sons, has received no assurances that he would survive the 40,000-job cutback the telephone giant announced Tuesday. 
 And so, like tens of thousands of AT&T employees who will learn their fates between now and next summer, Mr. Smith finds himself in career limbo.
Mr. Smith's oldest son, Rick, is a freshman at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y. His other two sons, Michael, 16, and Dan, 12, plan to head to college all too soon. Mr. Smith, who has 26 years with AT&T, has survived three retrenchments since 1990; he is not sure about his fate in the fourth.
"The message is there -- it's not necessarily a lifelong career anymore at AT&T," Mr. Smith said. "I'm cautiously optimistic and I feel somewhat confident, but I've dusted off my resume. I'm looking at 10 years of college education I have to pay for somehow. I'm not anxious to change careers, but if I have to I'll deal with it."
Few here talked about lifetime guarantees. "Tell me what companies today provide job security for life," Mr. Dellanno asked. "I don't think you can name one."
Both men were eligible for the voluntary buyout that AT&T offered 72,000 managers last November, and which 6,500 people had accepted by last Friday's deadline. Mr. Dellanno did not take the buyout option because he had been assured he had a place, for now, in AT&T's future. Mr. Smith turned it down because he felt he could not afford to walk away from his job, even if he may soon be forced to take a comparable severance package.
So today at AT&T headquarters, where some 4,000 people are employed, as the last flakes of an overnight snowstorm fell outside the cafeteria's glass walls, stress accompanied the luncheon specials of roast turkey and pasta.
And in the offices of experts who watch New Jersey's economy, the potential impact of AT&T's cutbacks on the state was a prime topic.
The company is New Jersey's largest private employer, with 49,000 workers in 326 offices and facilities around the state. Each year, AT&T pumps about $6.6 billion into the state economy through salaries, pensions, taxes, purchases and philanthropy, said Kim Pryor, an AT&T spokeswoman.
Between 6,000 and 7,000 of the 49,000 jobs are expected to be eliminated in the first half of 1996 as part of the nationwide job reduction of 40,000, said Burke Stinson, a company spokesman.
James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said it was important to place the job cuts in the context of the state's economy, which has about 3.6 million jobs. The positions AT&T is shedding amount to only 0.2 percent of those, he said.
But percentages mean little to individuals who may soon be looking for work. Among others facing the uncertainties here were Sheryl Rossman, a manager in corporate finance, and her husband, Robert Holtgrefe, a manager in the equipment systems department. She has worked for AT&T for 19 years, and he has 30 years with the company.
"Hopefully one of the two of us will be able to stay," Ms. Rossman said. "I don't think both of us will be fired. But if we are, we'd just up and leave the state and go someplace else with a lower cost of living."
But Mr. Hughes of Rutgers, suggested that New Jersey was not the worst place to be for people who lost AT&T jobs. "It is not the people who have become obsolete," he said. "It is the jobs that have become obsolete. If other companies are looking for skilled middle managers they have a better chance of finding them in New Jersey than they do in some rural backwater."
AT&T has said that those who are laid off will receive a financial package including eight weeks of pay; a lump sum ranging from 5 to 35 weeks of pay, depending on length of service; a bonus amounting to 20 percent of that lump-sum payment, and an additional $10,000 for the cost of moving and new job training.
Mr. Smith, the father of three, said that he believed that about three dozen of the 360 employees in his department would leave. He said 22 had already accepted AT&T's buyout package. That leaves perhaps 14 people in his department facing dismissal, Mr. Smith said.
Across the cafeteria, David Levine, a manager in the personal telephone-number department, was eating lunch with his daughters, Kathryn, 9, and Sarah, 7, who had come to his office after the snow closed their school. Mr. Levine, with AT&T for 11 years, said he was confident he would be retained because he had not been among those offered a voluntary buyout package.
He called the cutback a wrenching experience for employees. His father-in-law spent 25 years with the New York Telephone Company before retiring in 1984 during the breakup of the Bell System, installing telephone lines and later supervising repairmen. Mr. Levine said his father-in-law often spoke of the telephone company as a family and a provider of a lifelong job.
"I don't think he'd recognize this company now," Mr. Levine said. "Everyone's concerned. I don't think you can be with AT&T and not be concerned when you're aware the world of work has changed and you're keeping your skills up and always learning about changes in technology. This is a tough industry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Smith and other AT&T managers are nervous about their fates as the company prepares to eliminate 40,000 jobs. "The message is there," said Mr. Smith, shown in the cafeteria at AT&T's corporate headquarters in Basking Ridge, N.J. "It's not necessarily a lifelong career anymore at AT&T." (Angel Franco/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AT&T INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: BASKING RIDGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAYOFFS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (69%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT FRED DELLANNO (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



89 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Strike Threatened Today At 1,000 Office Buildings

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The union representing elevator operators and maintenance workers at about 1,000 large New York City commercial buildings threatened yesterday to begin a strike today unless progress were made in contract talks.
Management spokesmen said that if there were a strike, the office buildings would remain open and be run largely as usual, except that tenants would be asked to empty wastebaskets themselves. 
 As of 2 this morning, negotiators for both sides were huddled in talks at a midtown hotel.
The union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, is threatening a strike after management demanded a cut of nearly 50 percent in the starting salaries of building service workers. For example, the management group, the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, wants to cut the starting salary of janitors to $300 a week from $573 a week now.
"The industry is looking for some economic relief," said Jim Grossman, a spokesman for the building owners and managers. "The big issue is the starting wage." He insisted that current workers would not be hurt by management's efforts to establish a new, lower starting wage. Currently, he said, all workers make the same salary.
Labor and management representatives have been locked in intense negotiations at the Sheraton New York Hotel since the local's contract expired at 12:01 A.M. on Jan. 1.
"The negotiators characterize their positions as being very far apart," Dennis Sheehan, a union spokesman, said yesterday afternoon. "Management is seeking a whole list of givebacks."
Spokesmen for the union and management predicted that negotiations would go into the early hours today before union officials decided whether to begin a strike.
The negotiations involve elevator operators, porters, doormen, concierges, handymen and janitors. The contract will also cover security guards, although their contract does not expire until Feb. 29.
Mr. Grossman, the management spokesman, said the service workers last staged a major strike against commercial buildings in New York in 1948. But in 1991, 30,000 members of Local 32B-32J carried out a 12-day strike against 2,800 residential buildings.
Management insists that the service workers are already well paid, and that the $29,796 annual salary for janitors and porters makes them among the nation's highest paid building service workers.
Under the agreement that just expired, the building service workers received a 10.5 percent increase in wages and benefits over three years.
Several labor leaders said that if a strike occurred, many other unions would honor the picket line, partly because John J. Sweeney, the new president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., used to be president of Local 32B-32J.
The Realty Advisory Board is giving tenants what it calls a preparedness manual. It calls for closing all bathrooms open to the public and for putting large containers in a central place on each floor where employees can empty their wastebaskets.
Mr. Grossman said he did not think elevator service would be disrupted because the elevators are automatic in virtually all modern commercial buildings in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SHERATON NEW YORK HOTEL (79%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; LABOR; STRIKES; ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JIM GROSSMAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



90 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: The Art and Science of Alan Greenspan;
How to Stay Popular in a Divided Washington, and Keep Inflation in Check

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Sometime this winter, President Clinton will decide whether to give another term to Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve -- a Republican operating in a Democratic Administration whose decisions will play a key role in shaping the economy as the Presidential election approaches.
Right now, the odds appear to be heavily in Mr. Greenspan's favor, largely because he has proved to be as adept a politician as he is an economist. Even in times as ideologically charged as these, Mr. Greenspan seems to move comfortably in both the Democratic and Republican camps, all without diverging from his avowed objectives -- keeping inflation at bay and the economy growing. 
 Consider the events of Dec. 19. At midday, the nation's financial markets, battered by a huge selloff of stocks the day before, waited to see whether the Fed would come to their aid by cutting interest rates. President Clinton, meeting with his advisers in the Oval Office, discussed his hopes for a credit easing. On Capitol Hill, Republicans were just as ardently rooting for the status quo.
Just after 2:15 P.M., fax machines around Washington spat out the Fed's decision. Its top policy-making committee reduced rates -- but by the smallest fraction possible, shaving a quarter- point from one of the two rates it controls. Wall Street's anxieties were calmed, the stock market resumed its climb, the Democratic White House was satisfied -- and there was not a peep of Republican protest on Capitol Hill.
It's times like this that make Mr. Greenspan, now in his ninth year in office, look indispensable. The Republican Congress, after all, is far more likely to reconfirm a conservative economist first appointed by President Ronald Reagan than anyone else Mr. Clinton might name. And President Clinton has benefited from Mr. Greenspan's discreet help in a number of ways, from his support for bailing out Mexico to urging an increase in the nation's debt limit to avoid a government default that some Republicans seemed willing to tolerate to force a budget deal.
Mr. Greenspan is hard to predict, and some say he does not always practice what he preaches. He has urged the Government to meddle as little as possible in the economy -- but has himself tried to fine-tune it with endless tweakings of interest rates.
He has advocated political passivity for the central bank -- but has played an activist role in political events, from last winter's bailout of Mexico to the continuing debate over how to calculate inflation adjustments for Social Security.
And he has enjoyed a long career as a Washington insider, moderate in tone and unflappable in his pursuit of the economic center, while retaining a deeply held personal philosophy of libertarianism, born of a friendship with the late Ayn Rand, the writer who argued that Government was a barely necessary evil.
Mr. Greenspan's job as the nation's No. 1 inflation fighter is the touchstone to which he always returns. Though he regularly befuddles Congressional questioners with his soporific syntax, he spoke clearly and passionately at a meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee in June 1988, when he had been in office for less than a year.
The Fed "went through the torture of the damned" to bring inflation under control after the 1970's, he said during the closed-door meeting, not knowing the transcript would become public years later. Lecturing a monetary hard-liner, the chairman warned against jeopardizing that success by pushing too fast with high interest rates.
"I think that if we squeezed to that point, the economy would go into recession and political pressures would overwhelm us," Mr. Greenspan snapped.
Mr. Greenspan has been watching the economy since 1954, and that experience helps him use an extraordinary array of often obscure economic statistics for clues to the economy's health. In a speech last June, for example, he spoke of weakness in "Class 8 truck orders," sending even veteran statistics watchers to the reference books to figure that out he meant very heavy trucks, particularly 18-wheelers.
This habit of analyzing everything from gold prices to retail sales does not sit well with monetarists, who believe he should focus on long-term growth of the money supply. "Greenspan articulates a fine set of long-range goals, but it's pretty clear that the committee under his leadership has responded to monthly changes in economic indicators, and that's as ad hoc as you can get," said H. Erich Heinemann, an economic consultant in New York.
He warned that Mr. Greenspan's current tight monetary policy may yet throw the economy into a recession during an election year -- a minority view among economists who mostly give Mr. Greenspan high marks..
Other critics have accused him of citing whatever recent economic statistic best justifies his current interest-rate policies -- an assertion Mr. Greenspan rejects.
"What we try to do is to create a body of information which gives us a sense of what the underlying forces driving the economy are," he said in testimony on Capitol Hill in 1994.
In public life, Mr. Greenspan's image has been centrist, and he has kept his own beliefs largely to himself. Congressional interlocutors do not hear from Mr. Greenspan about Ms. Rand, the prophet of unfettered capitalism who died in 1982. Even as her brand of strict individualism has become more politically acceptable over the last 20 years, Mr. Greenspan has become more reticent about his beliefs. But on the rare occasions that he has spoken of their friendship, he has described it as one of the most important factors in his life and thinking.
Mr. Greenspan took his first Washington job in the final weeks of the Nixon Administration, serving as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under both Mr. Nixon and President Gerald R. Ford. Appointed by President Reagan to head a commission on the future of the Social Security system, he displayed what admirers called political savvy -- and critics termed overcautiousness -- by proposing a modest tax increase and a slight decrease in benefits.
In June 1987, President Reagan nominated him as Fed chairman, succeeding Paul A. Volcker, who had achieved a towering reputation as the man who throttled double-digit inflation, though at the cost of the 1982-83 recession.
Mr. Greenspan did not have a long honeymoon. In September, he and Treasury Secretary James A. Baker 3d clashed over the Fed's decision to raise interest rates. Then, in October, the stock market fell dramatically. Mr. Greenspan issued a one-sentence statement saying that money would be available to support the nation's financial system. Some on Wall Street clamored for more help, but as the dust cleared Mr. Greenspan's restrained approach won much praise.
But the friction with Mr. Baker continued into the Administration of President George Bush, whose opinion of Mr. Greenspan did not rise during the recession that began in 1990 and eventually helped scuttle Mr. Bush's hopes of re-election. Bush officials wanted Mr. Greenspan to move more quickly to stimulate the economy through lower interest rates, and the President let the chairman dangle in uncertainty for several months in 1991 before reappointing him.
Mr. Greenspan's relations with the Clinton Administration, by contrast, have been far warmer -- often to the point of making his Republican friends uncomfortable, as when he sat next to Hillary Rodham Clinton at President Clinton's first State of the Union Message.
Last year, he gave comfort to the Administration by lobbying Congress to support the President's bailout of Mexico. And he has offered other, less obvious assistance, as well. Mr. Greenspan has warned in several recent speeches about the dangers of middle-class wage stagnation. Administration officials have quietly encouraged Mr. Greenspan to continue with these remarks, which echo one of President Clinton's campaign themes.
Still, in political quarters, most criticism of Mr. Greenspan's performance comes from the President's party. Congressional Democrats, led by Representative Henry Gonzalez of Texas, the ranking Democrat on the House Banking Committee, have accused him of being too secretive and pursuing an excessively tight monetary policy.
Indeed, Mr. Greenspan has appeared eager to help Republicans in their efforts to cut the deficit -- providing them with some cover, for instance, on the politically risky idea of revising the formula used to determine cost of living increases for Social Security. And while many House freshmen may be suspicious of him, he has forged close ties with a number of important moderates.
"As Fed chairman, he has brought some skills of a personal nature that are very impressive," said Representative Jim Leach, the Iowa Republican who heads the House Banking Committee. "I seek Fed advice on almost every serious issue before us, whether from Alan or his staff."
The partisan verdict on Mr. Greenspan, of course, is likely to ride on the economy's performance in the next 11 months. If the current expansion falters, the blame may fall on Mr. Greenspan, but the victim could be President Clinton's re-election prospects.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Endurance" lists Fed chairmans and their years of service since 1951. (pg. D4)
 
Graphs: "Managing the Economy" shows annual inflation rate in consumer prices, 30-yield treasury bomd yield, employment rate and gross domestic product from 1978 to 1994. (Source: Datastream, Federal Reserve)(pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); DEBT CEILING (63%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



91 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: PATAKI'S MESSAGE;
Excerpts From the Governor's Address in Albany

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Gov. George E. Pataki's State of the State Message yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times.
. . . It's been a spectacular year. It's been an historic year, a year full of accomplishments for the people. We can be proud because we have made life better for New Yorkers -- after all, that is our purpose. For the first time in over a decade this government stands as the servant of the people and not the other way around. This is what New Yorkers want their government to be and we have heard them. 
 This past year people across our state and nation saw the movie "Apollo 13." It's an inspiring story of three American astronauts who overcame grave dangers and incredible odds to complete a journey around the moon. The story began with this simple statement from the Apollo 13 commander: "Houston, we've got a problem." And that's when the whole team went to work. With courage and confidence they were able to save the lives of those brave astronauts.
In contrast to that can-do attitude of the Apollo 13 team, the people of New York for too long heard from their government that events were beyond their control. State government had lost confidence, state government was accepting a loss of hope, a belief in lowered expectations and a loss of opportunity for our people. In November of 1994, the people said, "Albany, we've got a problem." But it isn't us. It's our government. . . .
Over the past year we have set out to undo the damage done by the failed policies of the past. You and I together, with enthusiastic support from our people, created new programs to meet the people's challenges. I'm happy to report to you today that we have met many of those challenges. But we still have a long way to go.
We created a more efficient and more effective state government; one more responsible to the people; a government that provides the services people need and deserve and does so while living within the people's means. . . .
Today, we have cut taxes on middle-class families. Today, we have reduced bureaucratic waste. Today, we have lowered state spending for the first time in generations. Today, our streets and our communities are safer than they've been in years: violent crime down by more than 13 percent; robbery down 19 percent; murders down over 24 percent and violent crime by inmates on work release is down 89 percent.
Two weeks ago, I told you that our welfare rolls were down by about 100,000 people when I presented the budget. Well, the year-end numbers are now in. Home Relief caseloads in this state are down by over 25 percent. And today we have 172,000 fewer people on welfare than last January. That is truly historic change. And today, as well, we have created more than 100,000 new private-sector jobs this year for our people. . . .
We began this journey at a distinct disadvantage. We inherited a state government that led the nation in high taxes, pointless regulation and a welfare system out of control. We inherited policies that discouraged work, downplayed individual responsibility and trampled personal freedoms. Too many of our best and brightest people were leaving our state to find hope and opportunity elsewhere. They were leaving because we had a New York State government that too often acted without reason. . . .
JOBS AND TAXES
 After decades of losing jobs we are now a national leader in creating jobs. And we're first in the nation in cutting taxes. Because we have made government work better for our people we are now becoming the nation's leader in statistics that make us proud. . . .
The changes we made this past year, returning government to its proper role as the servant of the people, are working. In Skaneateles Falls, Welsh-Allen created 50 new jobs. That's not just 50 people. That's 50 families -- families that have more hope today than they had a year ago. Industrial Ceramics created 100 jobs in Livingston County. Toshiba Display Devices is adding 100 jobs in Horseheads. Pratt Industries is creating 400 new jobs on Staten Island. . . .
We will not promise one thing in 1995 and deliver something less in 1996. We will keep the promise to cut taxes.
And then we will cut taxes again. Think of the taxes we cut, together, in a bipartisan way, in 1995. We cut the personal income tax, the corporate tax surcharge, the gross receipts tax and the subchapter S taxes subject to the surcharge. We cut the diesel fuel tax, the aviation tax, the beer tax, the soda tax. We cut the estates tax and the parimutuel tax. That's a long list and you are to be congratulated. But we can, we must and we will do more.
We must keep cutting the gross receipts tax on energy. We must cut the Cuomo tax on real estate, cut the sales tax on clothing and we must continue to attack the high property taxes that threaten the American dream of home ownership. . . .
We will continue to say yes to jobs and opportunity by reforming workers' compensation and unemployment insurance. These programs were intended to bring fairness to the workplace. But today, they not only do not fairly serve workers, they also fail our employers. In recent years, costs skyrocketed and the injured worker received no better service or better medical care. Some good changes have been made. We've introduced managed care into workers' comp. Employers are providing safer workplaces. This year, we decreased workers' comp rates by 5 percent. . . .
Today, I am directing Labor Commissioner John Sweeney, Workers' Compensation Board Chairman Robert Snashall and Director of Regulatory Reform Bob King, whose office has made great strides in restoring sanity to our regulatory process, to submit to me within 90 days, a sweeping reform plan for workers' comp and the unemployment insurance program. . . .
LAW ENFORCEMENT
 No duty is more fundamental to government than the duty to protect the right of the people to live in safety. In just one year, you and I together have made our neighborhoods safer places to live and to work. We have made our communities safer places to start a family and to raise a family, safer places to grow and to prosper. We restored the belief that justice can and will be served in our state by reinstating the death penalty after 18 years. We changed the system of criminal justice so that violent criminals pay the price when they break the law. We established truth in sentencing. We increased sentences for violent felons and eliminated parole for repeat violent felons, and we signed "Megan's Law." . . .
This year I will submit legislation that allows police officers to do the jobs they were entrusted to do. . . . The Police and Public Protection Act of 1996 that I will compose will insure that evidence obtained within standards of the U.S. Constitution can and will be used in our state courts to convict those who break the law.
Two weeks ago, we unveiled a new attack on crime, a 10-point plan that targets gang members, gun traffickers, felons who prey on children and criminals who assault police officers. We fight juvenile crime by holding violent youth to new levels of responsibility for their actions. . . . Under our plan, criminals who commit one violent felony will not, and cannot ever be released on parole.
Persons convicted for the second time of molesting a child will serve at least 15 years to life in jail. Penalties will be increased for crimes involving the sale of firearms and our plan further protects police officers, the guardians of the people's safety. Someone who seriously injures a police officer while committing a crime should and will spend at least 20 years in prison. . . .
WELFARE AND EDUCATION
 Today . . . the spirit of too many New Yorkers is being destroyed by welfare. Welfare has made too many New Yorkers all too dependent on an uncaring bureaucracy. Welfare has failed. While many have benefited, welfare had trapped many more in a system of counterfeit compassion that never met its purpose.
It's clear more welfare is not the answer; it is the problem. The answer is to encourage incentives to work. This past year we took giant steps towards replacing New York's failed welfare system with a system that encourages work. These changes are working. Today 172,000 fewer people are on welfare than a year ago. And today, more than 36,000 New Yorkers are earning their benefits through workfare, by working in parks, municipal offices and in public buildings. . . . Rewards and incentives are the key and there's no reward like work. . . .
And as we face the 21st century, our challenges continue to grow. So must our commitment to excellence in our schools. . . .
But standing in the way is an educational bureaucracy that is simply too large, too burdensome and too stifling. New York spends nearly $10,000 per pupil, more than virtually every other state. Despite this great investment, our schools are not keeping pace to prepare our children for the 21st century. In part, that's because only half the money -- only about half of what the state sends to local schools -- ever gets into the classroom. That is simply wrong. It must end. And it will end. . . .
ENVIRONMENT
 This year, we will work to replicate our successes, this time in the Adirondacks and along the shores of Long Island Sound. The ecology of the Sound is fragile and further neglect threatens our future. I intend to lead a bistate effort with Connecticut and the Federal Government to begin the long process of cleaning up Long Island Sound. It's time for New York to have a solid action plan to restore the greatness of the Sound. And with your help we must begin this effort this year.
The Adirondacks are also a magnificent resource. They link us to our past. They provide a glimpse into our future. Our efforts in the Adirondacks will further demonstrate our vision of developing a consensus that will make New York State the leader in environmental protection, while allowing for economic prosperity.
Today, I'm announcing that the state has purchased an important portion of the Whitney Estate, known as Canoe Carry East in the town of Long Lake in the Adirondacks. The purchase of more than 375 acres with Environmental Protection Fund money will preserve public access to Fourth Lake and the Raquette River along a popular canoe route in the heart of the Adirondack park. As we add more than $100 million to the Environmental Protection Fund this year, and fund a new class of environmental conservation officers to enforce our laws, we can, we must and we will regain New York's role as an environmental leader.
HEALTH AND ENERGY
 The people of New York State have a right to expect the finest health care in the nation and at a cost that can be afforded. But in recent years costs have soared while the quality of care did not improve with it. In 1995 we made great progress towards making sure our citizens received quality, efficient and effective health care. Through managed care more Medicaid recipients are receiving the important preventive and primary care they need to get healthy and to remain healthy. Costly use of emergency rooms for routine care is down. More people are using family doctors to treat their everyday illnesses and to provide the care needed to insure healthy families. . . .
We can and we will design a health care system that insures that our people continue to receive the highest quality health care and at lower costs. . . . I will propose that we guarantee insurance coverage for at least two days of hospital maternity care to assure that both the mother and the infant are healthy before they go home. This is a decision that should be made by doctors and by mothers, not by insurers and H.M.O.'s. . . .
The opening of the electric utility industry to competition is a major sea change facing our state and facing our nation. We are ready. We are taking steps to insure that the people of New York and their employers receive efficient and affordable energy. As we work to reduce the gross receipts tax, we must encourage still lower rates by opening New York State's electric markets to the competitive forces of the free market. . . .
There are only four years to the millennium. There is so little time to set New York State right again. There is so much still to do. But if we keep our resolve and our courage, stand up to the barriers that have stood in our way, we can bring greatness back to our people. Together we can unleash the spirit of New York. Freedom, personal responsibility and individual liberty need to be the hallmarks of our commitment.
By lowering taxes, protecting our people and making government less intrusive in our lives, by creating a safer New York State at home in the workplace and in the classroom and by creating a healthier environment, we will continue down the path to the renewal of greatness this state and its people deserve. The mandate is to each of us. . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); EARTH'S MOON (76%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); EARTH'S MOON (76%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); LAW AND LEGISLATION US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CRIME RATES (85%); VIOLENT CRIME (83%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (71%); BUDGETS (65%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (63%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



92 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
After a devastating hurricane, the U.S. Virgin Islands is stressing American values for tourists.

BYLINE: By Anthony Ramirez 

 BODY:
FOR Todd Godwin and C. J. Waldman, it was like winning the lottery: whisked away from Manhattan to spend Labor Day weekend tooling around the United States Virgin Islands to brainstorm, ever so lightly, a tourism ad campaign.
The sun was high, the hilltop trade winds gentle, their island guide colorful. Mr. Godwin, a copywriter at Lowe & Partners, an agency of the Interpublic Group of Companies, and Mr. Waldman, an art director at Lowe, developed the basic campaign on the first day of their trip last year. 
 Two weeks later, a hurricane struck.
Hurricane Marilyn, by far the most destructive storm in a record hurricane season, smashed through an already battered Caribbean. Winds of more than 100 miles an hour killed nine in the Virgin Islands and damaged or destroyed more than 90 percent of the buildings on St. Thomas, the hardest hit of the three islands. The $12 million advertising campaign, set to begin at Thanksgiving, was canceled.
Then, all of a sudden, it was on again. Lowe, best known for its Diet Coke television commercial featuring the hard-body construction worker, introduced the results of its on-again-off-again Virgin Islands campaign yesterday.
Roy L. Schneider, a surgeon who was elected governor of the Virgin Islands the year before, had campaigned on a platform of change and decided a new approach was essential to replace the old American paradise campaign from another agency.
Tourism accounts for 70 percent of the islands' $1.2 billion economy and keeping the old campaign would not do, especially now that worried tourists thought the Virgin Islands had been blown off the map.
No matter that the ads would start appearing the second week of January, long after Puerto Rico and Jamaica had started advertising and well into the December-to-March tourist season. Lowe & Partners would just have to scramble.
The campaign's slogan is: "The U.S. Virgin Islands. They're your islands." It is designed to distinguish the territory's American heritage from that of other Caribbean resorts like Jamaica, with its British heritage, and Martinique, with its French heritage.
Virgin Islanders use American dollars, as do Puerto Ricans. But unlike Puerto Rico, which is a commonwealth with a more independent government, St. John, St. Thomas and St. Croix are administered by the United States Secretary of the Interior. Also, unlike in Puerto Rico, the principal language is English, a fact that Lowe highlights in its campaign.
What is more, a fact that is not directly mentioned in the campaign, the ads are designed to show that the Virgin Islands have recovered. Many of the hotels and most of the main airport have been repaired. All of the scenes in the broadcast and print campaign were taken after Hurricane Marilyn.
All four commercials show an elegant white-bearded black man sitting in a straight-back chair near the beach. A goat is at his feet. In one, a steel guitar can be heard in the background as the Jelly Boys sing, "Never Find a Lover Like Me." A man, wearing a white hat, white shirt and white pants, and his goat turn toward the camera and he says: "You know we've been thinking. Our Virgin Islands are just like all the other Caribbean islands. With some minor exceptions.
"You won't need passports," he continues, in a lilting Caribbean accent, "language dictionaries, foreign currency and you won't go crazy talking to non-English-speaking operators. Hey, you can even rent videos. So come to think of it, we're nothing like those other islands."
The camera pans to the goat with a television remote control in its mouth. "Hey," says the man, "gimme back that remote."
Mr. Godwin and Mr. Waldman got the idea for a storyteller-guide from the example of their island guide on St. John, who also told them a fable of the islands as three brothers, which is also incorporated into the campaign.
"You can't just laundry-list a place's virtues," said Mr. Godwin, the copywriter, "but you can tell them through a character, who is a little eccentric to help make him memorable." When, on the way down from a hilltop on St. John's, Mr. Godwin and Mr. Waldman's vehicle was blocked by a herd of stubborn goats, they got the quirk they were looking for. "We made his best friend a goat," said Mr. Waldman, the art director.
They found Olric Carrington, who plays the storyteller, after auditions of many actors in New York, Los Angeles, Miami and the Virgin Islands. A native, Mr. Carrington is a 71-year-old retired postmaster, amateur actor and, after profiles of him appeared in the local news media, the islands' version of Brad Pitt.
Of course, advertising can't cure everything in Hurricane Marilyn's wake. Of the Virgin Islands' two million tourists, about 1.2 million come from cruise ships on grand tours of the Caribbean. Most, if not all, of those passengers are back.
But the number of other visitors may be down as much as 30 percent. And only 50 percent of St. Thomas's 4,800 rooms are back in commission. Still, the Virgin Islands may have another powerful draw: rooms that usually go for $150 to $500 in the winter are going for half off at many hotels.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MARTINIQUE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOWE & PARTNERS SMS INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOWE & PARTNERS SMS

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGIN ISLANDS (US); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MARTINIQUE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ADVERTISING; NYTRAVEL MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TOURISM (77%); WEATHER (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); BEACHES (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); THANKSGIVING (69%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, ROY L (GOV); RAMIREZ, ANTHONY TODD GODWIN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



93 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Up as Traders Seek Information

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Expectations of a breakthrough in the Federal budget impasse were a principal factor in lifting the prices of Treasury securities yesterday, as the market, lacking hard economic data from the Government, searched for other sources of usable information.
The 30-year bond rose 4/32 , to a price of 11224/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped one basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point, to 5.95 percent, from 5.96 percent on Tuesday. 
 Technical trading dominated in the absence of reports by the Government, which were postponed because of the partial Federal shutdown.
The Federal Reserve said that the release of data on industrial output and capacity utilization at factories would probably be delayed. And at a news conference in Washington, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said that the December Producer Price Index, scheduled for release on Jan. 11, and the Consumer Price Index, scheduled for release on Jan. 12, would be delayed at least two weeks. In addition, he said, publication of the December employment report, which is scheduled for Friday, will also be delayed at least two weeks.
The absence of information could hamper the Fed's decision about whether to cut interest rates again when its monetary-policy arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, meets for the first time this year on Jan. 30 and 31, analysts said.
Mr. Reich said he would review the laws regulating Federal employment to see whether data collectors could be put back to work, adding that if the partial Government shutdown ended this week, the employment report could be released sooner than expected.
In the day's only release of economic data, the Mitsubishi Bank-Schroder Wertheim weekly report on sales at chain stores said that sales rose 1.8 percent in the week ended Dec. 30. It was a brighter picture of store activity than that which prevailed through most of December, but the strength of the report did not keep the market from advancing.
With the market so positive, few investors have had the courage to bet against it by short-selling, or selling borrowed securities in the hopes that their prices will fall, at which time the traders would buy them back, paying off the loan and profiting from the difference. Every attempt to do so recently has backfired.
Early in the session yesterday, word came that Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the leader of the House Republican Conference, had said that the House would not vote on a stopgap financing bill to restart the Government; such a bill was approved by the Senate on Tuesday. The news caused bond prices to slip momentarily.
John Burgess, managing director at Bankers Trust Investment Management, said the market had gotten off to a good start from overnight trading.
But the retail sales report, he said, was surprisingly stronger than what the market had been hearing about holiday sales. Mr. Burgess said traders coupled that report with bearish statements by a few Fed governors, causing some buyers to move to the sidelines.
Pulling in favor of bonds was the dollar, which rose out of its recent trading range with the Japanese yen and other currencies.
Mr. Burgess also said that with no fundamental economic data, traders were conducting their own informal surveys and were "trading on both the Spartan data and euphoria of the budget process being done."
Coming into the new year, the market is also awash with liquidity, Mr. Burgess said. Much trading now may simply involve putting money to work while investors wait for clues to the direction of interest rates.
"Inflation still looks good," Mr. Burgess said, "and as a result, people are comfortable and not afraid to buy longer maturities."
Doug Burtnick, a fixed-income analyst at Technical Data in Boston, said that the firm's survey of portfolio managers indicated that managers were switching to neutral positions, "which would behave well if the yield spread between the short and long maturities widens between now and March."
In the municipal market, where supply remains thin, investors should see a fair number of redemptions of bonds.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD (53%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); RETAIL SALES (86%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



94 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Time for Change in Saudi Arabia

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia is the world's largest oil producer, Washington's largest ally in the Persian Gulf and one of the world's last absolute monarchies. So when its ailing King steps aside and hands control of the country to his half-brother, Americans need to pay attention.
In the short run, the transition from King Fahd to Crown Prince Abdullah, which may only be temporary, is likely to be a smooth one. But unless the new ruler and his successors begin to create more representative political institutions and take steps to restore the kingdom's fiscal equilibrium, domestic tensions could become unmanageable in the next decade, raising serious problems for American foreign policy. 
 Crown Prince Abdullah, like King Fahd, is a son of Saudi Arabia's founder, Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud. Abdul Aziz's many sons have ruled the kingdom in succession since the founding monarch died in 1953. Enough younger brothers-in-waiting remain to keep the royal succession predictable for another decade or more, assuming the monarchy itself endures.
Crown Prince Abdullah will likely hew to the same general policy lines followed by King Fahd -- keeping up oil exports, building alliances to contain potential threats from Iran and maintaining close military cooperation with the United States. But while King Fahd was unabashedly pro-American, Crown Prince Abdullah may give these policies a conservative flavor, showing more sympathy for Arab brethren like Syria and even Iraq, and less warmth toward Washington.
Still, Saudi policies derive as much from the kingdom's basic geographic and economic situation as from the inclinations of its monarchs. Steady, substantial export revenues are needed to sustain the high living standards Saudis have come to expect and to pay off the high cost of the Persian Gulf war. Iran is a continuing worry. It is far more populous than Saudi Arabia, it exports terrorism and Islamic militance and it may be acquiring nuclear weapons.
These factors would seem to make Saudi Arabia a natural ally of the United States, but a similar logic once fed American complacency about ties with the Shah's Iran. Like Iran in the 1970's, Saudi Arabia is not only a key oil exporter but a major purchaser of advanced American weaponry. In Riyadh as in Teheran, a closed political system, corruption and insensitivity to the concerns of Islamic believers can create explosive domestic pressures that could detonate without much warning and with enormous international consequences. Last month's bomb blast outside an American military training facility could be a portent.
In recent years, King Fahd has tried to address these pressures by appointing a consultative assembly. He also began to reduce expensive subsidies on key consumer products. Neither move went far enough, and it will now be up to the more traditionalist Crown Prince Abdullah to speed the momentum of political and economic reform. Opening up a closed system has its risks, but it is the most prudent way to maintain his family's throne.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (74%); IRAN (55%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (59%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (74%); IRAN (55%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (59%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ROYAL FAMILY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); DESERT STORM (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); RELIGION (67%); MILITARY TRAINING (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); 

PERSON: FAHD, KING OF SAUDI ARABIA; ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE) ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



95 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: How To Avoid These Layoffs?

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich is the Secretary of Labor.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If the Federal Government is to do less, then the private sector will have to do more. But AT&T's stunning announcement on the first business day of 1996 that it would permanently lay off 40,000 employees raises profound questions about the private sector's ability to take on more responsibility for Americans' economic well-being.
I do not mean to pick on AT&T. It is but one in a long list of companies that have delivered large numbers of pink slips in recent years, despite record profits. Wall Street's initially positive response to AT&T's announcement suggests that the company may have done exactly the right thing by its shareholders. But this is precisely the issue. Do companies have obligations beyond the bottom line? 
 It has become politically fashionable to argue that movie studios and television networks (and their advertisers) should avoid lewdness or violence, even though these dubious themes generate large audiences and fat profits. Well, what about a corporation's duty to its employees and its community? The sudden loss of a paycheck can be more damaging to family values than a titillating screen performance.
Corporate executives claim, with some justification, that they have no choice. Investors demand that companies become ever leaner and ever meaner. If employees' wages and benefits don't generate a sufficient return, the jobs have to go. And if an entire community loses its economic base because the company can do its work more efficiently elsewhere, so be it.
Chief executive officers once sang a different tune. In a 1951 address that was typical of the era, Frank Abrams, chairman of Standard Oil of New Jersey, proclaimed, "The job of management is to maintain an equitable and working balance among the claims of the various directly interested groups . . . stockholders, employees, customers and the public at large." That very year, Fortune magazine lectured executives on their duty to be "industrial statesmen" who worked for the good of their employees and communities as well as shareholders.
What has changed? Competition. American businesses have been transformed from comfortable and stable rivals into bloodletting gladiators. Airlines, telephone companies, utilities, common carriers -- and Wall Street itself -- have been deregulated. Global competitors threaten the very survival of American manufacturers. In addition, information technologies have radically reduced the transaction time between suppliers, wholesalers, retailers and customers. Entry barriers such as preferential access to capital markets have dropped, allowing small companies to grab market share from big ones.
Because of all these pressures to increase earnings, investors face an ever-wider array of choices of where to put their money -- and enjoy ever-greater ease in moving their money around. Electronic capitalism has replaced the gentlemanly investment system that had given "industrial statesmen" the discretion to balance the interests of shareholders against those of employees and communities. Now, any chief executive who hesitates before doing everything possible to maximize returns to shareholders risks trouble.
Paradoxically, this transformation of the corporation into the agent of the shareholder alone has been accompanied by a growing skepticism about the capacity of government to protect the rest of society.
Regardless of how the current budget negotiations are settled, in the future the Federal Government will have a more modest role in safeguarding the economic security of Americans. States and localities may have more leeway, but will have far fewer resources. And because they will compete with other states and locales to attract companies, they will be reluctant to impose higher taxes or any other extra burdens.
AT&T workers who receive pink slips are fortunate that the company is offering lump-sum severance payments based on years of service, along with extra health benefits. That's more than most companies are providing.
But with less public financing available, the former AT&T employees, like other newly laid-off workers, are likely to have less access than did workers last year to publicly supported retraining, job-search assistance, extended unemployment insurance, health care, food stamps and other props to help them get back on their feet.
The ostensible purpose of eliminating the Federal budget deficit is to give the private sector more capital to invest, thus widening opportunities and raising earnings for all Americans. But as we all see, there is no guarantee that corporations will use the extra resources in this way.
Maximizing shareholders' returns may require investing the extra dollars in production abroad, or in labor-saving equipment intended to reduce wages and cut jobs, or in mergers, acquisitions and divestitures that result in mass layoffs.
How, then, to get the private sector to take more responsibility for their employees and communities?
Exhortation will have, at best, a modest effect. The most eloquent moral appeal will be no match for the dispassionate edict of the market. Nor should we seek a return to the era of industrial statesmanship. Even if we could turn the clock backward and enlarge upon the C.E.O.'s former discretion in balancing the interests of shareholders against those of employees and communities, it is far from clear that society should vest such power in unelected officials.
There is another way. The corporation is, after all, a creation of law; it does not exist in nature. The corporate form of business carries special advantages: Investors are not personally liable for damages or debts. A corporation has the same rights of free speech and legal action that an individual has -- but can live forever. There are disadvantages as well: Corporations must pay taxes on their incomes, as do the investors who receive dividends, resulting in double taxation.
If we want corporations to take more responsibility, we will have to alter this mix of advantages and disadvantages to provide the proper incentives. If we want profitable companies to keep more employees on their payrolls or to place them in new jobs that offer similar wages and benefits, to upgrade their skills, to share more of the profits with them and to remain in their communities, we have to give them an economic reason to do so.
Perhaps the benefits of incorporation should be reserved for companies that demonstrate such responsibility. Alternatively (and more realistically in these parched political times), perhaps corporate income taxes should be reduced or eliminated entirely for companies that do so.
As corporations have focused more and more intensely on increasing shareholders' returns and less and less on improving the standard of living of their workers, it should be no surprise that the stock market has soared while pink slips have proliferated and the paychecks of most employees have gone nowhere.
Do not blame corporations and their top executives. They are behaving exactly as they are organized to behave. If we want them to put greater emphasis on the interests of their workers and communities, society must reorganize them to do so. In this era of smaller government, such steps seem warranted.

GRAPHIC: Illustration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (52%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CORPORATIONS; LABOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAYOFFS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); FAMILY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); AIRLINES (60%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B (SEC)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



96 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Paying to pollute: a free market solution that's yet to be tested.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
THE 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act give electric power companies the right to pay to pollute, much the way sinners bought indulgences in the Middle Ages. Yet although the trading of sulfur emissions between utilities is now permitted, there is not much activity in this market, and prices of marketable permits are far below initial projections. Does that mean the system is not working -- that free market environmentalism is being sabotaged by myopic corporate executives or hostile state regulators?
According to the latest studies, the answer is both cheerier and more complicated. So far, it seems, trading among utilities has not been needed to meet Federal standards. Indeed, A. Denny Ellerman, director of the Center for Energy and Environmental Policy at M.I.T., argues that thanks to the plunging price of low-sulfur coal "compliance has been essentially free" in some parts of the country. 
 It is not yet known, though, whether the utilities will exploit the advantages of trading when pollution controls are tightened in coming years. "The issue has yet to be tested," says Daniel J. Dudek of the Environmental Defense Fund.
Federal law requires utilities to limit the sulfur emissions from the country's 110 dirtiest plants -- all of them coal-fired -- to 2.5 pounds for every million British thermal units of energy generated. In 2000, the limit will be extended to all power plants and maximum sulfur emissions will be pared to 1.2 pounds to a million B.T.U.'s. (A million B.T.U.'s is enough heat to make about 100 kilowatt-hours of electricity, a little less than the typical American household uses in a week).
Unlike earlier legislation, the Clean Air Act of 1990 applies to the corporate emissions average: a utility may exceed the limit on one plant by running a very clean operation at another. What's more, it allows individual utilities to buy permits from other power producers, or to bank excess compliance for future use.
In 1990 the Environmental Protection Agency estimated that the right to emit of ton of sulfur would be worth about $750. The figure represented the agency's best guess about the cost of the alternatives -- shutting dirty plants, switching fuels and adding catalytic sulfur scrubbers. But permits have generally run below $150 a ton, and organized trading on the Chicago Board of Trade has been far lighter than expected. Just one utility in six is using the market to comply with the law.
One explanation is that the market has been sabotaged. If, for example, state regulators allow utilities to earn a guaranteed return on outlays for expensive scrubbers, but don't allow them to profit from skillful emissions trading, there would not be much demand for marketable permits.
In fact, there has not been much trading because utilities have taken advantage of their newly won flexibility to offset emissions by cleaning up other plants within their own systems. "Two-thirds of gains have come through intra-utility trading," said Robert N. Stavins of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
One key has been access to cheap, clean fuel. Increased competition among railroads, made possible by rail deregulation, has sharply reduced the price of low-sulfur coal mined in the Plains states for delivery to the Midwest and the South. That allows utilities to burn coal in some plants with as little as a half-pound of sulfur in each million B.T.U.'s, reducing overall utility emissions to the allowable tonnage at little or no cost.
Dallas Burtraw, an economist at Resources for the Future, also notes that new technology has lowered the cost of meeting the sulfur standard. Fuel blending -- mixing low- and high-sulfur coal -- has proved easier than expected. And the price of scrubbing sulfur from smokestacks has fallen by half since 1989.
What's yet to be determined, though, is whether utilities will use the market when pollution requirements tighten and the economic advantages of emissions trading emerge. A number of states are putting pressure on power producers to buy high-sulfur coal from local mines. Indeed, last year a Federal appeals court struck down Illinois legislation that would have required utilities to install scrubbers -- and thus become a captive market for high-sulfur coal.
Even the states without such parochial agendas are sending out mixed signals. Some environmental groups are still ready to cheer on local regulators who frown on utilities that choose to "pay to pollute." And no state has ruled that utilities with the foresight to buy marketable permits cheaply will be allowed to keep the benefits.
Perhaps the best hope is that the wave of electric utility deregulation will end the states' will or capacity to micromanage environmental fixes. If states forgo the right to dictate who sells power at what price -- if electricity is sold in a national market -- competition will force producers to minimize costs. "At least a billion dollars a year in savings" is on the line, Mr. Burtraw says.

GRAPHIC: Drawing
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (62%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AIR RIGHTS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION EMISSIONS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); 

PERSON: ELLERMAN, A DENNY; PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



97 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS;
North Korea To Join World In Atlanta

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN 

 BODY:
North Korea agreed yesterday to send its athletes to Atlanta next summer, meaning that, for the first time in the century of the modern Olympics, all invited nations have agreed to participate in the Summer Games.
Although it ignored last November's deadline, North Korea reconsidered after recent communications with former President Jimmy Carter and with Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee. 
 The former President, considered a pariah by some in the Olympic movement for the United States boycott of the 1980 Summer Games in Moscow, is now partly responsible for what will be the most inclusive participation ever in the Summer Olympics.
The parade of nations at the July 19 opening ceremonies is scheduled to include 10,700 athletes from all 197 national Olympic committees, a number swelled by the breakup of the former Soviet Union and the splintering of Yugoslavia. Because of political boycotts, war and economic difficulties, some invitations to previous Summer Games have invariably been declined.
"This is great news," Billy Payne, Atlanta's chief Olympic organizer, said yesterday in a telephone interview. "It's something we had hoped for for years, believing that with the wonderful goals and purposes of the Games, they are best fulfilled when you have the entire world present."
North Korea will send approximately 16 athletes to Atlanta to compete in weight lifting, track and field and shooting, along with an unspecified number of athletes to compete in boxing, judo and gymnastics, Francois Carrard, the I.O.C.'s director general, said in a telephone interview from Lausanne, Switzerland.
"It might be easier to get all of the nations to participate in a small, neutral country that doesn't make political waves," Carrard said. "Getting them all together for the centennial Games is a really great thrill."
North Korea boycotted the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles in response to the Carter-enforced boycott of the 1980 Games in Moscow. North Korea also boycotted the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul because of its continuing hostilities with South Korea. It participated in the 1992 Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain, but was the only nation other than Afghanistan not to respond to Atlanta's invitation by the November deadline.
Afghanistan, citing a simple communications problem with the I.O.C., last month agreed to participate, leaving out only North Korea, which had seemed to grow as isolationist in its sporting endeavors as in its politics.
Olympic officials inside and outside the United States said they did not know why North Korea had initially ignored Atlanta's invitation, although they speculated about possible political and economic reasons, such as friction over its nuclear program, and food shortages that have reportedly led to famine in parts of the country.
But Carter had contacts with the North Koreans, having conducted nuclear diplomacy in Pyongyang in June 1994 with the North Korean President, Kim Il Sung, who has since died. Carter wrote a letter early last month asking Communist officials to reconsider their participation in Atlanta.
"Because of his relationship and ability to communicate with the North Koreans, he was able to help reopen lines of communication between the I.O.C. and North Korea," Carrie Harmon, a spokeswoman for the Carter Center in Atlanta, said yesterday. Aides said Carter was not available for comment.
On Dec. 18, Samaranch sent a letter to Pak Myong Chol, president of North Korea's Olympic committee, and a day later, Carter reported that the North Koreans were reconsidering. Yesterday, they officially agreed to participate. Still to be worked out are "wild card," or automatic berths in Olympic events for which the North Koreans have missed the qualifying tournaments. To defray costs, North Korea and other participating nations can count on the I.O.C. to pay the expenses of six athletes, a program that began in 1984.
Carter's role as Olympic diplomat is in stark contrast with his unpopular decision -- at least in Olympic circles -- to boycott the 1980 Moscow Games because of the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan.
Brought together in Atlanta by Payne several years ago, Carter and Samaranch discussed their differences and, in Payne's words, "departed as friends and agreed to look to the future and not backward."
"I applaud Mr. Carter for his efforts, large or small, in bringing North Korea into the Olympic Games," said John Lucas, an Olympics expert at Penn State University. "The cynics will say, 'so what?' But Mr. Carter has made an effort for world peace and international understanding."
Still, even 15 years later, the Carter-mandated boycott of 1980 lingers with former American Olympians who were left with no place to compete.
"He has made some impressive efforts at world peace, but he missed one of the big ones," said Anita DeFrantz of Los Angeles, a rower on the 1980 Olympic team and now a member of the I.O.C. "People felt sorry for him because he so clearly misunderstood what the Olympics were about. He was dead wrong. But if he did something with the North Koreans that helped, thank you."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (87%); SWITZERLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (52%); 

COMPANY: CARTER CENTER (93%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (76%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (76%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; ATLANTA (GA); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (87%); SWITZERLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (52%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); FAMINE (78%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); WEIGHTLIFTING (73%); MARTIAL ARTS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (60%); 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE JIMMY CARTER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



98 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE EFFECTS;
Paralysis Brought On by Shutdown Begins to Seep to the Private Sector

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
As the Federal Government wound through the 19th day of its partial shutdown, effects of the budget impasse rippled across the country, closing state unemployment offices in Kansas, leaving complaints about workplace safety unanswered and causing the Environmental Protection Agency to suspend clean up operations at scores of toxic waste dumps.
The second shutdown in a month began in mid-December, closing two-thirds of the Cabinet agencies and putting 280,000 Federal employees out of work. And as the weeks pass, more programs are running short of money. 
 As a result, the shutdown's effects are spreading beyond the Federal work force, 15 percent of which has been furloughed, and beyond the disappointed tourists denied admission to national parks and museums.
In highlighting an array of Government services that were coming to a halt, President Clinton said today that the Meals on Wheels program, which provides food for the homebound elderly, will run out of money this week. And by the end of the week, 11 states, the District of Columbia and the United States Virgin Islands will have used up money to run unemployment offices.
In late December, White House officials said, states received only 40 percent of the quarterly matching payments they had expected from the Federal Government to pay for Medicaid, the insurance program for the poor. The Federal matching money for Medicaid and its 36 million beneficiaries will run out entirely in late January, they said.
The chairman of the executive committee of the Judicial Conference, which supervises the Federal courts, warned today of severe consequences if the shutdown continued much longer. "Federal courts will very shortly run out of money to operate, imperiling the judges' ability to administer justice," said the chairman, Judge Gilbert S. Merritt of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
Judge Merritt said that his committee determined today that the Federal courts could be maintained only until mid-January unless money was made available.
Judges would work without additional financing, Judge Merritt said, but other court personnel would not. That could mean, he said, that judges would not be able to conduct trials, that defendants might have to be released because of the Speedy Trial Act and that air and water pollution decrees might go unenforced.
The shutdown has also taken a toll on companies that rely on the Government as a major customer and those that need special Federal approvals to carry out their business. Commerce Department officials say, for example, that more than 1,000 applications for export licenses, which are required for the export of some strategically important goods, are not being processed.
The Environmental Protection Agency, meanwhile, has issued orders this week to stop work at 450 to 620 Superfund cleanup sites, idling as many as 10,000 contractors, subcontractors and others.
One victim is Insitu Inc., a 60-employee company in Laramie, Wyo., that normally sells $20,000 of groundwater monitoring equipment daily. Today, Insitu did "nothing," the company's chief executive, Chester McKee, said, adding that the budget impasse had already cost the family owned company $100,000 in profits.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Furloughed Federal workers are flooding their credit unions to apply for loans to compensate for their salaries. John Santarpia, the chief executive at the Central Federal Credit Union at the Department of Veterans Affairs, helped Edie Makse in advising Tonya Frazier, left, and Joyce Lewis on loans.; Furloughed workers of the Department of Housing and Urban Development in Los Angeles demonstrated outside their building yesterday to protest the showdown. Vicky Lawson, a pregnant worker, was comforted by her friend Shannon Timmons and her husband, Ruperto Lawson. All are furloughed.; Caught in the Federal budget impasse, kitchen employees at the Veterans Hospital in Miami were given packaged food yesterday to help them overcome the financial hardship of having to work without pay. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (55%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LARAMIE, WY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INSITU INC (58%); MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (55%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LARAMIE, WY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); SUPERFUND (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); MEALS ON WHEELS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (57%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%); 

PERSON: GILBERT S MERRITT (79%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



99 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE EFFECTS -- In Washington;
Indirect Victims Of the Stalemate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
When Constance Conrad died last month, the responsibility of running her management company passed to her 29-year-old nephew, Thomas. One of his first decisions was to furlough 20 employees, because the Federal agencies with which he has contracts had shut down.
Today, with the shutdown no nearer to an end, Mr. Conrad was still agonizing over the layoffs. 
 "Even though it's not my fault, I feel responsible," he said. "These people have mortgages to pay, children in school, car notes. Most never believed they lived paycheck to paycheck until something like this happens. Now they do, and some of them, I know, are in dire straits."
Small-business owners like Mr. Conrad, and the workers they employ, form what Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District of Columbia's delegate to the House of Representatives, calls "the concentric circles" of the budget stalemate: people whose livelihoods depend on a Government operating at full capacity and who, unlike Federal workers, have no reason to expect retroactive pay once a budget agreement is reached.
Ms. Norton was joined at a news conference today by Mr. Conrad and several other such people, and said they were the "untold story" of the shutdown. They included Senaite Assefa, who said she had been forced to shorten the hours of the delicatessen she runs three blocks from the White House; Tom Mack, the owner of a tour-bus company who has laid off 40 drivers because of the closing of landmarks, and Edward Orechowski, president of Catholic Charities of Washington, who said the agency had been besieged by requests for financial assistance.
Emily Vetter, president of the Hotel Association of Washington, said the six-day Government shutdown in November and the current closings had cost local hotels almost $20 million.
Worse than that, Ms. Vetter said, they have shaken Washington's reputation as a tourist stop, threatening future bookings by sending a message to would-be visitors that "ours is not a reliable destination."
Ms. Norton said that while "an astonishing number of communities" were reporting major losses from the shutdown, Washington, as the seat of the Federal Government, was the biggest loser, with tourism and other businesses that fuel its economy "collapsing like dominoes."
Indeed, some parts of the capital have taken on the look of a ghost town. Streets are empty. Offices appear dark. Cabs are easy to find.
Safwat Ezzat, who has a vending cart on a corner two blocks from the White House, said the shutdown had cut his daily sales to less than $100, from $400, and had prevented him from replenishing stock. "Look," he said, pointing to a bin usually overflowing with sodas and ice teas. "I have no money to buy new supplies. Same with candy."
A woman appeared, asking for a hot pretzel.
"Sorry," he said. "I have no more." MICHAEL JANOFSKY

GRAPHIC: Photo: The forced reduction in the Federal work force has caused slumps in some businesses in downtown Washington. Safwat Ezzat said sales had plummeted at his hot dog stand two blocks from the White House. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BACK PAY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); CHARITIES (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



100 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE EFFECTS -- In Kansas;
No More Benefits For Unemployment

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Jan 3

 BODY:
The Kansas Department of Human Resources, which distributes unemployment benefits across the state, put up signs on Tuesday at its eight district offices saying the offices would be closed until further notice, "due to the impasse in Washington." As a result, many out-of-work Kansans wanting to collect their unemployment checks are out of luck.
The problem is not a lack of money to pay the benefits; it is a lack of Federal money to pay the salaries of the people who run the unemployment offices and disburse the benefits. 
 "The pot of money that pays for unemployment is out of Washington," said Angela Goering, director of communications at the Kansas unemployment service, "and that money just ran out."
About 400 state employees who work in the unemployment offices have been furloughed, Ms. Goering said, and as a result, many of the estimated 19,000 out-of-work Kansans -- about 3.9 percent of the state's population -- will not receive their unemployment checks starting this week. The average weekly check, she said, is $194.
Other states, like neighboring Missouri, have borrowed from other state funds to pay employees and have not had to shut their unemployment offices. And some unemployed people in Kansas have crossed the border to Kansas City, Mo., to try to file their Kansas claims, said Jackie Jackson, manager of the Kansas City office of the Missouri Department of Employment Security. Ms. Jackson described Tuesday as "a real wild day."
"It's a double whammy for these people," Ms. Jackson said. "They're already unemployed; now they have to deal with not getting their unemployment checks."
Ms. Jackson said that more than 25 people from Kansas came to the Missouri agency's office in downtown Kansas City and either applied for new benefits or applied to receive this week's benefits. "But with no one at work in Kansas, the requests will just sit in the computer," she said.
Missouri officials have said they have money to keep their state's unemployment office open for the next four to six weeks regardless of whether the impasse in Washington is ended.
New Jersey, Maine, New Mexico and Rhode Island are among other states that are running out of Federal money to administer their unemployment programs, Federal officials in Washington said.
In Kansas, Ms. Goering said state offices have been fielding calls from the unemployed for two days.
"They're angry already," she said, "but as far as I know, there's been no organized effort to do anything about this on the part of the unemployed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MISSOURI DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; KANSAS; UNITED STATES (95%); MISSOURI, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); 

PERSON: JACKIE JACKSON (87%); ANGELA GOERING (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



101 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Central Asia Should Win the New 'Great Game'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your editorial "The New Great Game in Asia" (Jan. 2): The original Great Game, between imperial Russia, China and Britain, brought nothing but misery and destruction to its playing field, Asia's heartland. The game was settled amicably in the 1940's by the wartime alliance of the major players. Each power took its share of Central Asia's vast natural wealth, while the titularly independent states of Afghanistan, Mongolia and Nepal (and originally Tibet) were created -- not as genuinely autonomous republics but as "neutral" buffer states, confined to desolate and impoverished lands to keep the main imperial armies from direct confrontation.
While the game in Central Asia has always been between three Great Powers (with the United States now substituting for Britain), the important struggle has been between the people of Central Asia and the combined imperial powers. 
 Seen in this light, it is wrong to suggest, as you do, that a solution lies in "equitably sharing profits" among all those with historic or economic claims. You say that Moscow's claims go back to the czarist conquest (although the Central Asian khanates were never "Islamic emirates," as you call them, having always been heterodox and heterogeneous in terms of religion and structures of authority). Why does some past brutal military conquest give an imperial power a valid current claim? Does Spain have some claim to the oil wealth of Venezuela? Can Japan claim a share in the riches of the Philippines?
You say that "everybody could benefit . . . by agreeing to split the winnings," and you hasten to mention the necessity of "Western and Japanese capital." But it is doubtful that your "everybody" would include anybody -- any single ordinary person -- in Central Asia. So far, the generous infusion of capital and technology from the United States, Japan and the Persian Gulf has meant skyrocketing inflation throughout the region, the creation of a new and onerous comprador class and the impoverishment of the general population.
A real solution to Central Asia's dilemma does not lie in any pipeline deal, nor in any distribution of the region's wealth among the Great Powers -- Chevron, Exxon and Mobil among them. Rather, Central Asia should be reclaimed by Central Asians. Chechnya, Tatarstan, East Turkestan (Xinjiang), Tibet and Kashmir, at the least, should have their autonomy -- if not independence -- respected. Mongolia should be restored to twice its current size.
Instead of agreeing to divide the spoils in Central Asia, the Great Powers should learn the lesson of the old Great Game and agree to withdraw their covert agents and support for their puppet politicians. In such case, the despotic regimes in the region would crumble and the Central Asian peoples could decide how best to steward their resources -- for their benefit and, ultimately, ours.
 
GEOFFREY SEA
Oakland, Calif., Jan. 2, 1996
 
The writer is a historian of science with extensive experience in Central Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: ASIA (99%); CENTRAL ASIA (97%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SPAIN (54%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ASIA (99%); CENTRAL ASIA (97%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SPAIN (54%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); RELIGION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SEA, GEOFFREY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996



102 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Add Fertility Contol To Ethiopia Equation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Even With Peace and Rain, Ethiopia Fears Famine" (news article, Jan. 3), the consultant Henry Gordon claims that generating growth in the economy will "in itself bring the population of Ethiopia down." Dr. Gordon asserts that economic, rather than demographic, considerations should be foremost in the effort to create sustainability in Ethiopia. In the same article, Tom Sheehy even goes so far as to say that focusing on population control without increasing incomes is "like putting the cart before the horse." 
 Certainly, economic development is important in providing for sustainability in Ethiopia. But as the article points out, the population is doubling every 20 years. Does Ethiopia have time to focus solely on economic matters while the average woman bears seven children in her lifetime? Even with improved infrastructure and privatized land, will Ethiopia be able to produce food for the projected 90 million citizens in the year 2010? How long will it take for improved economic conditions to start reducing fertility?
Reducing fertility is not the sole answer to improving the welfare of Ethiopians, but it should be part of the equation.
 
JANE S. DE LUNG
Pres., Population Resource Center
Princeton, N.J., Jan. 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA; ETHIOPIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMINE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CHILDREN (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); 

PERSON: DE LUNG, JANE S HENRY GORDON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



103 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Brendan Byrne Arena Goes Continental

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Jan. 4

 BODY:
For nearly 15 years, it was officially the Brendan Byrne Arena. But that political homage to the former Democratic governor was covered forever today by a banner heralding the benefactor paying $29 million through 2007 as title sponsor of the arena: Continental Airlines.
The 20,000-seat facility at the Meadowlands Sports Complex is now the Continental Airlines Arena. 
 "This is not politically motivated," said Michael Francis, chairman of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which runs the complex, during a news conference at the arena's center court. "If a Republican's name had been on it, it would have come down. There's nothing personal. This was based solely on economics."
Those economics were imposed upon the sports authority during the often-acrimonious negotiations that led to the Devils' new lease to continue playing hockey at the arena. The agency had to provide a guaranteed cash flow for the team's use in securing a 12-year, $25 million loan.
The Devils will get 30 percent of Continental's payments. The Nets' share has not been determined.
Continental will pay $750,000 this year, $1.5 million next year, $2.25 million in 1998 and $1.5 million a year from 1999 to 2007. It will also provide the sports authority with $700,000 worth of travel annually, which may be used for the Devils and Nets' travel, but can also be resold at 80 percent of the tickets' face value. Continental can cancel with two years' notice, starting in 2000.
"But we intend to be here for a very long time," said Gregory Brenneman, the airline's chief operating officer.
Robert Mulcahy, president of the sports authority, said Continental is paying more than any other arena title sponsor in the nation. "The others average about $1 million each," he said. "Ours is the best."
Mulcahy, who served Byrne as chief of staff before running the sports authority, said old ties with the former governor had to give way to improving the arena's finances.
"When you deal with friendship, it's very difficult," he said, "but my responsibility as the C.E.O. is to run this facility as well as possible."
Continental is the eighth airline to put its name on a sports facility, including America West Arena in Phoenix and the Delta Center in Salt Lake City.
Over all, two dozen companies have their names on major sports facilities, including Bank One Ball Park, in Phoenix ($66 million for 30 years), Fleet Center in Boston ($30 million for 15 years) and CoreStates Spectrum in Philadelphia ($40 million for 20 years), according to I.E.G. Sponsorship Report.
"You pay a ton of money, but you get a lot of visibility," said Lesa Ukman, I.E.G.'s editor. "When you're the title sponsor, you ride free on lots of visibility. Events will be advertised as taking place at the Continental Arena. If their teams made the playoffs, it's great publicity."
But there is no actual gauge for the efficiency or impact of a sponsorship.
"It's hard to weigh the value of the association," Brenneman said, "but being with the arena helps us build a long-term image."
Continental believes its sponsorship will enhance its local name recognition as the biggest employer and airline at Newark International Airport, one of the airline's three United States passenger hubs. "We need to support the community in our hub cities and this is a great way to do it," Brenneman said.
Kevin Murphy, an airline analyst at Morgan Stanley, said: "It's worked well for other airlines. It's good corporate awareness. Continental is New Jersey's airline. They've made great strides to improve service at Newark."
The airline also wants to capitalize on the exposure derived from its pilots identifying the arena to passengers on flyovers; from its name being seen on the arena's ice and hardwood floor, and from being seen and cited during broadcasts of Nets, Seton Hall and Devils games and the National Collegiate Athletic Association men's basketball Final Four this spring.
"If you establish the value of the TV exposure we will get during games, it well exceeds what we're paying," Brenneman said.
It also wanted to reward employees and passengers with free tickets to the arena's events. A dozen employees, all in uniform, today received free tickets to Friday's Nets game in honor of their perfect attendance.
Brenneman said that those who come to the arena have the financial wherewithal to fly, and Continental will set up a ticket office at the arena.
In the past year, the once-bankrupt Continental's financial fortunes have revived dramatically, as has its on-time performance and luggage handling.
From a 1994 loss of $613 million, it produced net income of $183 million through last November. But the airline industry is notoriously cyclical and can turn black ink to red quickly.
"Whether we're in good times or in slight dips, we will be in Newark and be a large force to be reckoned with," Brenneman said.
Mulcahy added, "They've been a sponsor here since 1991 and always paid their bills."
Mulcahy said the Giants have a lease provision that would let them sell their own title sponsorship to Giants Stadium, and there have been no corporate takers to rename the Meadowlands Racetrack.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory Brenneman airlines C.E.O., and Michael Francis, chairman of the authority, in arena yesterday. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); BYRNE MEADOWLANDS ARENA (NJ); CONTINENTAL AIRLINES ARENA (MEADOWLANDS) SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; BRENNEMAN, GREGORY G; FRANCIS, MICHAEL D GREGORY BRENNEMAN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



104 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Statistical Casualties in Battle of the Budget

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
On the first Friday of almost every month, the Government publishes statistics on employment, its single most important set of figures on the economy, watched by business people and ordinary workers as well as economists, bond and stock traders.
The 21-page Employment Situation release, along with a hearing on it conducted by the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, is a regular part of the city's enduring rituals. On occasions over the last four decades, Labor Department officials have slept in their offices to make sure that blizzards would not prevent its release. But what storms cannot do, the budget impasse has. The partial shutdown of the Federal Government has furloughed most workers in the Federal statistical system, and the numbers will not appear. 
 "This is the first employment release we've ever missed," lamented William G. Barron Jr., Deputy Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "It's unthinkable in the B.L.S. work ethic."
The postponement of the labor-market data is the latest and most important in a series of statistical casualties since mid-December that has already claimed figures on housing, incomes, international trade, orders for durable goods and an updating of total economic output for the quarter that ended in September. Reports on consumer prices and producer prices for December, scheduled for next week, will also be delayed.
Although the situation is not yet desperate -- and apparently has not had a major impact on financial markets so far -- that could change. In the absence of the normal barrage of economic data, a report today that a round of budget talks had been called off was enough to send the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 50 points, and it finished off 20.23 points, at 5,173.84. [Page D6.] Bond prices also fell sharply, with the yield on the 30-year bond jumping back above the 6 percent level, to 6.02 percent, from 5.95 percent on Wednesday. [Page D16.]
And officials and private analysts say the need to get statisticians back to work by mid-January has now become urgent. Indeed, this week two governors of the Federal Reserve Board, the vice chairman, Alan S. Blinder, and Janet Yellen, have said the lack of data is already starting to impair the central bank in its conduct of monetary policy. That concern could easily move markets if the dearth of data continues.
The Fed's policy body is scheduled to meet at month's end to decide, most immediately, whether the economy needs the spur of another cut in short-term interest rates.
Specialists say that the paucity of data is almost certain to cause increasingly erratic movement in bonds and stocks. "We are going to see more volatility in markets," said Everett M. Ehrlich, Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs.
Today, the National Association of Business Economists expressed its concern about the situation, contending that lack of information could prove so inhibiting that companies as well as the Federal Reserve would make poor decisions and even push an already weakened economy into a recession.
"While the limited, privately provided economic data available can give us some indication," said the group's board of directors, "they are no substitute" for the official numbers. "A serious slowing of the economy that is not recognized because of a lack of data could unnecessarily risk tipping the economy into recession."
Mr. Ehrlich put it more simply. "Information," he said, "is the lubricant of the economy."
And while the December data for all the major indicators have been collected, they remain unprocessed and this could cause a problem for January collection by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of, for example, the Producer Price Indexes, since the preceding month's responses are often used to "frame" subsequent questions.
And the accuracy of the Consumer Price Index would be at least slightly impaired by the inability of surveyors to work as scheduled this week, thus distorting comparison with other months because they include prices gathered during the first week of the month. "Now it's a question of comparability," Mr. Barron said.
Bruce Steinberg, a senior economist at Merrill Lynch, expressed no particular concern for the numbers delayed so far but said "that is about to change" because of the postponement of the Producer Price Index, the Consumer Price Index and retail sales reports for December -- all initially scheduled for next Thursday and Friday.
And the report on January employment, scheduled to be released on Feb. 2, is now almost certain to be delayed with at least some loss of accuracy, officials said.
"The longer it lasts, the less certain we are of having a good sense of where the economy is really going," Mr. Steinberg added. "Both the markets and the Fed are increasingly going to be flying blind."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Held Up" lists economic indicators that have been delayed because of the partial Federal Government shutdown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; INCOME; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BONDS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); ETHICS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



105 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Apply New Vigor in Policing Trade

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration plans to announce a broad initiative to enforce dozens of trade accords with China, Japan, Canada and other big trading partners, in a move that appears directed at protecting President Clinton from Republican accusations that his free trade agreements are costing jobs in the United States.
Administration officials said today that as part of the initiative, the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, would create an enforcement office, charged with forcing several nations to live up to their agreements. 
 But Mr. Kantor, who was President Clinton's campaign chairman in 1992, said that the effort to be announced on Friday would be much broader, involving the Commerce Department and other agencies.
"We're convinced that you've got to be willing to show the sword to get results," said Stuart E. Eizenstat, President Jimmy Carter's domestic-policy adviser, who was nominated by President Clinton this week to be under secretary of commerce for international trade. "We know that making the case for free trade also means showing that we are not going to tolerate violations of the agreements we have already reached."
Administration officials have frequently spoken of a more rigorous monitoring of trade accords. And to get those agreements, the Clinton White House has threatened sanctions against trading partners, including close allies, far more often than previous administrations.
But after grabbing considerable attention with its threats, especially during the protracted dispute with Japan last year over automobile trade, the Administration stopped short of invoking many of those sanctions, declaring that last-minute agreements made them unnecessary.
Until now, however, there has been no formal system for resuscitating agreements that are failing, whether with South Korea, Canada or others.
And while Administration officials say that they are simply carrying through on three-year-old promises to enforce American trade laws, the new and tougher tone seems prompted, at least in part, by fear that Patrick J. Buchanan, along with other Republican Presidential aspirants, is striking a chord in voters by arguing that the Administration has become a paper tiger on trade matters -- threatening, but rarely acting.
If a major showdown develops this election year, many trade experts and some Administration officials say, it will probably be with China.
So far, the Beijing authorities have done very little to enforce a significant agreement struck last February to crack down on the piracy of music, movies and computer software. American officials say that 29 Chinese factories churning out huge volumes of counterfeit compact disks are still running at top speed.
Mr. Kantor has set a deadline next month for China to change its ways and avoid a renewal of trade sanctions against exports to the United States.
The issue is also politically charged in Congress, where Republicans and Democrats both say that Beijing's continued repression of dissidents, combined with the soaring American trade deficit, has undermined the Administration's policy of "comprehensive engagement.". The term describes a strategy in which economic and commercial ties are used to attempt to influence countries' political behavior.
Publicly, the Clinton Administration continues to defend its China policy, arguing that it was right to stop linking the renewal of preferential trade status for the Chinese to their record on human rights. In private, though, there is increasing nervousness that Mr. Clinton is open to the same accusation that he leveled at George Bush in 1992: that the United States is coddling China's leaders to benefit American exports.
Assailing China's failure to comply with trade accords has the political advantage of getting tough without bringing human rights into the discussion.
"The pattern has been that the United States calls on China to remedy its trade sins, China agrees to do so, then China breaks its promise," Greg Mastel, a China expert at the Economic Strategy Institute, wrote recently. "The credibility of U.S. trade policy around the world will be severely undermined if such blatant disregard goes unanswered."
In a speech scheduled for Friday, Mr. Kantor is expected to steer clear of the matter of intellectual-property rights, another area in dispute with China, because negotiations are under way to resolve it without threatening to reimpose $1 billion in trade sanctions.
He is, though, expected to announce a series of enforcement actions involving other countries.
One of the first is with Canada, which recently placed an 80 percent tax on advertising carried in Canadian editions of Sports Illustrated, a Time Warner property. American officials view the tax as an effort to protect Canadian publications from competition, and argue that it violates both the North American Free Trade Agreement and the world trade accord signed last year.
Another early action expected would seek enforcement of Japanese obligations -- not those involving last year's agreement over autos and auto parts, which the Administration says is being faithfully observed -- but Japan's refusal to protect music recordings made between 1946 and 1971.
It may be the first time, Mr. Kantor conceded today, that he has come to the defense of Frank Sinatra, the Beatles and Bo Diddley -- artists whose early recordings have remained popular in Japan.
Another important American ally, South Korea, will also be a target: It reached an agreement last year to permit American meat to be sold in its grocery stores, but it has missed several deadlines to file the agreement with the World Trade Organization in Geneva. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; CANADA; ; CANADA; ; CANADA; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; ; CANADA; UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (73%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KANTOR, MICKEY; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J BILL CLINTON (93%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



106 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A new survey seeks to gauge the research needs of American companies as they look abroad.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE association representing companies that conduct marketing and opinion surveys for corporate America has conducted a survey of its own.
The Council of American Survey Research Organizations, known as Casro, is releasing the results of its initial survey, which canvassed 313 executives at large and midsized corporations. The study, conducted during the summer, focused primarily on issues related to the growing globalization of American businesses and their intentions toward using research in markets overseas. 
 Annual revenue for the research industry in this country is estimated by Casro at $3.5 billion to $4 billion. Seven members of the association contributed their services to the survey, which has roughly the same purpose as a campaign that an advertising agency creates to help promote itself to marketers.
"This is our first foray into the public arena in terms of getting information out about the value of research," said Diane Bowers, executive director of Casro in Port Jefferson, L.I., which represents 165 companies responsible for about 85 percent of all survey research in the United States.
"The goal of the survey researcher is to be thought of as a consulting expert on how to market your products and services based on what your customer or your potential customer thinks," she added. "From the positive side, we're finding that research is being looked at more as a part of the marketing function" at corporations.
The survey found that a corporation spent on average almost $5 million on research pertaining to international markets. But 84 percent of that spending went to in-house efforts rather than hiring outsiders -- members of Casro, say -- to gather the data.
"There are still some corporations that feel they don't need formal research, particularly if they have sales reps in the field from whom they get feedback," said Nicholas Tortorello, a senior vice president at Roper Starch Worldwide in New York, one of the seven Casro members contributing to the survey.
"But most are starting to realize that they need objective research because they can't really rely on what they hear from people who work for them," he added.
When asked in the survey why they conduct research internationally, 43 percent of the respondents said they sought to assess international business opportunities or wanted a better understanding of the potential of international markets. Seventeen percent said they were interested in assessing how their products were or would be received overseas.
When the respondents were asked where research was conducted during the last three years, Latin America and Mexico was the No. 1 answer, at 80 percent, followed by Western Europe, at 79 percent, and Asia, at 77 percent. Asked to predict where they would conduct research in the next three years, Asia moved into first place, at 84 percent, followed by Latin America and Mexico at 80 percent and Western Europe at 74 percent.
Though only 40 percent of respondents said they conducted research in Eastern Europe during the last three years, 60 percent said they planned research in that region in the next three years.
There was another large increase in a question about Africa: though 22 percent of respondents said they conducted research there during the last three years, 32 percent said they intended to do so in the next three years.
One reason Casro commissioned the survey, Ms. Bowers said, was to help distinguish the survey research industry from "other industries that it so often gets caught up with," like telemarketing and direct marketing. She lamented what she described as the problems caused "by '900'-number telephone polls, which aren't legitimate research based on statistically representative samples," and "the confusion between telemarketing and survey calls."
Survey research executives have now coined words for those difficulties, Ms. Bowers said. Misrepresentation under the guise of conducting a survey is "mugging," selling under the guise of research is "sugging" and polls that are statistically shaky are "pugging."
Mugging and sugging and pugging, oh my!
The other Casro members that contributed to the survey, in addition to Roper Starch, were: AUS Consultants/ICR Survey Research Group in Media, Pa., owned by AUS Consultants; Audits and Surveys Worldwide in New York; the Gordon S. Black Corporation in Rochester; Chesapeake Surveys in Owings Mills, Md.; Coast to Coast Telephone Center Inc. in Stamford, Conn., owned by Rothstein-Tauber, and the Total Research Corporation in Princeton, N.J. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF AMERICAN SURVEY RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS GFK AG (58%); COUNCIL OF AMERICAN SURVEY RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF AMERICAN SURVEY RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS COUNCIL OF AMERICAN SURVEY RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; MARKET RESEARCH POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES PROSPECTING (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); SALES FORCE (66%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART DIANE BOWERS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



107 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Plummet On Delay in Budget Talks

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply late yesterday as budget meetings in Washington were unexpectedly postponed and investors grew wary about the progress of those talks.
Bonds, headed for a second consecutive day of gains, bounced in choppy trading, with the market supported by a strong dollar in overseas trading and expectations that a budget resolution was near. But early optimism turned to late disappointment as market participants were suddenly forced to come to grips with the probability of no budget agreement this week, as the budget talks were called off. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 1 5/32 of a percentage point, to 111 22/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose back above the 6 percent level, to 6.02 percent, from 5.95 percent on Wednesday.
Early into yesterday's session, prospects of a budget agreement helped to both bolster the dollar and indirectly support bonds. A strong American dollar in foreign currency trading makes dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities more attractive to foreign investors with weaker currencies.
Some investors who had been waiting for a budget agreement to sell because they feared missing a strong rally were tempted to make a move often yesterday by headlines on electronic news services that pointed to questions about whether a deal could be struck, to the fact that there were still fundamental differences and to talk of Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin's impeachment if he should continue to bypass Congress to avoid the national debt limit.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, said: "The stalemate in Washington is clearly a pain to a lot of people and caused the market to go into a funk this afternoon. But at the same time, it's part of the democratic process. Who among us would prefer an alternative system?
"Even a near-term solution to the current paralysis in Washington, either with a budget accord, or more likely, another continuing resolution, would only partially solve some of the issues currently facing the market," Mr. Fine said.
"Indeed, when the Federal Open Market Committee meets on Jan. 30 and 31, it will have only slightly more data to peruse than what was available at the December meeting, and in most cases the additional data will merely confirm the anecdotal evidence that the Fed had when it eased back last month," Mr. Fine added, noting that he thinks the Fed will most likely keep monetary policy unchanged at the end of January.
Mr. Fine said that the Fed might have to wait until March, when February data become available, to consider a move in monetary policy.
"There is also some question," he said, "as to the integrity of some of the upcoming economic releases, particularly the Consumer Price Index and retail sales reports for December, but also for a number of indicators in January as well," because the Government may be rushed to collect and crunch the numbers.
After January, the next meeting of the Fed's monetary policy committee will be on March 26.
Mr. Fine said that sales for December at chain stores were "slightly to the weak side" and that motor vehicle sales were "clearly stronger than anticipated," suggesting a moderate increase in retail sales for the month.
In futures trading, which affects the cash price of current issues being traded, the March bond contract dropped below a support price of 121 23/32 and near the close plunged to as low as 120 20/32, before settling at 120 21/32. However, since the longer-term trend remains bullish for the market, traders said, pullbacks continued to represent buying opportunities.
Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst with Thomson Research of Boston, said: "Bonds are entering into a short-term consolidation period during which bond prices could test 120 2/32 to 119 27/32. Don't mistake the short-term neutral to bearish price actions as a signal that bonds are peaking, or that the long-term bullish structure has been negated. However, do interpret the price changes as suggestive of a downturn that will give us an excellent buying opportunity in all maturities."
The Treasury sold $18.75 billion of new one-year bills yesterday at an average discount rate of 4.89 percent, down from 5.06 percent last month and the lowest in almost two years.
Dealers said the ratio of orders to the actual amount sold was healthy, with retail interest showing improvement. Traders said the strong demand for the securities during budget negotiations was an encouraging sign.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 95.056
Discounted Rate . . . 4.89%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.16%
High Price . . . 95.066
Discounted Rate . . . 4.88%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.15%
Low Price . . . 95.056
Discounted Rate . . . 4.89%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.16%
Accepted at low price . . . 50%
Total applied for . . . $57,783,927
Accepted . . . $18,893,552
Noncompetitive . . . $941,251
 
The one-year bills mature on Jan. 9, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, since September. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); MONETARY POLICY (84%); US DOLLAR (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); DEBT CEILING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (57%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



108 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Calls Pataki's Cuts Too Painful for New York

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani intensified his criticism of Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget today, telling state legislators that its deep cuts would create pain for New York City residents and fiscal problems for city government.
In testimony before a joint legislative budget committee, Mr. Giuliani said that the Governor's budget would provide the city as little as $150 million in savings through cuts to health and welfare programs, far less than the $955 million Mr. Pataki had projected and even less than estimates produced by the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone. 
 The Mayor, who says he needs $675 million in savings from the state to help balance next year's city budget, said that Mr. Pataki's spending plan could force the city to reduce already pared-back city services.
Noting that Mr. Pataki's budget calls for 25 percent reductions in some block grants for mental health and health care, Mr. Giuliani said, "At 25 percent, we are going to be faced with a choice of either hurting people or taking money out of other programs."
The comments, Mr. Giuliani's most detailed yet on the Pataki plan, contrasted vividly with his testimony before the same committee last year, when the Mayor not only endorsed many of Mr. Pataki's proposed budget cuts but also recommended that some of them be larger.
While infusing his testimony with praise for Mr. Pataki's overall goals to shrink government, rein in health-care spending and cut taxes, Mr. Giuliani, who, like Mr. Pataki is a Republican, expressed many of the same concerns about the Governor's plan that Democrats have.
He said the state was shortchanging the city on school aid, giving it 34 percent of state education spending even though the city has 37 percent of the state's students. He said Mr. Pataki's proposal to reduce cash grants to welfare recipients would "ravage" assistance to the truly needy.
And while generally supporting the Governor's proposal to create block grants that would cover many social programs, he said he was concerned that the plan would proceed too quickly and was being used to mask deep cuts to those programs.
City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat and frequent Giuliani rival, said of the Mayor's comments: "His spin is more complimentary to the Governor than mine, but we're essentially coming down in the same place. This is an important change. It is a less ideological view of the realities of governing."
Today's testimony seemed to open a new chapter in Mr. Giuliani's constantly evolving relationship with Mr. Pataki. That relationship hit a low point in 1994 when Mr. Giuliani endorsed Gov. Mario M. Cuomo over Mr. Pataki, but improved somewhat in 1995 when the Mayor supported Mr. Pataki's budget even as it cut spending for the city. Today, Mr. Giuliani, who is up for re-election in 1997, seemed to be searching for a middle ground from which he could applaud Mr. Pataki's philosophical positions while attacking the substance of his plans.
Mr. Giuliani said he changed his message this year because the city had already made deep reductions in social programs that had helped the state, which shares in the costs of those programs, to save money. Asking the city to make even deeper cuts in those programs would be unfair, he said.
And he suggested that sharp state budget cuts could enervate the city's economy. "It is important to understand that the city is an economic engine for both the state and the nation," he said.
Aides to Mr. Pataki said they had not heard many of Mr. Giuliani's concerns before today. They played down his criticisms, noting that he continued to praise the broad themes underlying Mr. Pataki's budget.
"Clearly he has the same goals we do, which is to reduce government spending and provide services at a lower cost," said Zenia Mucha, Mr. Pataki's director of communications. But she added, "This is not a situation where we have unlimited funds."
Other Republican state officials said that they thought Mr. Giuliani's comments today could damage his relations with the Governor. "The Governor won't be a happy camper," said one Republican official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Unlike Mr. Hevesi, who called today for a delay in a scheduled cut in state income taxes, Mr. Giuliani said he supported further tax reductions. Indeed, he called on the Legislature to allow the city to eliminate its 4 percent sales tax on clothing costing less than $500. Speaker Sheldon Silver of the Assembly has proposed a similar plan for the rest of the state.
Though the proposal could reduce city revenues by $300 million a year, Mr. Giuliani said the increase in retail trade caused by the tax cut would more than offset the loss.
Mr. Giuliani began his Albany trip by visiting the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and Mr. Silver, a Democrat of Manhattan. The Mayor and Mr. Silver clashed often last year and have barely spoken since February.
But today's meeting marked a continuing rapprochement between the two men, who appeared before reporters after their 10-minute session sitting side-by-side on a green leather couch in Mr. Silver's office.
In a signal that he may join forces with Assembly Democrats to fight many of Mr. Pataki's cuts, Mr. Giuliani said he would continue to meet with Mr. Silver on the budget for weeks to come.
Mr. Giuliani did not meet with Mr. Pataki, who was in New York City today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN SENATE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN SENATE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; WELFARE (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); EDUCATION FUNDING (88%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



109 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Rallies Against Yen, But Loses Ground to Mark

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The dollar continued its rally against the Japanese yen yesterday, briefly rising to levels last seen 21 months ago before falling back on word from Washington of the latest breakdown in negotiations over the Federal budget.
Despite the retreat, which took place in afternoon trading, the dollar nevertheless registered an advance against the yen. And, given the weakness of the Japanese economy and comparatively favorable conditions in the United States, some traders and analysts said the dollar could continue to strengthen against the yen for some time yet. 
 "Relatively low real interest rates in the world suggest you go to the country that has done the most amount of monetary policy easing, and has the least amount left to do," said Richard E. Witten, a partner at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
"Japan has more easing to do, as does Germany. The United States, by contrast, doesn't have as much to do. And the performance of American financial assets, which continue to do extremely well, is attracting capital."
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 105.30 yen, up from 104.87 late Wednesday, but well below the 106.50 yen level it reached earlier in the day. That rate was the highest for the dollar since March 24, 1994, when it reached 106.62 yen.
While the latest upswing in the dollar began as 1995 was drawing to a close and has continued into the New Year, its rise against the yen is merely a continuation of a move that began in June.
Currency traders and analysts began to feel better about the dollar's prospects at that time because of a decision by the Japanese Ministry of Finance to entice Japanese financial institutions to invest abroad, as well as the conclusion of a bilateral auto agreement that staved off a possible trade war between the United States and Japan.
At that point, the dollar was trading in the low 90's against the yen, well above the record low of 79.75 yen reached on April 19, but more than 12 percent under where it is now.
And the rally against the yen has not led to a corresponding surge against other major currencies like the German mark.
"The dollar has not clearly rallied against the mark, even though economic fundamentals in Germany suggest that it should," said David Buchen, a managing director in charge of North American foreign exchange operations at Citibank.
"With both Japan and Germany mired in stagnation and deflation, the markets generally expect the dollar to do well this year."
In fact, yesterday the dollar lost ground against the mark. It was quoted at 1.4430 marks late yesterday in New York, down from 1.4453 late Wednesday.
The dollar's ascendance, Mr. Witten said, "is mostly a Japan story."
"Money is very easy there, the economy is still very weak, their trade surplus is declining," he said. "All of those things suggest a further weakening."
To a certain extent, traders said, the dollar's recent spurt could be attributed to an anticipated budget agreement, a deal that for a while at least would address a problem that has been hampering the dollar on world currency markets for more than a decade.
"I think the dollar is shaking off its legendary problems of being inflation-prone and deficit-prone," Mr. Buchen said. "But the market needs to see the proof of the pudding. What we are getting instead is a comedy in Washington."
Still, even though they say a balanced budget agreement would be favorable, currency traders and analysts acknowledge that the political bickering about the budget deficit masks the real condition of the budget.
"Right now the budget deficit in the United States is the lowest in the industrialized world," said Ron Leven, J. P. Morgan's global currency strategist.
"The deficit is not an issue right now because we don't have a problem with it," Mr. Leven said. "Getting rid of the fiscal deficit is not a major factor for the economy."
Still, unlike Mr. Witten and Mr. Buchen, Mr. Leven said he did not expect much from the dollar during the first half of 1996.
Part of the reason for that, he said, is political.
"The Clinton Administration has no incentive to allow the dollar to get any stronger," against the yen, he said. "If the dollar moves higher still, U.S. competitiveness will start to be compromised, and one sector that is particularly sensitive to that is organized labor."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Strong Dollar" tracks yen to the dollar since the beginning of 1994. (Source: Datastream) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N DAVID BUCHEN (65%); RICHARD E WITTEN (65%); RON LEVEN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



110 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Results in December As Auto Sales Slip for Year

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Auto makers ended 1995 with some surprisingly good and some surprisingly bad sales, capping a year that on the whole failed to live up to the industry's high expectations.
The General Motors Corporation and the Chrysler Corporation both beat analysts' projections for December with solid sales gains over December 1994. The Ford Motor Company, however, posted disappointing sales, especially of its restyled Taurus. 
 Over all, Big Three vehicle sales dropped two-tenths of 1 percent in December, while sales for the year slipped 1.7 percent, reflecting an economy characterized by wary consumers.
For the full year, auto makers sold 15.1 million cars and trucks, compared with 15.4 million in 1994.
Passenger car sales for the year totaled 8.64 million, down nearly 4 percent from 1994, according to company reports. Light-truck sales totaled 6.13 million, up 1.2 percent, according to the Autodata Corporation, a consulting firm based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
According to the companies, General Motors' market share, not including sales of Saab cars, fell half of 1 percent, to 32.2 percent, in 1995, while Ford's market share, not indluding sales of Jaguar cars, rose four-tenths of 1 percent, to 25.5 percent, and Chrysler's market share was flat at 14.3 percent.
Consumer demand appears to be in the same doldrums experienced by retailers, who at Christmas found shoppers worried about high credit card bills and job security. And just as department stores slashed prices at year-end sales, auto makers offered big cash rebates on some cars.
"The last week of December was a great week," said Georges Daaboul, sales manager at Bud Davis Cadillac in Memphis, where last month buyers could get $2,000 off the price of two luxury models.
G.M.'s sales rose 2.6 percent in December compared with December 1994. G.M.'s car sales rose 1.1 percent, to 215,989, while sales of trucks rose 7.4 percent, to 181,617. The company's sales for the year fell 3.4 percent from 1994.
"We did very well on cars, considering the market shifted away from luxury cars," said G. Richard Wagoner Jr., president of G.M.'s North American operations.
Ford shocked analysts with a 9.2 percent drop in United States sales in December and further evidence that the introduction of its new Taurus is struggling. Taurus sales fell 35 percent in December from sales of the old Taurus in December 1994. It was the third consecutive monthly decline in Taurus sales since the redesigned car was introduced in September. Sales fell 16 percent in October and 27 percent in November from corresponding months in 1994.
"If they want to keep it the No. 1- selling car in America, they are going to have to come up with more inventive pricing," said Michael Schmall, director of automotive forecasting for J. D. Power & Associates.
Ford's car sales plunged 19.3 percent, to 125,890 in December, compared with December 1994. Truck sales rose 1.9 percent, to 144,573. For the year, Ford sales were down one-tenth of 1 percent.
Chrysler surprised industry followers with a 9.8 percent jump in United States sales in December. Analysts had been expecting a 6 percent increase.
Chrysler's truck sales, which include mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, were up 20.9 percent in December, to 122,468, aided by a record month for the Dodge Ram. Car sales totaled 55,335, down 8.7 percent from December 1994. For the year, Chrysler sold 2.16 million vehicles, down 1.5 percent from 1994.
Japanese auto makers also posted mixed results in December.
General Motors shares fell 62.5 cents yesterday, to $51.25, while Ford fell 25 cents, to $29.625, and Chrysler fell 75 cents, to $55.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in 1995" tracks market share of U.S. Car and truck sales from 1988 through 1995. Graph also compares number of cars, trucks, and total vehicles sold during 1994 and 1995. In addition, car and truck sales are compared among the big three U.S. auto makers during 1995. (Sources: Company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); SALES REBATES (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); 

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



111 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
Maintenance Workers on Strike
More than 30,000 maintenance workers at 1,000 large New York City office buildings went on strike after negotiations broke down over management's demand that new workers start at a far lower salary than current building workers. But building managers insisted the strike would not affect daily operations at office buildings. [Page A1.]
 
Office workers seemed fairly oblivious to the strike, but some worried about the long-term effects of life without janitors. [B4.]
 
A Firefighter Mourned
About 8,000 to 9,000 firefighters, in their crisp dress blues, joined mourners at Our Lady of the Snow Roman Catholic Church in Blue Point, L.I., for the funeral of Lieut. John M. Clancy, who died on Sunday in Queens when the floor of a burning house collapsed and he plunged into the flames. It was an obligation many had performed several times recently; Lieutenant Clancy was the ninth firefighter in two years to die in the line of duty. [A1.]
 
Red Hook in Standoff Over Plan
Less than a year ago, Red Hook's ambitious plan to remake itself was hailed as a paradigm of late-20th-century urban renewal. But a year later, the community plan is at the center of an angry standoff. Some business leaders say the plan would stifle economic growth; others in the neighborhood have accused them of narrow self-interest. [B1.]
 
A Little Less Risk in Walking
Pedestrians may finally be getting some respect from the Giuliani administration and from the City Council. NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B1.]
 
Mayor Warns of Deep Cuts
Mayor Giuliani intensified his criticism of Governor Pataki's proposed budget, telling state legislators at a hearing in Albany that its deep cuts will create pain for New York City residents and fiscal problems for city government. [B3.]
 
Water Main Rupture Puzzling
The 60-inch water main that broke in Astoria, Queens, on Tuesday night, flooding a residential neighborhood, had been put into service only last summer, city officials said. Its rupture continued to mystify officials, who say the pipe was originally installed 7 1/2 years ago. [B3.]
 
Study Reviews Health Plans
A yearlong study of a dozen leading health-maintenance organizations in the New York City area found that the quality and generosity of their health plans vary widely and that company representatives frequently give out wrong information over the phone, the city's Public Advocate, Mark Green, announced. [B4.]
 
REGION
 
Hospital Faulted in Some Cases
State health investigators said that a cluster of deaths and serious injuries that occurred after surgery at Long Island Jewish Medical Center last spring did not reflect system-wide problems at the hospital, but they cited the hospital for delivering substandard care in some cases. [A1.]
 
Challengers Fight Way to Ballot
Two Republican presidential candidates -- Steve Forbes and Patrick J. Buchanan -- said that they had gathered enough signatures to enter the March primary in New York against the front-runner, Senator Bob Dole. But Mr. Dole's supporters vowed to try to force the challengers off the ballot. [B1.]
 
Child Abuse Laws Proposed
In a plan to revamp Connecticut's child-protection system, Gov. John G. Rowland proposed legislation that would make it easier to remove children from troubled homes and put them up for adoption. The measure also would ease confidentiality requirements that have hampered agencies from sharing information about cases. [B1.]
 
Aide Files Harassment Suit
A senior legislative assistant to Chuck Haytaian, the Speaker of New Jersey's Assembly and chairman of the State Republican Party, filed a lawsuit against him, accusing Mr. Haytaian of making repeated, unwelcome sexual advances in his State Capitol office. [B4.]
 
Bribery Conviction Overturned
A Federal appeals court has overturned the 1993 bribery conviction of Richard Foley Jr., a five-term member of Connecticut's House of Representatives and the former chairman of the state's Republican Party. A jury had found him guilty of accepting $25,000 in bribes to influence fellow lawmakers. [B5.]
 
Arbitration Bill Is Voted Down
Despite an intensive, last-minute lobbying effort, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman failed to persuade the State Assembly to approve a bill she said would save cities and towns money by reining in salaries for police officers and firefighters. The measure, fiercely opposed by the state's powerful police and firefighter unions, would have given arbitrators more power in settling pay disputes. [B5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STRIKES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FIRES (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); RELIGION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (55%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



112 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Recessionary Feeling To Stores' Christmas
Retailers reported their worst December sales since the 1990-91 recession period. While they gave all sorts of reasons, the weakness suggested that the economy was likely to grow slowly in the months ahead.
The tidings were grim for specialty stores. Analysts said that the country may have more stores than its shoppers need and that many could well have to close. [Page A1.]
 
Hopes for Federal Workers
House Republican leaders abandoned the idea of using closed Federal offices as a lever to force President Clinton to agree to a seven-year balanced budget. But they were apparently unable to persuade their rank and file, who revolted at an evening caucus. Speaker Newt Gingrich canceled a scheduled news conference. [A1.]
 
Dollar Strengthens Against Yen
The dollar continued to rally against the yen, briefly rising to levels last seen 21 months ago. Later the dollar fell back in a move related to the budget talks. But some traders said the dollar could rise for some time yet. [D2.]
 
Adobe Shares Plunge
Adobe Systems reported a fourth-quarter loss and operating income well below expectations. Its stock tumbled $13.50, to $45. [D4.]
 
Stocks Fall; Technology Weak
The stock market was on a seesaw, influenced by budget talks in Washington. At one point when both sides called off talks, the Dow industrials tumbled 50 points, before ending down 20.23 points, at 5,173.84. Big Board volume was the fourth highest on record. Nasdaq stocks fell 16.44 points, to 1,029.82, as technology issues fell on profit warnings. [D6.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities plunged. The 30-year bond fell 1 5/32 of a point, to 111 22/32 ; its yield rose to 6.02 percent from 5.95 percent on Wednesday. [D16.]
 
Strong Results on Wall St.
Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers reported strong quarterly earnings, benefiting particularly from their healthy investment banking businesses. The results augur well for other Wall Street houses. [D16.]
 
Surprising Auto Sales
Detroit's auto makers ended 1995 with surprisingly strong sales. General Motors and Chrysler surpassed analysts' projections, but Ford had disappointing sales, especially of its restyled Taurus. [D4.]
 
General Motors said it would start to make electric cars this fall, even though analysts doubted that many would be sold. [A10.]
 
Higher Charges for Fast Phone Line
Two big phone companies in the West are asking for rate increases that would more than double the price of consumer-oriented digital telephone services, known as I.S.D.N. [D2.]
 
London Exchange Chief Ousted
The London Stock Exchange dismissed its chief executive after months of feuding with big securities firms over his plans to introduce a new form of share trading. [D5.]
 
AT&T Detours to the Web
AT&T is phasing out its Interchange on-line service a year after buying it for more than $50 million. Instead, the company will move its operations to the World Wide Web. [D6.]
 
Tobacco Class-Action Suit Approved
Flight attendants can mount a national class-action suit against tobacco companies, a Florida appeals court ruled. [A10.]
 
Masco Deal Falls Through
Masco's $1.1 billion sale of its home furnishings unit to Morgan Stanley fell through. Masco would not say whether Morgan Stanley found something that made it uncomfortable about the deal or the price. But it was apparently not a problem with the unit's financial performance. [D17.]
 
Disney Merger Advances
Shareholders of Walt Disney and Capital Cities/ABC approved their $19 billion merger. It is still subject to regulatory approval. [D5.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,173.84, down 20.23
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.02%, up 0.07
The Dollar -- 105.30 yen, up 0.43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (82%); ADB (FRA) (82%); GM (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICS (76%); BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (61%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



113 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW;
LEADERS IN HOUSE DROP G.O.P. PLAN ON U.S. WORKERS

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Weary of taking the blame for the continuing Government shutdown, House Republican leaders today abandoned their strategy of using closed Government offices as a lever to force President Clinton to agree to a seven-year balanced budget, but their rank and file revolted.
The proposal to put all Government workers back on the job, with pay until at least March 15, met a sometimes hostile reception in a Republican caucus tonight. When it ended, Speaker Newt Gingrich canceled a scheduled news conference to avoid speaking to reporters. 
 He and other leaders had worked hard all day to sell their plan to their often obstreperous freshmen, but apparently failed. After a meeting with Mr. Gingrich this afternoon, Representative David M. McIntosh of Indiana said flatly, "We will not reopen the Government." And tonight a second-term ally of his, Representative Ernest Jim Istook Jr. of Oklahoma, said, "They floated an idea, and it did not float well."
After tonight's meeting ended, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, chairman of the party caucus, told reporters: "There is no resolution. There are lots of proposals on the table. But, frankly, what we have decided is to take a couple of more days" to figure out what to do next.
The White House immediately took political advantage. Michael D. McCurry, the President's spokesman, said in a statement, "The repudiation of the House Republican leadership is most troubling to the President." He said, "A willful, extreme minority in the House Republican caucus is apparently holding common sense and the American people hostage."
The Republicans' desire for consensus has been required for the last year by their relatively narrow majority, and Mr. Gingrich has consistently pledged to the rank and file that he would not advance policies over the objections of any sizable group of Republicans.
The Republican leaders' view was that the partial Government shutdown had distracted attention from their prime issue, the balanced budget. "Somewhere along the way, we have gotten off message," Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, said tonight.
The leaders said they hoped that if steps could be taken to get the Government reopened and workers paid, they could send their members home for two weeks and begin a Republican election campaign at all levels, stressing the necessity of balancing the budget. They would not abandon negotiations with President Clinton, whom many junior members denounced tonight as untrustworthy. But they were not expecting them to succeed.
Many Government offices are shut because Congress has not passed -- or the President has vetoed -- legislation to pay for its operation this year. Until now, House Republicans have refused to consider stopgap legislation to keep things running, fearing that retreat would let President Clinton off the hook on the balanced budget issue. But polls show that the American people blame Republicans more than the President for the impasse.
White House officials said tonight that the Administration was likely to go along with the Republican plan to get workers back on the job.
Earlier, the Republicans had put off today's scheduled negotiations with President Clinton at the White House. But they said they wanted to meet on Friday. Tonight Senator Dole told the Senate, "By early next week, we should have an agreement." After a pause, he continued, "or disagreement."
Many Republicans were deeply pessimistic. Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi told the Senate, "It is becoming more obvious every day that the White House is not prepared to reach an agreement with the Congress to balance the budget." Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, chairman of the House Budget Committee, said, "I have seen no visible signs of progress."
Behind closed doors, Mr. Gingrich and Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, spoke even more sharply. One freshman at their meeting said, "Speaker Gingrich said he does not believe President Clinton is serious about balancing the budget." He said the Speaker told them Mr. Dole had agreed.
The plan the leaders were shopping to their followers had these elements: One bill would put the 280,000 furloughed Federal workers and the 480,000 working without pay back on the job, and pay them until March 15. But one Republican leader said they would come back on very stringent terms, with "no grants, no travel money, no toilet paper." Just how much of their regular jobs they would be able to do under those conditions was not clear.
The second element would be a bill to provide money for the rest of the fiscal year, a variety of grants for high-profile Government services now threatened -- from state unemployment offices to food for the elderly. "No member can afford to defend a shutdown of Meals on Wheels," one Republican strategist said.
Other programs likely to be covered by that bill would include child welfare programs, welfare for American Indians, railroad retirement payments, visitor services at the national parks, passport and visa services, veterans compensation, pension and education programs, and some functions of the government of the District of Columbia. The bill would also finance, but only until March 15, Aid to Families with Dependent Children and foster care and adoption assistance to states.
Finally, Republicans would seek to wrap all the appropriations bills still to be enacted into a single omnibus measure. Republican leaders said the bills would be adjusted to meet some of the objections in President Clinton's veto messages, but certainly not all of them.
That bill would end some Government programs Republicans have opposed, one highly placed Republican said, carrying the message to Federal workers: "Come March 15, some of you had better make plans, because you're not coming back, even if there is an agreement. Some of the Government is gone."
Democrats are unlikely to oppose either the return-to-work bill or the high-profile grants. Senator Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, said, "Anything is better than nothing, so we might as well take what we can."
The Republican leadership plan acknowledged that the current approach was not working politically, a view being pressed on them increasingly by restive moderates led by Representative Marge Roukema, an eight-term New Jersey Republican who said, "It's beginning to look like we can't run the Government."
But the issue was still embattled. Representative Steve Largent of Oklahoma, another leader of the 73 freshmen, said, "The only leverage we have left against the White House is the temporary shutdown." He added, "If we put these workers back to work, there never will be a balanced budget."
When the talks halted on Wednesday, Mr. Clinton and Republican leaders had been discussing a possible compromise on Republican tax cut proposals.
Public opinion polls have consistently shown more Americans blaming Republicans than Democrats for the budget impasse. A CBS News survey released today found that 44 percent of the public blamed Republicans more, while 33 percent blamed President Clinton more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (94%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (94%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



114 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

InternationalA3-9
 
SERBS FREE BOSNIAN CIVILIANS
Bosnian Serb officials backed down from a challenge to the Dayton peace accord and released 16 Bosnians who had been detained while traveling through Serb-controlled suburbs of Sarajevo. A1
 
President Clinton will visit Bosnia, perhaps as early as next week. A3
 
STILL A HERO TO SERBS
A month after his indictment as a war criminal by an international tribunal, a Yugoslav army colonel remains a hero in Serbia and Montenegro.A3
 
BRITAIN EXPELS SAUDI DISSIDENT
Britain has ordered a leading Saudi Arabian dissident to leave the country and defended its action in the face of criticism from human rights groups. A4
 
PERUVIAN JUSTICE CRITICIZED
As the secret military trial of a New York woman accused of terrorism draws to a close in Peru, human rights groups have sharply criticized the judicial system. A6
 
NEW FIND IN COLOMBIA CRASH
Tests in Colombia found alcohol in the remains of the captain of the American Airlines jet that crashed there, but it is not clear whether the alcohol came from drinking. A6
 
U.N. CONCERNS ABOUT BURUNDI
The United Nations Security Council, fearful of violence in Burundi, is struggling to find a way, short of sending in troops, to prevent widespread ethnic killings there. A8
 
PHYSICISTS CREATE ANTIMATTER
Physicists in Europe announced that they had created, for forty-billionths of a second, the first complete atoms of antimatter ever seen in nature. A9
 
Hamburg Journal: Radical squatters along the Hafenstrasse. A4
 
NationalA10-11, D18-20
 
GETTING WORKERS WORKING AGAIN
House Republican leaders, weary of being blamed for the Government shutdown, proposed sending all Federal workers back to work with pay until at least March 15. A1
 
ON THE JOB -- WITHOUT PAY
Federal workers who are still on the job -- though not getting paychecks -- are especially angry. D18
 
SHUTDOWN AFFECTING RESEARCH
The shutdown is beginning to slow the nation's scientific efforts and hamper operations of technical agencies that monitor things like fisheries and earthquakes. D19
 
RETAIL'S WOEFUL DECEMBER
The nation's merchants reported the worst December sales figures since the 1990-91 recession, citing everything from the weather to consumers' heavy debt load and failed women's fashions.A1
 
FIRST LADY CITED IN TRAVEL MEMO
A memorandum by a former Presidential aide depicted Hillary Clinton as having the central role in the ouster of workers in the White House travel office in 1993. A1
 
CHARGES IN STOLEN TREASURE CASE
The brother and sister of an Army lieutenant who stole treasures from a German cave at the end of World War II were indicted on Federal charges of illegally trafficking in the artifacts. A10
 
FLIGHT ATTENDANTS VS. TOBACCO
A Florida court ruled that flight attendants could mount a national class-action lawsuit against leading tobacco companies. A10
 
SHIFT ON PLUTONIUM POLICY
The United States, which has stopped recovering plutonium from spent nuclear reactor fuel and urged other nations to do so, is about to resume the practice. A11
 
VETERANS' GULF MALADIES
Soldiers who served in the Persian Gulf war do not appear to have any new types of illness, but medical studies cannot rule out mild or rare illnesses associated with gulf service, experts said. D19
 
BACTERIA AND CYSTIC FIBROSIS
People with cystic fibrosis may be susceptible to serious lung infections because their cells cannot ingest disease organisms. D19
 
Metro DigestB3
 
BUILDING WORKERS GO ON STRIKE
More than 30,000 maintenance workers at 1,000 large New York City office buildings went on strike yesterday after negotiations broke down over management's demand that new workers start at a lower salary than current workers. A1
 
REPORT ON DEATHS AT HOSPITAL
State health investigators said a cluster of deaths and serious injuries that occurred after surgery at Long Island Jewish Medical Center last spring did not reflect systemwide problems at the hospital, but they cited the hospital for substandard care in some cases. A1
 
MOURNING A FIREIGHTER
Attending a funeral for one of their fallen colleagues, firefighters shared a sense of their own vulnerability in the dangerous line of work they had chosen. A1
 
Business DigestD1
 
WeekendC1-28
2 artists as scavengers. C1
"Play Ball!" C1
The Grammy nominees. C3
Bryant Gumbel to leave "Today." D26
For Children C12
Theater: "The Universe." C1
On Stage, and Off C2
Film: "Roujin-Z." C8
"Delta of Venus." C8
Dance: Irene Hultman's troupe. C3
Restaurants B6
Art: "The Material Imagination." C18
American crafts of 20th century. C25
Rudy Burckhardt's photographs. C23
Inside Art C26
Art in Review C21
Books: "Schliemann of Troy." C28
Television: Home Video D26
"Investigative Reports." D26
 
SportsB8-14
Baseball: Rogers is glad to be a Yankee. B13
Basketball: Knicks beat Nets. B9
Column: Araton on Knicks B9
Football: Shula resigning as coach of Dolphins. B9
Reeves may not be back after all. B9
Golf: Firsts of '96. B13
Hockey: To the N.H.L. via Nigeria and Canada. B11
Devils savor 1-0 victory over Colorado. B11
Horse Racing: Notebook B13
 
ObituariesD21-22
 
Editorials/Op-EdA12-13
Editorials
First-class freeloaders.
Mr. Yeltsin's dangerous choice.
Bad tidings for the hungry.
Letters
A. M. Rosenthal: Stay alive another year.
Bob Herbert: Children -- Giuliani's "priority."
Anthony Lewis: Anatomy of disaster.
Charles Siebert: At the mercy of our genes.
 
Neediest CasesB2
 
ChronicleB2CrosswordC25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); BURUNDI (92%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); BURUNDI (92%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARMIES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PHYSICS (87%); WAR CRIMES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); MILITARY COURTS (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FISHERIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TERRORISM (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); AIRLINES (67%); RETAILERS (65%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (65%); SALES FIGURES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



115 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Call Sales in December Worst Since '90-'91 Recession

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
In the culmination of a dismal year for retailers that may well lead to a further industry shakeout in the next few months, the nation's merchants reported the worst December sales figures yesterday since the 1990-91 recession.
Retailers cited all sorts of reasons for poor sales, half-empty stores and indifferent shoppers, and the overall weakness among consumers suggested that the economy was likely to grow at best only slowly in the months ahead. 
 The special circumstances ranged from women's fashions that failed to catch fire to warm weather in November that hurt sales of heavy clothing to snowstorms in December that kept many shoppers at home. And consumers, after piling up mountains of debt, started to retrench, resisting practically everything not on sale at deep discounts.
Apart from the recession at the beginning of the decade, it was the worst December for retailers in recent memory. And with the economy still growing, it made for grim tidings for many retailers, particularly those selling specialty goods, who must now face the fact that America may simply have many more stores than buyers need.
"The number of stores has expanded faster than consumer demand," said Carl Steidtmann, an economist at Management Horizons in Columbus, Ohio, a unit of the accounting firm Price Waterhouse.
According to the Goldman, Sachs same-store sales index, which compares stores open at least a year, retail sales were up only 2 percent in December, compared with the same month a year earlier. Sales were up 5.4 percent in December 1994 and 5.7 percent for December 1993. The only worse year since the investment firm began compiling figures in the late 1980's was 1990, when same-store sales eked out a gain of nine-tenths of a percent.
Same-store sales, generally considered to be the best example of a retailer's condition, were weak in almost all sectors. J. C. Penney reported that same-store sales fell 4.2 percent, and Dayton Hudson, which owns the Target chain of discount stores as well as other more upscale chains, rose just 3 percent. Among off-price and discount merchants, Filene's Basement was down 3 percent, Kmart was up 5.5 percent with heavy discounting, and even the once-invincible Wal-Mart Stores -- the nation's largest retailer -- barely squeaked in a gain of 1.1 percent at its stores. Among consumer electronics chains, which were the hottest sector the last two to three holiday seasons, Tandy same-store sales rose just 2 percent and Best Buy gained 3 percent.
"This all reflects factors that are not going away," said Jeffrey M. Feiner, vice president of retail research at Salomon Brothers.
The consequence, analysts said, is almost certainly a new round of store closings. Those most unlikely to survive to 1997, they said, include some regional discounters and a number of apparel merchants.
"Christmas is just an expansion of what has been going on all year," Richard N. Baum, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs, said. With many retailers now expected to post sharply lower profits or outright losses, those unable to generate enough cash in the months ahead, he said, "will be subject to consolidations or face the specter of bankruptcy."
A few winners emerged from the general carnage. Sears, Roebuck & Company surprised even the most bullish analysts with a rise of 6.8 percent among stores open at least a year and Pier 1 Imports chalked up one of the few double-digit increases with a 16.1 percent gain. Gap Inc. sailed in with a rise of 6 percent.
"The Gap was successful because they focused right on fashion," said Barry Bryant, the senior director of equity research at Rodman & Renshaw. "At Sears, they had an ad campaign that everyone seemed to be singing to themselves, the quality was there and the fashion worked."
In contrast to retailers catering to the middle class, luxury merchants danced through the season, showing strong sales from early November all the way through the last weekend. Tiffany & Company, for instance, reported a same-store gain of 13 percent. At Sak's Fifth Avenue, sales of jewelry and cosmetics soared.
By the end of the season last weekend, the most successful stores looked like apartments that had played host to good parties: everything was a bit of a wreck and the shelves were picked clean. At Barneys New York, for example, women were knuckle to knuckle rummaging through the remains on a decimated rack of pants.
With few exceptions, those who sold Christmas gifts did so at their own expense this season, and profit margins suffered. Retailers marked down prices on sweater sets, televisions, dolls and skates almost before people had finished cleaning up their Thanksgiving turkey. The discounting continued into the new year.
There are many in the industry who argue that Christmas is no longer the spur to shoppers it once was.
"You've got a lot of retailers selling the same goods to consumers," Mr. Steidtmann, the economist, said. "And the only way they have to distinguish themselves is through price. This was a very promotional Christmas where the balance of power was with the consumer."
Indeed, those merchants with a specific focus or clever merchandising were the only ones to register good numbers. The Sunglass Hut, for instance, increased same-store sales by 10.3 percent. West Marine, a San Francisco seller of boat accessories and apparel, reported a rise in same-store sales of 8.8 percent.
Those who deal in goods enjoyed by the wealthiest and largest demographic group also had happy holidays. Middle-aged baby boomers, who now seem to have all the clothing they need, have become obsessed with making their homes cute. Pier 1 and Bed Bath and Beyond took advantage of that trend. "Pier 1 had higher-margin merchandise and was not very promotional," said Walter Loeb, a retail consultant. "The customer was interested in home merchandise."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retailers' Sales in December" tracks year-to-year changes in the Goldman Sachs index of department stores, based on monthly same-store sales, from September 1994 through December 1995. Graph also lists sales results of major chains for the four weeks ended Dec. 30, and compares them with last year's results. (Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO TARGET CORP (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; HOLIDAY TRADE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT RETAIL SALES (93%); RETAILERS (93%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (70%); WEATHER (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



116 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Egyptians Get a New Premier And Hopes for the Economy

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Jan. 4

 BODY:
A new Prime Minister and Cabinet were sworn in today in a shuffle that has raised hopes that Egypt will speed efforts to revitalize its stagnant economy.
The new Prime Minister, Kamal al-Ganzoury, is an American-educated economist who is regarded as somewhat more likely to embrace a free market than his predecessor, Atef Sedki, who held the office for nine years. 
 With public discontent still high after parliamentary elections that were marred by violence and accusations of fraud, President Hosni Mubarak's principal goal in installing Mr. Ganzoury may have been to demonstrate that he and his governing party were not averse to change, diplomats and experts said.
As Egypt begins to grapple with the certainty that the $2.3 billion it receives each year in American economic assistance will be reduced, Mr. Ganzoury and his team are also being seen as the force that could help make the country more attractive to foreign investors.
After 16 years in power, Mr. Mubarak himself said earlier this week that he had ordered the shakeup in an attempt "to change blood and put more energy" at his Government's top ranks. And today, Mr. Ganzoury struck a progressive tone after taking the oath of office, telling reporters that his goal would be to "open the door to foreign investment."
Until now, Egypt has been slow to dismantle its enormous state-run corporations and a monolithic civil service. With a high poverty rate already helping to build support for Islamic militants, the diplomats and experts cautioned that the fear of adding to social discontent means that rapid change remains unlikely.
At a time when the United States and international financial organizations are pressing Egypt to privatize companies and encourage foreign investment, a senior Western diplomat said he regarded the shakeup as "a sign that President Mubarak is really committed to stepping up the pace of economic reform."
Under Mr. Mubarak, the authority of Egypt's prime minister has been limited mostly to economic matters, and it was only in that sphere that the new Cabinet reflects major changes. The Government's three most powerful ministers -- for foreign affairs, defense and the interior -- remained in their posts.
Along with fresh faces at the ministries of finance and planning, the new Cabinet includes a new Economy Minister, Nawal al-Tatawi, the first woman to hold the job. She is an American-educated banker with experience at the United Nations and the World Bank.
Because Mr. Ganzoury, who is 62 years old, has been Deputy Prime Minister since 1987, some analysts dismissed the prospect that he would bring anything new to the Cabinet table.
"Both the new Prime Minister and the old one are the same," said Abdel Monem Saeed, deputy director of the Al Ahram Institute for Strategic Studies here. "Both are cautious. Both are firm believers in gradual change. They fear adventures and drastic measures."
But as Egypt prepares to resume discussions later this month with the International Monetary Fund, most analysts here said they expected that Mr. Ganzoury would at least bring new energy to the quest for an economic overhaul plan that could win the organization's approval.
Such an agreement would clear the way for Egypt's creditors to waive a final tranche of debts worth $4 billion. But Egypt and the I.M.F. must first resolve longstanding differences over the country's reluctance to move more swiftly toward economic reforms.
Egypt announced last month that the annual rate of inflation here had dropped to 4.9 percent, a 32-year low. But while the population is growing at a rapid rate, economic growth is still hovering around zero.
American officials here have been blunt in warning that improvement will not come until Egypt can persuade foreign investors that it is truly committed to the free market. Vice President Al Gore is expected to pay a visit here later this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT; EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); TRENDS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIGION (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); POVERTY RATES (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: GANZOURY, KAMAL AL- (PRIME MIN); JEHL, DOUGLAS HOSNI MUBARAK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



117 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: As Russian Vote Nears, U.S. Fears for Fate of Reform

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Senior Administration officials, once invariably chipper about President Boris N. Yeltsin, are taking a markedly more shaded and wary tone about him these days.
After the strong Communist showing in Russia's parliamentary elections last month and Mr. Yeltsin's second episode of heart disease, American officials are expressing considerable concern about the presidential election scheduled for June and the chance that pro-reform candidates will fail to unite behind a single candidate. 
The Bush Administration was criticized for sticking with Mikhail S. Gorbachev too long as the last Soviet President. Officials in the Clinton Administration do not want to make the same mistake with Mr. Yeltsin, who has been politically weakened by more than four years of social upheaval and an unpopular simmering war in Chechnya.
At the same time, they do not want to further damage, undermine or offend Mr. Yeltsin, who may yet turn out to be the strongest pro-reform presidential candidate, and who just returned to work after two months' convalescence.
The presidency dominates Russian political life, and the victory of a Communist or ultranationalist in June would send Russia on a very different path and deeply discomfit President Clinton in an election year. American officials are particularly worried that the squabbles of Russia's pro-reform politicians will undermine their chances.
Mr. Yeltsin perceives his historical role as an anti-Communist. In December, however, capitalizing on a residual national organization and voter unhappiness with the pain of social change, the Communists won 22.3 percent of the party vote and nearly 35 percent of the seats at stake in the lower house of Parliament.
That result is likely to push Mr. Yeltsin to run again, officials say, despite his frailties and the opposition of his wife, Naina. Mr. Yeltsin says he will announce his plans in February.
While American officials say they do not doubt Mr. Yeltsin's commitment to democracy and economic reform, they see him as politically damaged and physically weakened, and no longer as a figure that all reformers can easily support.
The question is whether Mr. Yeltsin runs or not, and then if he does, whether he remains healthy and has a chance of winning, the officials say. They fear that if Mr. Yeltsin does seek re-election, he will keep Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin from running, and then perform badly or suffer another heart attack, while younger pro-reform candidates like Grigory A. Yavlinsky do not back him, splitting the vote.
If no candidate wins over 50 percent of the vote in the first round (as Mr. Yeltsin did in 1991), there is a run-off between the two top finishers.
"The real worry is that Yeltsin doesn't make the run-off and stops other liberals from making it," a senior official said. "The nightmare scenario is a run-off between two openly anti-reform candidates."
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, speaking at a year-end news conference, said the elections, with their high turnout of some 65 percent, showed that "democracy has taken strong root" in Russia, but also revealed the stresses of change.
The United States intended "to continue to support economic and political reforms and reformers," Mr. Christopher said. But then in pointed remarks that made some of his aides uneasy, he urged Russia's pro-reform politicians to "put to one side their differences and come together to find a strong candidate" for the presidential election in June.
The Americans are doing a lot of thinking about Mr. Yavlinsky, 43. He was the only liberal whose party, Yabloko, received more than 5 percent of the popular vote. But Yabloko received only 6.9 percent, and Mr. Yavlinsky, who is young, brash and whose mother is Jewish in a country with a history of anti-Semitism, may be too thin a reed on which to build a pro-reform coalition.
Some American officials wondered whether Mr. Yavlinsky might in the end support a Yeltsin candidacy, by itself an indication of their quiet distress. Mr. Yavlinsky has made it as clear as he can that he wants to supplant Mr. Yeltsin.
American officials are relatively sanguine about how the new legislature, elected for four years, will behave over the next six months, however, when all parties want to appear "presidential." The officials point out that the bloc of Communists and nationalists is no larger than in the last Duma, the lower house of Parliament, though the Communists will be more cohesive than the ultranationalists.
Members elected as independents make up the second-largest bloc, followed by Mr. Chernomyrdin's party, Our Home Is Russia, and American officials expect both groups to join with Mr. Yavlinsky's 45 members and the 15 or 20 other liberals on crucial votes.
"No one in Washington is going to try to tell Yeltsin what to do," one senior official said. "He and Chernomyrdin are far better judges of Russia's political reality than any outsider. But we must be clear about what we stand for in a positive way. It's up to the Russian people and polity to decide whether to participate in what's on offer in the outside world, or to follow a path that will only isolate them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



118 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE WORKERS;
Added Bite For Many On the Job

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Phil Glover was beside himself in anger and frustration.
Unlike 280,000 Federal Government employees denied work and pay by the budget impasse, Mr. Glover is among 480,000 employees deemed essential -- and is thus working without pay. He is a prison guard in Loretto, Pa., helping supervise as many as 900 inmates. 
 "This is crazy," Mr. Glover said today, fulminating over the slow pace of negotiations between Congress and the White House that has kept Government offices closed a 20th day and put thousands of Government workers in financial peril.
"Why should we have urine and feces thrown at us for no pay," he asked. "It's ridiculous what's going on. I'll tell you what, we have maybe 50 Republicans and 50 Democrats in our union, but it's starting to get to where it doesn't matter what you are. We're ticked off. It's as simple as that."
For most Government employees, working or not, the financial crunch has begun in earnest. Their last paycheck, on Tuesday, covered the two-week period in which the shutdown began, included half the usual pay but the full two weeks of deductions. Dr. Lawrence Flesh, chief executive of the Stratton Veterans Administration Medical Center in Albany, N.Y., said that one employee had received a check for $9 and that the hospital had recently set up a food bank for workers running out of money.
With bills due for mortgage, rent, gas, electricity and school tuition, thousands of Government workers around the country have begun asking creditors for more time and lending institutions for loans. Unions like the American Federation of Government Employees and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees have set up loan programs as well as telephone hot lines to answer questions about the impasse and advise members how to solve financial problems.
But the angst of financial insecurity is slightly different among the so-called excepted workers compared with those on furlough, who are concerned about whether to believe budget negotiators when they say all Government employees will be paid retroactively once an agreement is reached.
While excepted workers have the same worry, many are also stirred by a clash between their moral obligation to work and outrage over a situation in which some people are forced to work and others are forced to stay home -- with the promise that all of them will be paid.
'It's unfair," said Aleta Hicks, a secretary at the Justice Department and a single mother. "To me, it's a higher class of slavery. They are not physically preventing me from going home. But if I choose to, I risk repercussions later on, a reprimand, a warning, even loss of my job. I don't want to go through that. That's only more stress."
Ms. Hicks, a mother of a 2-year-old daughter who makes about $25,000 a year, said her landlord had agreed to accept half the rent for January.
"But that was my whole check," she said of the amount she received this week. "I have nothing left over for phone, utilities and food. I have to rely on family and friends, but they're going through the same situation. I know the landlord said he'd be lenient this time. But if this thing goes on any further, my next check will be zero, and what's he going to do the next time?"
Among all Federal agencies, the Justice Department has the highest percentage of its employees working, more than 87 percent of 98,000 people. For some, like Eileen Sheehan, an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, her anger over "ego-driven" budget negotiators is tempered by civic pride.
"I'm one of the more idealistic people here," she said. "For me, it's less the finances than the moral obligation. I prosecute some of the most violent people in society. Just because Congress cannot reach consensus on how to proceed with a budget doesn't mean that that I don't show up and we let the bad guys out of jail.
"We all feel helpless and unappreciated, like children caught in a bad divorce. But I've dedicated my life to public service, and I feel very strongly about that."
But Ms. Sheehan said her fortitude was bolstered to some degree by savings, the $845 she receives in rent from two roommates and knowledge that it would take a bank quite some time, presumably longer than the life of the current budget impasse, to foreclose on her house if she missed a mortgage payment or two.
"To me," she said, "the mortgage industry cannot take adverse actions on 150,000 people who can't make mortgage payments. You're not going to have that many foreclosures. But this could do damage to my credit rating."
Other Government workers on the job were far less sanguine about the impact of the impasse. Mr. Glover said his family cut back on Christmas dinner and declined to visit relatives to save money on gas. He also said he and his wife had begun snapping at each other.
Ms. Hicks said she did not know whether to buy a half-dozen eggs for now or a buy a dozen to save some for the future.
William Thompson, who processes tax bills, said he did not expect his financial crunch to hit for another week. But he said he had found that his creditors beyond the Washington Beltway were far less sympathetic to those living here.
"The electric company, the gas company, they're very understanding," he said. "My mortgage holder is in Indiana. They're less sensitive to what's happening in Washington."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aleta Hicks a Justice Department secretary, worked yesterday during lunch with Stu Smith and Kim Wardensky, at Local 2830 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Who's Working, Who's At Home"
 About 285,000, or nearly 60 percent, of the 476,000 Government workers in agencies and programs affected by the budget impasse have been furloughed, but the effect has varied. Chart shows some examples of these variations by comparing furloughs at selected departments. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES BUDGETS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COUNTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TUITION FEES (69%); VETERANS (65%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (65%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (64%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (51%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL PHIL GLOVER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



119 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: TV WEEKEND;
Off Information Highway, A Busy Red-Light District

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
You can hit the hot spots on the information superhighway tomorrow night, when "Wired for Sex" provides a peek at how some of the oldest human urges are being serviced -- well, virtually serviced -- by the latest in electronic stimulators.
There are relatively conventional innovations like classified ads for seekers of romance, be they couples who conduct keyboard courtships in hopes of developing more tangible connections, prostitutes exhibiting their wares or folks seeking congenial company in a bondage-and-discipline data bank. A police officer tells of tracking down people who use computer games to inveigle youngsters into other sorts of games. 
 The anonymity of Internet communication seems to be aphrodisiac. A man named Steve tells of achieving arousal in his own little room by pretending to be a woman named Rose and engaging in computer communications with (presumably) another man somewhere out there, who seems to have been similarly excited. Bill Kurtis, the evening's guide, calls it "making out in cyberspace."
The highlights, or lowlights, of the hour are glimpses of soft-core software, not much different from what in primitive times were called dirty pictures. For $100 a year, one businessman says, his customers "get to see something they don't see every day." A wag describes S & M enthusiasts, seen here doing a little lethargic flogging for the camera, as the "digitally humiliated." More advanced and expensive interactive games give players the power to order fleshy and amenable young women on the screen to remove this or that article, assume this or that position and do this or that. One CD-ROM peddler announces, "Computers and sex are a perfect marriage."
Efforts are being made to contain the high-tech pornucopia, but as Mr. Kurtis observes, the stuff flows easily across national borders, and in the United States its merchants enjoy some First Amendment protections. This picture of the great new information superhighway, celebrated as carrying us into vast vistas of knowledge, being reduced to a red-light district may not be heartening. But virtual fantasy has a bright side: it's absolutely safe sex.

Dateline
 Drug Trials
 NBC, tonight at 9
 (Channel 4 in New York)
Tonight's edition of "Dateline" follows three people who were selected in 1993 to participate in an experimental treatment for AIDS. It's an affecting report, though similar to many others that keep making the point that AIDS patients -- like the two men and the woman chosen tonight -- do not belong to a different species. (See "Positive: Life With H.I.V.," on Channel 13, Sunday at 10:30 P.M.)
The new treatment, a drug combination known as Drug 241, evidently increases the number of the body's T cells, which help the immune system resist infection. The "Dateline" report records the ups and downs of both T cells and emotions during the lengthy tests at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. The drug still raises hopes, but "Drug Trials" is careful not to raise them too high.

A Citizens' State of the Union
 PBS, tonight at 9
 (Channel 13 in New York)
This earnest 90-minute program is the first in a five-part series, "Citizens '96," devoted to the concerns of Americans in this election year. Tonight, people in Idaho, Texas, North Carolina, California and Washington State talk, unsurprisingly, about urban violence, low-paying jobs and economic insecurity.
Next month, on the eve of the Iowa caucuses, a town meeting in Des Moines attended by Presidential candidates will be carried live. Later in February, New Hampshirites will take over the screen, heralding their state's primary.

INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS
Wired for Sex
A&E, tomorrow night at 9

Written by Bill Cameron and Laine Drewery; produced and directed by Laine Drewery; Mark Starowicz, co-producer; Jennifer Cowan, associate producer; Murray Green, editor. A production of Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in association with A&E. Bill Kurtis, host, narrator and executive producer for "Investigative Reports." Michael Cascio, executive producer for A&E.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS (TV PROGRAM); DATELINE (TV PROGRAM); CITIZENS' STATE OF THE UNION, A (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO INC (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); AIDS & HIV (86%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (85%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (79%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); WOMEN (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL KURTIS (73%); LAINE DREWERY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



120 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 26; Column 3; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Old Masters for Sale
Next week, Sotheby's and Christie's will hold the biggest Old Masters painting sales either auction house has seen in five years. Simultaneously, many Manhattan dealers in Old Masters are mounting special exhibitions timed to the New York sales. 
 From the look of things, it seems business is booming. Among the painting fields, Old Masters provide one of the steadier markets; the work is less vulnerable to the ups and downs of, say, contemporary art, where trends and fashions, not to mention the economy, dictate whether prices rise or fall.
"While the market has risen somewhat over the past year," said Nicholas Hall, president of the Colnaghi gallery in New York, "it is still not at a temperature which would account for the quantity of works coming on the market. It defies a simple explanation."
In the hopes of snagging collectors who come to New York for the auctions, dealers like Mr. Hall have planned impressive exhibitions. While Colnaghi is mounting a tightly focused show, "The French Portrait: 1550-1850," most galleries are showing selections of their recent acquisitions. Jack Kilgore's gallery on East 71st Street, for example, is to exhibit works that he acquired with Emmanuel Moatti, a Paris dealer. "Auctions have a sense of immediacy, and so we have to create our own sense of immediacy and excitement in the form of exhibitions in order to compete," Mr. Kilgore said.
While dealers still assert that galleries are the best place to sell art, there's an interesting contradiction at work. Galleries are not the only place dealers are offering their paintings this season. Some of the finest works for sale at Sotheby's and Christie's next week are being sold by dealers, which might suggest that dealers believe the auction room is a better venue than their own galleries.
On the cover of Sotheby's catalogue is Joachim Wtewael's "Adoration of the Shepherds" (1600-1605), which is being sold by the dealer Richard Feigen. The Mannerist painting has hung in his bedroom since he bought it from Benedict Nicolson, the London art historian, in 1974. Sotheby's has put a hefty $2.4 million to $2.8 million estimate on the painting. Christie's is also selling an important painting from a New York dealer: Il Bacchiacca's "Lady With a Cat" (1525-1530), which is owned by Martin Zimet of French & Company and carries an estimate of $400,000 to $600,000. Mr. Feigen declined to say why he chose to sell a painting from his private collection at auction. Mr. Zimet said only that his painting no longer fitted in with the Dutch, Spanish and French paintings he sells at French & Company.
Dealers and collectors agree that New York is the place to sell paintings, rather than London, long the traditional center of the Old Masters market, because the United States is now where the money is. But the number of works up for sale next week is so large that many question whether the market can absorb them.
"It's hard to tell," said Ian Kennedy, the president of the Simon Dickinson New York gallery. "I see this as a good opportunity to find some things at reasonable prices."
 
 
 
One Popular Catalogue
 Have you called Sotheby's main number in Manhattan lately?
A recording comes on: "Thank you for calling Sotheby's. If you are calling to order a catalogue for the estate of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, please press 1 now. For all other inquiries, please press 2 now."
When the auction house announced last month that it would sell Mrs. Onassis's personal property this spring in Manhattan, Sotheby's officials said that no fancy marketing or special advertising would be used. They also said that none of the thousands of objects would travel to Europe or Asia, which is how Sotheby's and Christie's normally trumpet their plum offerings. (To some, Sotheby's restraint seemed admirable; but one wonders how many Europeans or Asians would in fact be interested in owning John F. Kennedy Jr.'s high chair or President John F. Kennedy's golf clubs.)
Sotheby's hired Trase-Miller Teleservices, a Chicago-based company that handled ticket sales for the super-successful Monet retrospective last year at the Art Institute of Chicago. And this explains the recording.
Calls to Sotheby's main number have been routed to Trase-Miller because the auction house's switchboard was inundated by people wanting the catalogue. Calls about the Onassis sale are handled by Trase-Miller; others automatically bounce back to New York.
Several hundred catalogues have been ordered by phone every day since the sale was announced on Dec. 15. So far, 3,950 have been sold. The price is $45 for the soft-cover version or $90 for the hardback. But that's just the beginning. A toll-free number for catalogue orders (800-601-6155) has been set up. Sotheby's plans to advertise the number in several newspapers around the country next week.
The all-color catalogue has 700 illustrations, including many pictures of Mrs. Onassis's Fifth Avenue apartment, and is itself considered a collector's item. But buying one is also the only way anyone can hope to view the contents of the sale in person. Admission to the four-day viewing, which begins April 19, will be by ticket only. Sotheby's estimates it can handle 30,000 people, to be drawn by computer from among those who buy the catalogue.
Proceeds from the catalogue's sales are to go to the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation in Boston.
 
 
 
More Mondrian
 People worried about missing the Museum of Modern Art's popular Mondrian retrospective, originally scheduled to close on Jan. 23, have been granted a reprieve. The show has been extended a week, through Jan. 30.
If the Modern had its way, the show would run even longer. But some of the Mondrians will be moving uptown for "Abstraction in the 20th Century: Total Risk, Freedom, Discipline" which is to open at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum on Feb. 9.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from "The Temptation of St. Anthony," by Teniers the Younger, at Jack Kilgore. (Jack Kilgore & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); NEW YORK (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) NEW YORK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: ART; AUCTIONS; CATALOGUES; WILLS AND ESTATES AUCTIONS (92%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); HISTORY (74%); ART HISTORY (73%); WILLS (59%); PRICE INCREASES (55%); 

PERSON: MONDRIAN, PIET (1872-1944); VOGEL, CAROL; ONASSIS, JACQUELINE KENNEDY (1929-94) JACQUELINE KENNEDY ONASSIS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



121 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 53 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Panel Backs Measure on Jobs

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Two bills backed by the Whitman administration that would offer companies incentives to create new jobs in New Jersey cleared the Assembly Budget Committee yesterday. One bill would give grants to businesses that create new jobs; the other would enable companies to recover up to half of their relocation costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ASSEMBLY BUDGET COMMITTEE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSEMBLY BUDGET COMMITTEE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION JOB CREATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); BUDGETS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



122 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Standoff Over Red Hook Renewal;
Businesses Fear a Plan to Remake a Neighborhood

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
Less than a year ago, Red Hook's ambitious plan to remake itself was hailed as a paradigm of late-20th-century urban renewal. City officials, residents and politicians spoke enthusiastically of the plan's scope and realism, its lack of ideology and its abundance of consensus.
The plan was a blueprint laid out by and for the people of that troubled section of Brooklyn. It envisioned hundreds of units of new housing, a new 500-student high school and a revitalized waterfront, an enterprise with the potential for returning Red Hook to the working-class maritime village it had been decades ago. 
 "The process behind the plan and the product itself should be a model for how neighborhoods plan for themselves in the future," Joseph Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, said of the plan last January.
But a year later, what had been widely trumpeted as the most sophisticated and practical effort at city planning since the 1989 revision of the City Charter gave community boards the authority to map their own futures is at the center of an angry standoff. Some of Red Hook's business leaders say the plan would stifle economic growth; others in the neighborhood have accused them of narrow self-interest. The plan has not even been approved by the Planning Commission.
As a result, the Red Hook plan might well have become an example of something else: just how hard it is to get anything done in the city, regardless of the quality of intentions or inspiration.
Mr. Rose said: "What this experience has demonstrated is what we have always known: planning is not easy. It's a process that can be controversial. There can be the kind of personal antagonisms we in the public sector experience all the time. The process requires patience. People across the city would do well to learn from this example."
Some representatives of businesses in Red Hook have asserted that they were excluded from the process and that the plan endangers the neighborhood's economic future. Other people have charged that avarice caused the opponents to retreat from their initial support. Residents of the public housing projects that dominate much of Red Hook have asserted that the Planning Commission does not want to see grass-roots urban renewal succeed.
"I think everyone assumed realistically that there would be problems implementing all of the aspects of the plan," said Edward Bautista, a lawyer who has advised the residents of the Red Hook Houses. "But never in my wildest imagination did I think the process itself would become so fragile."
The echoes of those words reverberate grimly for many in Red Hook, people with resignation and cynicism soaked into their consciousness by years of economic neglect, environmental abuse and epic failures at urban renewal.
"The hopes of the entire community were manifest in that plan," said John McGettrick, chairman of the Red Hook Civic Association, who remains adamant that the plan go forward.
The crux of the dispute is whether the 88-page proposal, full of charts and graphs, adequately reflects the concerns of industry.
Bette Stolz, the head of the South Brooklyn Local Development Corporation, has said that business people were repeatedly rebuffed in their attempts to help create the plan. Ms. Stolz, who made her complaints at a Planning Commission hearing last July, said business representatives were not allowed on the committee that devised the plan, and that their lack of influence is reflected in what she regards as dangerous aspects of the plan.
She said the plan's proposal to rezone parts of Red Hook from manufacturing to mixed-use zones for both residential and commercial use threatens to limit, and even drive out, industry. Ms. Stolz said Red Hook had gained 70 new businesses since 1993, to a total of 280. Greg O'Connell, a developer who has turned old Red Hook piers into vibrant locales for light manufacturing, has said the plan is "badly slanted" toward residents' concerns and is a "kick in the teeth" to business.
The supporters of the plan portray the detractors as "a tiny minority," who have reneged on their previous support in retaliation for the decision by Community Board 6 to delay acting on a proposal for a Business Improvement District in Red Hook.
To the proponents, the opposition is a power play by Mr. O'Connell, who they said profited enormously from the neighborhood's support of his early projects. They say there are signatures of 100 Red Hook business people who support the renewal project, known as a 197-A plan. They note that the committee that drafted the plan has already agreed to reconsider the siting of the proposed Education Plaza, the complex that would include a 500-student school for grades 7 to 12 as well as centers for teen-agers and job-training. And the committee agreed not to take any private property.
"People rightly feel shocked and betrayed," said Bruce Mesh, a member of the committee that produced the plan. "We worked on it for three years, held public meetings, welcomed all who wanted to participate. These same people offered letters of support. That a limited number of people could block this begs the question of what a 197-A plan is. The success of this plan is not only vital for Red Hook, but for the rest of the city."
That new legislation was drawn to let the residents of individual neighborhoods draw up their own ideas of how their communities could be revitalized. Red Hook took the proposition seriously.
Using the ideas of day-care workers and statisticians, public housing leaders and academics in civic engineering, the planners put together a package of designs that increase Red Hook's population (it had fallen to 11,000 in 1990 from 21,000 in 1950), and beautify the neighborhood of vast waterfront and physical charms of space and light.
They acknowledged that they faced a monumental bureaucracy (23 government agencies were cited in the plan), but they noted the plan's advantages. Its residential housing proposals would not require much new construction. The neighborhood's appeal to manufacturers is that a quarter of all of Red Hook's land stands vacant. And its ideas for economic development relied on private financing. The Community Board passed it 38-0; the Borough President agreed to it and formed a task force to begin putting it into effect; city planners from around the world wanted to study it.
"It was hailed as a model," said Edward Rogowsky, a member of the City Planning Commission. "All of a sudden, the model didn't work. Maybe they were too specific in their proposals. Maybe they hadn't done enough outreach."
The sides have dug in hard. Mr. O'Connell, a former New York City police detective, said, "Businessmen have realized what was happening with this plan, and they are afraid." Richard Barschow, who runs a scrap metal business in Red Hook, said the plan was essential to getting banks to lend money to people in the neighborhood, and added, "Red Hook will remain a ghost town if the plan dies."
Symbols for the dispute are the buildings at the base of Van Brunt Street, Red Hook's main commercial strip. The plan called for the city-owned buildings to be converted into a residential and commercial complex.
Mr. Mesh endorses the action as an economic stimulus. But Mr. O'Connell maintained that taking over the buildings would put the current tenant out of business in Red Hook.
Alan Schoenberg, a salt distributor in Red Hook and an admirer of much of the renewal plan, fears for its future: "If neither side moves, it won't be resolved, and in my opinion the plan will die. There is an emotional personality to what is going on, and it's eating up the people and the good energy that is here."
The Planning Commission last summer returned the plan to Community Board 6 for revisions to address the opposition's concerns. After the board submits that revised plan in the coming months, Mr. Rose said, the commission will decide whether to send the plan on to the City Council for approval.
"The essence of the plan is for a mixed-use neighborhood, and that is what I think will emerge," Mr. Rose said. "But even a plan that had as much merit as Red Hook's is not perfect."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A picture with the continuation of an article on Friday about a redevelopment plan for Red Hook, Brooklyn, carried an incorrect caption in some copies. The picture showed Greg O'Connell, a developer opposed to the plan, not three supporters of the plan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, city planning efforts once touted as sophisticated and practical have resulted in an angry standoff. Critics of the plan, Bette Stolz, Lisa Tennyson and Wally Shapiro, on the waterfront at Van Brunt Street. (pg. B1); From left, Bruce Mesh, Richard Barschow and John McGettrick, who are supporters of the Red Hook renewal plan. "Red Hook will remain a ghost town if the plan dies," Mr. Barschow said. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B2)
 
Chart: "A Neighborhood Divided" lists several issues stifling the plans to revitalize Red Hook. (pg. B1)
 
Map of Brooklyn highlighting Red Hook. (pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: RED HOOK CIVIC ASSOCIATION (97%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; RED HOOK (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TRENDS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996



123 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Trims Losses Late in Day As House Acts to End Shutdown

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar settled lower against other leading currencies yesterday, recovering a bit in late trading after the House passed a bill to end the partial shutdown of the Federal Government.
But analysts saw more uncertainty ahead until a final budget-balancing deal was reached. 
 In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 105.27 yen, down from 105.30 yen late Thursday. The dollar was worth 1.4385 German marks in New York, down from 1.4430 marks late Thursday. The British pound edged up to $1.5512 from $1.5510.
The dollar came off its lows of 104.70 yen and 1.4346 marks when the House voted to end the latest Government shutdown and return some 280,000 furloughed Federal employees through Jan. 26.
President Clinton said he would sign the bill if it was passed by the Senate as expected.
Financial markets have been rising and falling lately along with the shifting sentiment on the future of the stalemate between Mr. Clinton and Republicans over how to balance the Federal budget.
A dollar rally early this week was cut short Thursday after budget talks collapsed and the currency continued its slide yesterday until the House action.
"There's nothing for the market to get its teeth into," said Tom Benfer, director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal's New York office.
The dollar will likely rise when an agreement is reached because the markets see declining deficits as anti-inflationary and helpful to the dollar, he said.
Chris Iggo, economist at Chase Manhattan Bank in New York, said the longer the budget stalemate dragged on, the less enthusiastic the market was going to be when a deal was reached. That could account for yesterday's relatively weak upward bounce from the House vote.
"The figures are going to be fudged to some extent and it won't be a credible package, so there's not much reason to be bullish and the market is, I think, reflecting that," he said.
The market largely ignored the resignation of the Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama of Japan, with analysts saying that his departure had been widely anticipated and that Japan's future economic policies remain a question mark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (82%); BMO (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



124 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
China Says Growth and Inflation Eased in 1995

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Chinese economic growth slowed slightly last year, the State Statistical Bureau said today, but that was in keeping with the Government's efforts to curb inflation, which slowed considerably.
Economic output increased 10.2 percent last year, down from the 11.8 percent increase of 1994 but above the Government's target of a rate between 9 percent and 10 percent. Retail prices rose 14.8 percent, considerably slower than 1994's increase of 21.7 percent and meeting the Government target of an increase of less than 15 percent. 
 In an effort to cool the overheated economy, the Government has imposed price controls and limits on the amount of credit available to companies. A record grain harvest last year also helped reduce price pressures.
Foreign analysts use the Government statistics to track trends in China, but they note that the data are often unreliable. The Government itself has found that as many as one-third of local officials fudge their books, sometimes wildly misreporting figures.
According to today's report by the Statistical Bureau, China's trade surplus widened sharply last year, to about $20 billion from $5.3 billion in 1994, as total trade volume grew 18 percent, to $280 billion. The wide Chinese surplus has generated trade tensions with the United States.
Per capita income rose by an inflation-adjusted 4 percent in China's cities last year, to $464, and by 5 percent in rural areas, to $186.75.
The economic expansion has caused retail sales to grow steadily, an important factor driving the economy, Ye Zhen, an official of the Statistical Bureau, said. Sales of consumer goods rose 11 percent in 1995, to $240 billion. The percentage increase is not adjusted for inflation, however.
Rising demand for a wide variety of consumer goods not previously available or affordable is expected to continue to fuel economic growth.
Nevertheless, China's economy still has serious structural problems, economists said. "The base of agricultural production is weak," Mr. Ye said. "Prices are still on a high level; the task for curbing inflation is still arduous. Some of the enterprises have difficulties in management and operations."
Many of China's state-owned companies continue to be unprofitable. In particular, the heavy industries are mired in debt and burdened with huge numbers of redundant workers.
Still, industrial output increased 14 percent last year, to $277 billion.
Unemployment remained steady at 2.9 percent of the labor force in 1995, the bureau said, as officials and industries struggled to find new places for workers laid off from state-owned factories.
Some estimates in the official media put unemployment as high as 3.8 percent. Foreign analysts said that the methods for calculating unemployment in China tended to understate the problem because many people officially remained on payrolls without actually working and while receiving little or no pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE STATISTICAL BUREAU (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INCOME EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); AGRICULTURE (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); GRAIN FARMING (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



125 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
In Rebound From Weak Year, Chinese Stocks Are Surging

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Shares in Chinese companies have been surging on world markets since the year began, a marked contrast to their weakness in 1995. While analysts and fund managers say that some of the stocks are likely to maintain their gains, they warn that other issues have been merely pulled up in the excitement and could fall sharply if corporate earnings weaken.
Lifted by an improving Chinese economy, an appetite among American investors and strength among Asian stocks over all, Chinese share prices rose sharply this week on the New York Stock Exchange, in Hong Kong and on China's two stock exchanges. Because the shares fell sharply last year, investors are buying them at bargain prices. 
 "China has engineered a very good economic landing, and conditions will improve this year," said Ean Wah Chin, a Singapore-based managing director at Morgan Stanley Group Inc., which manages $4 billion in Asian equities outside of Japan. Fund managers in the United States, flush with cash from investors betting that American stocks may run out of steam, are looking for inexpensive stocks in Asia, she said.
But Simon Lee, manager of the $8.8 million China Fund at Sun Hung Kai Fund Management, was cautious. "The consolidation should happen any time now," he said. "Share prices have been going up 50 percent and 60 percent and no one can explain it."
Mr. Lee said that low trading volumes in some of the stocks suggested that investors with large holdings were trying to manipulate prices to feed the frenzy.
Chinese stocks have drawn attention in the United States this week. On Thursday, for example, five of the eight leading percentage gainers on the New York Stock Exchange were Chinese companies. The issues ended the week with strong gains. Among them, Brilliance China Automotive Holding closed today at $7.25, up 87 percent from its closing price at the end of 1995, and China Tire Holding closed at $8, up 47 percent.
Overseas, the index of stocks in Chinese state-owned companies that trade in Hong Kong rose 2 percent, bringing its gain for the week to nearly 19 percent. Last year, the index fell 29 percent, in contrast to a gain of 23 percent in the Hang Seng Index, which tracks the stocks of major Hong Kong companies.
In trading in China today, B shares, which are shares in Chinese companies that foreigners can buy, rose 1.8 percent on Shenzhen's stock exchange but fell nine-tenths of 1 percent on Shanghai's exchange. So far this year, B shares are up 7 percent in Shanghai and 1.2 percent in Shenzhen.
Through the close of Hong Kong trading today, the CLSA China World Index, which tracks leading Chinese companies listed on world exchanges, was up 13 percent for the week. It had fallen 11 percent during the last two months of 1995.
One reason for the strength in share prices is the improving state of the Chinese economy. The Government announced in Beijing today that economic growth slowed slightly last year but still remained above the official target. The Government has been trying to hold down growth to restrain inflation, which did show a sharp slowdown last year.
Another factor aiding stocks is an absence of changes in Chinese taxes that would hurt corporate earnings. There had been speculation that such changes were near, but the Beijing Government, which usually announces any tax changes on Jan. 1, did not disclose any revisions as the year began.
"If there were any more tax reforms, they would have come out by now," said Sonja Jong, assistant director at Mees Pierson Capital Management, which has $1 billion invested in Asian equities. "People think it's safe to get in, especially at these low levels."
The improvements in China's economy have come at a cost, however. As part of its efforts to fight inflation, the Government restrained credit last year, making it difficult for companies to finance operations and expansions.
As a result, analysts expect some companies to report 1995 earnings that were weaker than had been expected. The analysts said they did not expect earnings to improve until this year's second half. Corporate reports for 1995 are due in April.
"Some of the buying was indiscriminate," Graham Muirhead, director of HSBC Asset Management, said about this week's activity. "There is an improved economic environment, but slower economic growth means severe problems for companies." HSBC oversees $200 million in specialized China investment funds.
The earnings reports may not tell the whole story. Many state-run enterprises are poorly managed and are routinely late in informing investors of negative news. Even well-managed companies can have clients that refuse to pay their bills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (69%); 1114 (HKSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); JAPAN FUND (56%); BRILLIANCE CHINA AUTOMOTIVE HOLDINGS LTD (53%); CHINA TIRE HOLDINGS LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); BONDS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



126 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Long Bond Ends Lower in Day of Mixed Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, with the longer maturities moving lower.
Market participants remained edgy with more reported delays of Government statistics because of the partial Government shutdown -- now in its third week -- and, with headlines about Washington's stalled budget negotiations moving on the business news wires, few were in a buying mood. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 9/32 of a percentage point, to 111 13/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.04 percent, from 6.02 percent on Thursday. A weaker dollar and rising commodity prices also kept the long maturities under selling pressure.
"Normally the market would be eagerly anticipating the release of the December nonfarm payroll report this morning," said Carroll J. Delaney, director of research at Stires, O'Donnell & Company, "but we all know that dog isn't hunting at the moment."
Mr. Delaney said that while it might be a little early to characterize the selloff that occurred late Thursday as anything more than a healthy correction to an overbought market, it should be remembered that the swift and precipitous decline in yields occurred with only a paltry few corrective hiccups since last July, when the yield on the long bond was 6.96 percent. And if all parties in Washington have not been scared into negotiating by now, he said, then the Treasury market might be extremely vulnerable to a major rout.
The slumping dollar was also exerting pressure on prices, since a weak dollar makes dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities less attractive to foreign investors.
Futures were lower, with the March bond contract down from the outset. One large investment bank started the selling at a price of 120 16/32 , and other dealers promptly followed. The session high was 120 24/32 and the low was 119 19/32 ; the price settled at 120 8/32 .
Thomas E. Donne, vice president and a senior portfolio manager at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, said that in a market already troubled by the budget talks, the mention Thursday of possible impeachment proceedings against the Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, by Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, the upstate New York Republican who is chairman of the House Rules Committee, led to the heavy selling. "That put things on different plane," he said.
Mr. Donne said the selling was largely concentrated in the futures market, as investors there felt that the budget deficit reduction agreement which appeared so close at hand a week ago, was now questionable. If there were to be a a missed interest rate payment and dafault, "it would set Government credibility back years," he said.
Market losses were trimmed in the afternoon when the House passed a bill to return Government workers to Federal payrolls, suggesting that some of the heated rhetoric and posturing of the last few days has cooled, even though the measure cannot be enacted unless the Senate also passes it and President Clinton signs it, both of which appeared possible. "The market regarded the passage of the bill as a step forward in the negotiations," Mr. Donne said, "with the sides at least not backing away from each other."
Elsewhere, Wall Street firms will not be receiving delivery of $750 million of Government National Mortgage Association securities that they expect by the end of January, if the Government's partial shutdown drags on for two more weeks, Ginnie Mae's president, Kevin Chavers, said on Thursday.
Wall Street firms may already have committed to sell the mortgage-backed securities to investors, further complicating the issue, Mr. Chavers said.
Congress has failed to provide Ginnie Mae with the authority to provide those mortgage-backed securities, Mr. Chavers said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); PRICES OF TREASURY (66%); GINNIE MAE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (66%); GINNIE MAE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); IMPEACHMENT (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT THOMAS E DONNE (75%); KEVIN CHAVERS (70%); CARROLL J DELANEY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



127 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Shaking Up Czech Industry;
A Western Entrepreneur Plays Capitalist Hardball

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
When Michael D. Dingman, an American executive with a nose for value and a reputation for rapid restructurings, acquired stakes in a smorgasbord of Czech companies, the cozy business community here sat up.
Soon after announcing his $200 million package of investments in late October, Mr. Dingman, the former president of Allied Signal Inc., engineered a board-room shake-up that prevented a Swedish paper giant from taking control of the Czech Republic's biggest paper company. 
 A month later, on his first visit here -- the irrepressible Mr. Dingman, 64, bought his Czech portfolio long distance from his beachfront home in the Bahamas -- he informed Plzensky Prazdroj, a beer company in which he holds an indirect interest, that he wanted to install an American manager. A brash marketer from archenemy Anheuser-Busch peddling prestigious Pilsner Urquell? The Czech brewery couldn't quite believe it -- and balked.
Mr. Dingman's investment in beer, paper, oil, shipping and other businesses represents the first effort by a big foreign entrepreneur to shake up slumbering Czech industry since Eastern Europe's most sweeping mass privatization program was completed here a year ago.
While multinationals like Volkswagen and Philip Morris have made their mark here by buying plants directly from the Government, Mr. Dingman's investment is the largest transfer of publicly traded Czech equity to a single owner. He bought the shares from Viktor Kozeny, 32, the founder of the Harvard Capital and Consulting Corporation, the country's biggest investment fund, which amassed an estimated $1 billion worth of holdings in Czech companies during the privatization process.
To hear Mr. Dingman tell it, his foray into the Czech Republic was a deliberate choice of one emerging market over another: Eastern Europe, neglected by American investors because of uncertainties about politics and profits in ex-Communist countries, over the more familiar and booming Southeast Asia.
Mr. Dingman is betting he can make that choice pay off by playing the same kind of capitalist hardball that he practiced for many years in the United States. Having helped build Allied Signal into a giant conglomerate, he took the pieces that didn't fit and formed another company, the Henley Group. Mainly through cost-cutting efforts and financial incentives to line managers, he turned this ragtag collection of 35 lackluster businesses around -- and then spun them off to Henley shareholders or took them public, making a fortune for himself in the process.
Whether Mr. Dingman can perform more magic here is an open question. He has a wily partner in Mr. Kozeny, who knows all the players and which buttons to push even though he, too, now makes his home in the Bahamas.
But the fact that Mr. Dingman has already run into some opposition -- at the beer company, for one, which is still balking, though negotiations continue -- is an indication of the high anxiety level over his rough-and-tumble business style. Most privatized companies are owned by passive investors through mutual funds managed by Mr. Kozeny and others -- and hard decisions about making the companies more competitive internationally, including the need for layoffs in some cases, have been rare.
Indeed, Mr. Dingman says he will bring to Czech corporate culture what has been lacking: hands-on management by a real owner. In so doing, he told Czech officials and managers during his two-day meet-and-greet visit in late November, he would "unlock the value of the assets."
He is working, he said, with Mr. Kozeny, who is his neighbor in the Bahamas, to buy plants in Russia that will complement the Czech companies and form the basis for an industrial empire in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. In the last month, Mr. Dingman has reached agreements to invest in two Russian companies whose businesses relate to some of the larger holdings in the Czech Republic.
Western "troubleshooters" -- buddies of Mr. Dingman's from his network of contacts in the United States -- will lead the charge. One is installed at Ceska Namove Plavba, or Czech Ocean Shipping, the national cargo carrier in which Mr. Dingman and Mr. Kozeny have a 69 percent stake. And retired executives from Texaco have looked over Moravske Naftove Doly, the country's sole oil and gas exploration company, in which the partners hold a minority interest. The new arrivals will help tighten financial management while broadening marketing efforts, Mr. Dingman said.
"The historical education of Czech managers is different from American and Western managers -- in marketing, where you need to sell as opposed to allocate, and in the area of cost control," Mr. Dingman said.
William Genco, an analyst at Merrill Lynch who has long followed Mr. Dingman's career in the United States, notes that "he has a track record of attracting extraordinary managers."
But at the beer company, Mr. Dingman faces a well-entrenched management, proud of its history and unused to aggressive marketing. And at Sepap, the paper company, he will have to show industry professionals that he brings as much expertise to the table as did AssiDoman, the company's Swedish partner that Mr. Dingman outflanked in the board-room battle.
For these and other reasons, several market analysts here expressed reservations about Mr. Dingman and his Nassau-based Stratton Investments Company.
"There is no question that industry needs a shake-up," said Alex Angell, a director of Wood & Company, a leading brokerage firm in Prague. "But whether the best results will be encouraged by fear remains to be seen," a reference to the shake-up at Sepap that resulted in the removal of its manager from the board.
Elisa Mazan, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company in New York, said: "Stratton will be judged by what they do. People are optimistic that Stratton will bring in know-how. But they haven't made any moves yet."
Mr. Dingman got on the road to Eastern Europe shortly after he renounced his American citizenship in 1994 and moved to the Bahamas, a tax haven. He began to study emerging markets and became friendly with Mr. Kozeny, who had moved to the Bahamas after Czech prosecutors started investigating his involvement with a Government official convicted of selling state secrets. (The Government has since made it clear that Mr. Kozeny would not be prosecuted if he came back, but he has chosen not to return.)
"Ten months ago, Viktor pulled out a map of the industrial world," Mr. Dingman recalled. "He said: 'In Eastern Europe and Russia, all the facilities are in place.' The roads, the pipelines, the factories, the aluminum smelters. There's no serious industrial infrastructure in Southeast Asia. It already exists in Central Europe and clearly this offered extraordinary opportunities for fungible products like paper, cement, aluminum and steel."
And Mr. Kozeny, a Harvard-educated Czech-American, offered access. He got that access by gambling big on privatization's future. When the country's state industries went on the block, each Czech got the right to buy vouchers to purchase shares. More than 800,000 Czechs entrusted their vouchers to Mr. Kozeny, who promised a tenfold return within a year in return for a management fee. The market went up sixtyfold.
According to Mr. Dingman's representative in Prague, Daniel J. Arbess, Mr. Kozeny has sold holdings in seven companies to Mr. Dingman's Stratton Investments. Mr. Kozeny then went back into the market to acquire more stock and surrendered to Stratton the attached voting rights in return for 10 percent of future gains in the holdings originally sold to Stratton.
Mr. Arbess, until recently the Prague-based head of the worldwide privatization group at White & Case, a New York law firm, said Stratton and Mr. Kozeny's Harvard Capital have majority stakes in Sklo Union, a glass manufacturer, in addition to the shipping company and Sepap. The two also have minority stakes in Spolana, a chemical maker; Prazska Teplarenska, a heating utility; Moravske Naftove Doly, the oil company, and Biocel Paskov, a pulp producer. As for the beer company, Stratton has a contract with Harvard Capital to share in the appreciation of the fund's 31 percent stake, Mr. Arbess said. (Harvard Capital has no affiliation with Harvard University.)
On top of all that, Stratton recently agreed in principle to buy a 15 percent stake in Premiera TV, a television broadcaster based in Prague.
At Sepap, one of the best managed of the Czech Republic's newly privatized companies, Mr. Dingman defeated AssiDoman in a proxy battle orchestrated by Mr. Kozeny.
For Sepap's 43-year-old general manager, Tomas Sabatka, Stratton's takeover was both flattering and bewildering: though removed from the board, he was allowed to keep his position as operational manager.
Mr. Sabatka had pummeled the company, based in Steti, 60 miles north of Prague, into better shape. Since 1990, Sepap shed nearly half of its 6,000 workers, sold off two unprofitable subsidiaries and paid off debts.
At AssiDoman headquarters in Stockholm, there were questions about whether Mr. Dingman knew what he was doing by entering the paper industry. Ragnar Qarnstrom, manager of AssiDoman's heavy paper products, said he believed Mr. Dingman had paid too much for his share of Sepap, particularly at a time when the paper industry was due for a cyclical downturn. Sepap, he said, needed an estimated $500 million in investment in the next 5 to 10 years. The paper plants in Russia that Mr. Dingman was considering buying were also facing a downturn, Mr. Qarnstrom said.
In any event, for every hard-charging Mr. Sabatka, Mr. Dingman faces many more managers out of the classically stodgy Czech mold, like those at the beer company.
"The perception from the Czech Republic is that 'We own the market; no one will mess in this territory,' " Mr. Dingman said. "But coming from a Western market and being frightened to death of Western consumer companies who are so good and so cunning, I'd be concerned."
Of his own future here, though, Mr. Dingman seems to have few concerns, even after his shaky start at the beer company. "I'm disappointed," he said, "but not deterred."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Dingman, an American businessman who is known for his rapid restructurings, has bought stakes in several Czech Companies. (Brian Smith/Outline for Business Week)(pg. 33)
 
Chart: "Rebuilding and Eastern Empire" lists the challenges that Stratton and Harvard Capital face in their investments in the Czech Republic. (pg. 35)
 
Graph: "One Big Investor" shows a look at Michael D. Dingman's holdings in the Czech Republic. (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (56%); BUD (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (56%); 

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); BAHAMAS (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (58%); 

COMPANY: PLZENSKY PRAZDROJ AS (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC; CZECH REPUBLIC (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); BAHAMAS (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); BREWERIES (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (88%); PRIVATIZATION (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); TRENDS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (71%); PAPER MFG (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; DINGMAN, MICHAEL D; KOZENY, VIKTOR MICHAEL D DINGMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



128 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: One Type of Bond Fund That May Have Crested

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
After five years in which hundreds of single-state municipal bond funds have been started, mutual fund companies are quietly closing or consolidating some. This is a result of a lack of interest from investors, and, in some states, a scant supply of municipal bonds.
Even though the number of single-state mutual funds is at a high, the countertrend is developing. Some big mutual fund companies, like John Nuveen & Company, have consolidated many single-state closed-end funds into one larger fund to achieve economies of scale. Other fund companies, like Prudential Mutual Funds and the Dreyfus Corporation, a unit of the Mellon Bank, have eliminated some state funds entirely and rolled them into big national funds -- where, the companies say, investors can earn even higher returns. 
 While the number of fund consolidations is not large, they are seen by some as a sign that the boom in single-state funds may be ending. There may be too many small and fragmented funds to meet a declining investor appetite for municipal bonds, municipal bonds experts say.
States like New York, Pennsylvania and California have high tax rates and issue a large number of bonds, and residents of these states can gain a tax break by buying the bonds of their own states. But some say that the mutual fund industry has aggressively marketed single-state funds that make no economic sense -- offering funds, for instance, for states where the income tax rates are so low that the after-tax returns from these funds are not competitive with other investments. In some cases, single-state funds have been offered for states where there are no state income taxes at all -- and therefore no need for a tax-sheltered investment.
In the last few months, Dreyfus has rolled a Colorado and an Arizona fund into its national municipal bond fund. Nuveen, which has more single-state funds than any other mutual fund company, has merged 37 closed-end state funds into 16 state funds and has more consolidations in the wings. And Prudential has rolled funds from Arizona, Georgia and Minnesota into a national fund.
In many of these national funds, investors will get higher yields, which can more than offset the reduction in any tax benefits from a single-state fund.
"For us, this consolidation was part of an overall review of our fund family," said Terry Hamacher , president and chief investment officer for Prudential Mutual Funds. "Some of these funds were very small and we were having difficulty in finding a lot of good new municipal issues. We felt our shareholders would be better served being in our national municipal fund, where the after-tax yields would be higher."
Single-state municipal bond funds are being buffeted by the same forces that are hurting the municipal bond market in general. A falling volume of securities issued by cities and towns means fewer securities to buy -- the 1995 volume of new municipal issues is about half the $300 billion issued in 1993. Investor concerns about a flat tax, which could undermine the value of tax-exempt bonds, has cut demand for municipal bonds in general. And the bankruptcy of Orange County, Calif., has added to investor jitters.
"Basically, we are faced with a lackluster market," said Diane Coffey, a spokeswoman for Dreyfus. "A lot of these states don't even issue enough securities. Then, you've had competition from a bull stock market and the administrative costs of some of these funds has been high. It just made more sense to take some of these small funds and roll them into something bigger."
Between 1990 and 1995, the number of single-state municipal bond funds exploded. Lipper Analytical Services reported that in 1990, there were 267 single-state municipal funds; by 1995, this had grown to 731 funds. The assets in these funds in 1990 were $46 billion, and by 1995 they had grown to $113 billion. So while assets in these funds were growing by 27 percent a year over this period, the number of funds was rising by 37 percent a year.
"There has been a huge glut of these funds on the market and it has been hard to separate one from another," said Patricia Brady, an analyst with Morningstar Inc., which researches mutual funds. "It got to the point that there was no reason to buy one fund over another. And a lot of those single-state funds should never have existed. For instance, there are a huge number of Florida municipal bond funds, but there are no state taxes. Those people would be better off in a national municipal bond fund."
But Jon Teall, a municipal bond research coordinator at Lipper, said that it might be too early to tell if a broad consolidation was under way.
"The evidence of consolidation is not compelling to me," Mr. Teall said. "It seems that all fund companies that were planning to introduce single-state funds already have, so perhaps we are seeing a topping out. The engine of growth behind these funds is showing signs of slowing, so maybe we are at the peak. Yet I'm not certain that the factors behind consolidation have really taken root and are beginning to influence events."
Kathleen Flannagan, vice president for mutual fund organization at Nuveen, said the driving force behind Nuveen's single-state consolidation move was a desire to reduce the fund's administrative costs and provide higher returns to investors. In addition to consolidation that has already taken place, Nuveen plans to merge two California and two New York funds in the next few months and will continue to look for other possible consolidations.
Ms. Flannagan said that the cost savings to the funds from these consolidations had ranged from a few basis points -- a basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point -- to as much as 27 basis points.
"This is a matter of creating efficiencies for our shareholders," Ms. Flannagan said. "We've taken funds that had $10 million in them and rolled them into funds with $200 million. There are a lot of administrative costs that are fixed for any fund regardless of size -- legal, custodial and customer-related expenses -- and the only way to gain economies of scale is to join a larger fund."
In some states, because of their low taxes, investments in bonds in the state become questionable when other investments can offer investors better returns on an after-tax basis. For instance, Texas and Florida have no state income taxes. But there are currently 13 Texas municipal bond funds and 57 Florida funds.
"There is no reason for anyone to buy a municipal bond fund of a state where there are no income taxes," Ms. Brady of Morningstar said. "But look at the huge amount of Florida funds out there. These investors are being hoodwinked."
The Norwest Corporation, which is based in Minneapolis, recently closed its Arizona fund, largely because the firm had little presence in Arizona and there was little demand for the product, said Lee Chase, who runs the company's mutual funds. Ms. Chase, however, said that Norwest had no plans to close its Minnesota and Colorado single-state funds.
"It's a combination of factors," Ms. Chase said. "There is the question of how much paper is available, the size of the market in the state and the marginal tax bracket of the people in the state. More mutual funds companies are slicing up a very small market in each state, so the potential for us to reach a critical mass with our fund was very low."
"We looked at the market," Ms. Chase added, "and found it was very limited."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Top 10 State Municipal Debt Funds" lists the top 10 state municipal debt funds. (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); PRUDENTIAL MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; GOVERNMENT BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); BONDS (92%); BOND FUNDS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); MERGERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE JON TEALL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



129 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Surprise Tax Bill Pushes Down Taiwan Stocks

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
It may be reassuring to know that political peregrinations someplace other than Washington can also stir up financial markets.
Comments coming out of the budget battle between Republican lawmakers and the Clinton Administration have whipsawed American stock and bond markets in recent days. But those swings have been mild compared with the wild plunge in Taiwan's stock exchange yesterday caused by 37 legislators in Taipei. 
 On Thursday, with most of the nation's 150-member Parliament out to lunch, the 37 members of the opposition D.P.P. party rammed through a bill that would impose a capital gains tax on profits from stock transactions.
The bill was unexpected, and Taiwan's weighted price index, which posted a 30 percent decline in dollar terms last year, plummeted another 6.7 percent yesterday, its biggest one-day loss in more than five years.
Lin Chen-kuo, the Finance Minister, said that the Government opposed the new law, but analysts said President Lee Teng-hui, who faces opposition in the country's first independent elections, in March, would have little choice but to sign it.
As of late yesterday, however, it appeared that an alternative Government-supported bill intended to rescind much of what was passed on Thursday would be introduced early next week.
The index fell slightly in today's two-hour trading session, dropping 47.91 points, or almost 1 percent, to 4,847.21.
The bill left analysts amazed, in large part because the Government spent much of last year enacting laws intended to encourage foreign investment in Taiwan securities.
"This came out of the blue," said David Ishibashi, a portfolio manager at Smith Barney International. "I was in Taiwan right before Christmas, and the issue was never discussed."
Alex Baez, a vice president at J. P. Morgan Investment Management, said that "throughout 1995, Taiwanese authorities gave the impression they were welcoming and encouraging foreign capital, and we were very encouraged by the moves."
"But this capital gains tax stance is very disappointing to us," Mr. Baez added. "We hope it will be reconsidered."
Nicholas Horsley, co-manager of the Warburg Pincus Emerging Markets Fund, was less diplomatic.
"They rammed this through, and it was a total ambush," he said. "Whoever is the Government whip in Parliament ought to be drawn and quartered."
This episode adds to the list of imponderables facing those who have invested in or are considering entering Taiwan's riotous stock market, where local investors routinely turn their portfolios over once a week.
But Mr. Horsley said that potential investors should ignore the capital gains issue, as well as the approaching election and the nature of Taiwan's future relationship with China, and focus on the fundamentals.
"Ignore the politics, go ahead and invest," he said. "The economics are compelling."
In Mr. Horsley's view, the facts worth considering are: an economy that is likely to expand at better than a 7 percent rate; high corporate earnings growth; a very low rate of inflation and a country that has the world's second-highest level of foreign reserves, after Japan. Moreover, given the magnitude of the sell-off last year and so far in 1996, stock prices seem highly attractive.
Mr. Baez, who was not quite so bullish, conceded the latter point.
"On a historical basis, the market looks pretty cheap," he said, noting that in recent years the average price-earnings ratio for the market has been about 30, but is now about half that.
After acknowledging that Taiwan has "great companies," Mr. Ishibashi said that for the time being he intended to stay away.
The events of last year -- including Chinese missile tests over Taiwan as well as trial amphibious troop landings conducted by Beijing on the Chinese coast -- upset investors and Taiwan citizens alike.
"The overriding consideration is the elections," Mr. Ishibashi said. "At some point, I will be getting into the market. But until March the market will move in a sawtooth pattern."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Taken by Surprise" shows returns for the Taiwan Fund and the Taiwan weighted price index from June 1995 to Jan. 1996. (Source: Datastream)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BONDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); CHRISTMAS (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



130 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Japan Premier Resigns in Sign Of a Party Shift

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 5

 BODY:
The abrupt resignation today of Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama stunned Japan and triggered a political struggle that will lead not only to a new prime minister but perhaps also to a major political realignment.
The resignation of Mr. Murayama, 71, who was regarded by much of the electorate as equally honorable and incompetent, is expected to lead to a generational shift toward younger and more dynamic leaders. 
Although Mr. Murayama did not formally name a successor, he is said to have privately anointed Ryutaro Hashimoto, the Trade Minister and leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, which is in coalition with Mr. Murayama's Socialists.
The elevation of Mr. Hashimoto, 58, would signify a remarkable recovery for the Liberal Democratic Party, which governed Japan for nearly four decades before being ousted in elections in 1993. Then ridiculed as corrupt, exhausted and devoid of ideas, the party now seems set to regain the top spot in the Government.
The Liberal Democrats were sobered by their time in the political wilderness, however, for Mr. Hashimoto does not fit the stereotype of a corrupt power broker. Instead, he was chosen partly because of his appeal to voters, based on a clean record and a telegenic ability to speak his mind and project energy.
The change would not immediately affect the coalition or the balance of power in Parliament. But the longer-term implications could be profound.
Mr. Hashimoto is of a younger and more assertive generation, and his ascendance would set up a head-on clash with another hard-charging leader, 53-year-old Ichiro Ozawa of the New Frontier Party, the largest opposition group. Some see in this clash the emergence of a stable two-party system in Japan.
And no matter who wins that contest, Japan appears likely to adopt a foreign policy profile more in keeping with its status as a global trade giant, ending a half-century of timidity since its defeat in World War II.
"I've never avoided taking responsibility," Mr. Hashimoto told reporters today, with a candor that might have been considered unseemly by the old rules of Japanese politics. "I'll pursue the same line, and whenever I have to assume responsibility, I will do so."
Mr. Hashimoto beamed at the prospect of moving into the Prime Minister's residence next week, and he seemed the second-happiest person in Japan today. The happiest was perhaps Mr. Murayama, who has been regularly plumbing new lows in public opinion polls, and he looked thrilled and relieved as he announced his resignation.
The rise of Mr. Hashimoto could spell difficulties for the United States, for he has been unusually forceful and feisty in dealing with America.
Last year he led Japan's resistance to American demands for changes in its automobile market, and in the 1980's as Transport Minister he fought American attempts to win construction contracts for a huge airport near Osaka. Japanese officials reportedly once explained that American contractors would be inappropriate because "Japan has different dirt."
Yet some Americans argue that a more assertive and decisive Japan is not just inevitable but also healthy for relations between the two countries.
"I think that U.S.-Japanese relations should improve if Hashimoto becomes Prime Minister, in the sense that Hashimoto is much more direct and straightforward about asserting Japan's positions on issues," said Glen S. Fukushima, an American businessman and vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. "Although there are concerns about Hashimoto's assertiveness, in the long run it's better to know what Japanese leaders are thinking."
As the world's second-largest economy, Japan is often ridiculed as an oddity: a first-rate nation with third-rate politicians. Over the last decade, Japan probably has had more prime ministers and fewer leaders than any other major country. Yet with the resignation of Mr. Murayama, that may be changing.
The axis of power appears to be shifting to Mr. Hashimoto and Mr. Ozawa. Both men are often criticized as arrogant, headstrong and prickly. But there is also no doubt that they are leaders and that they envision a role for Japan that is more independent and self-assured than in the past.
But Mr. Hashimoto, a devotee of kendo, or Japanese fencing, who practices with his sword on the roof of the Trade Ministry, is more comfortable than Mr. Murayama with the American military bases in Japan. So discussions about security cooperation, which are to be the focus of President Clinton's visit to Japan in April, may go more smoothly.
Although he says he favors a loosening of government regulation of the faltering Japanese economy, he does not go nearly as far as Mr. Ozawa, and the Liberal Democratic Party is backed by constituencies -- like farmers and small businesses -- that rely on existing rules to protect them from competition.
Mr. Hashimoto's elevation would be a chance for the Liberal Democratic Party to show voters a new face in power before the next elections, helping erase the memories of decades in which party leaders were so accustomed to power that they seemed to regard it as their birthright. Japan in those days was sometimes called a one-party state.
But since the Liberal Democrats fell from power, some political scientists have suggested that the country may be moving toward an American-style system in which two main parties compete for votes and power switches back and forth. With Mr. Hashimoto running Japan as head of the Liberal Democrats and Mr. Ozawa excoriating him as head of the opposition, the outlines of such a two-party system would become visible.
Parliament is expected to meet in special session beginning on Thursday to choose the next Prime Minister. A variety of officials in the governing coalition made it clear that Mr. Hashimoto was expected to be named.
"As for the Liberal Democratic Party, Mr. Hashimoto is the only choice," said Koichi Kato, the secretary general of the Liberal Democrats.
To win, Mr. Hashimoto needs the votes not only of the Liberal Democrats but also of the Socialists and of a third, minor party in the coalition. Some members of the smaller parties may balk at voting for Mr. Hashimoto, but they have a strong incentive to stick together: Otherwise, there may be immediate elections, under a new system of single-seat constituencies, and the small parties could be wiped off the political map.
Mr. Ozawa, who was just elected opposition leader a week ago, immediately pressed his demand for a snap election.
"The Government should dissolve as soon as possible, to ask voters whether they want this Government to stay in power," he told reporters. "If this Government is re-elected, then they'll have a mandate to be in power."
All of Japan's leading newspapers have already called for prompt general elections -- in any case they must be held by July 1997 -- and major business leaders also urged that general elections be held early. Business executives said they welcomed the announcement, and stock prices rose slightly.
"It's an appropriate time for a change of Government," said Kosaku Inaba, the head of the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry. "I was hoping for a change of Government sometime this year," he added. "This came earlier than expected, but it'll still have a positive effect."
Mr. Murayama said that he had decided over the New Year holiday to resign.
"On New Year's Day, under the blue sky, I looked back at the road I've taken," he said at a news conference. "I thought that I'd pretty much performed the historical role that had been handed to me. Luckily, the omens of economic recovery can be seen, and it's now time to inject fresh blood into the leadership."
By some accounts Mr. Murayama was also upset that he faced opposition in his race for re-election as head of the Socialist Party. And he may have hesitated to lead the country into new elections in which his party is expected to perform poorly, perhaps even to be obliterated.
Although he won little respect for his leadership, Mr. Murayama was widely admired for his decency. He was never accused of corruption or putting on airs, and he always spoke with the accent of his native Oita Prefecture, on the southern island of Kyushu, where he grew up as one of 11 children in a fisherman's family.
Even as Prime Minister, he was utterly unpretentious, so that when he fell sick two years ago at the summit meeting of the Group of Seven industrial democracies, the Japanese Government spokesman casually explained that the Prime Minister "often gets diarrhea."
As Prime Minister, Mr. Murayama not only faced economic stagnation and a banking crisis, but also a catastrophic earthquake in Kobe, a poison gas attack on the subways and the trauma of facing the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II. In August, Mr. Murayama delivered the most sweeping apology any Japanese leader has ever made for the war.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryutaro Hashimoto, model of a new generation of Japanese politicians, seems set to be the next Prime Minister after Tomiichi Murayama's resignation. He got into his car yesterday after a Cabinet meeting. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI (PRIME MIN); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (93%); TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (90%); ICHIRO OZAWA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



131 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Congress Votes to Return Federal Workers to Payroll
Congress voted to put 760,000 Federal workers back on the payroll for three weeks, and to reopen politically visible Government operations from the national parks to the payment of veterans' pensions until September.
Republicans insisted the partial reopening would enable them to refocus public attention away from sad tales about the effect of the 21-day partial Government shutdown, and toward President Clinton and what they called his refusal to propose a Federal budget that would be balanced within seven years. [Page 1.]
 
Furloughed Federal workers in New York whose jobs and paychecks have been stopped since mid-December by the national budget imbroglio will be allowed to delay paying their Consolidated Edison bills and to take out interest-free loans under private industry programs announced in Washington. [8.]
 
S.E.C. Expected to Charge Trader
The S.E.C. will soon bring civil fraud charges against Joseph Jett, the former head of Kidder, Peabody's government securities desk who has been accused of generating $350 million in phantom profits, people familiar with the case say. It is unclear whether the S.E.C. will act against others at Kidder Peabody who were involved in supervising Mr. Jett and his trading. [1.]
 
Commodity Index at 5 1/2-Year High
The Commodity Research Bureau index of 17 commodities, an indication of inflation, surged to a five-and-a-half-year high. Pushed largely by rising futures prices for oil and gold, the index was up 1.29 points, at 246.78, its highest since May 21, 1990. Crude oil prices rose above the psychologically important level of $20 a barrel on reports of supply restrictions, gaining 35 cents, to $20.26 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gold neared $400 an ounce, closing at $396.50, up $1.10. [32.]
 
Dow Reverses Course to Gain 7.59
Stock prices were whipsawed in heavy trading, with shares recovering in the afternoon after the House moved to end the partial Government shutdown. The Dow industrials closed up 7.59 points, at 5,181.43, after slumping more than 40 points earlier. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index eased 0.99 point, to 616.71, and the Nasdaq composite index increased 3.65 points, to 1,033.47. [37.]
 
Yield on Long Bond Rises to 6.04%
The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond moved lower in price, sending its yield up to 6.04 percent from 6.02 percent on Thursday. Analysts cited Republican talk of impeaching Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin. [36.]
 
The dollar fell to 105.27 yen, from 105.30 yen late Thursday, and to 1.4385 German marks, from 1.4430. It recovered from its session lows after the House passed the bill to end the partial Government shutdown. [32.]
 
Phone Rivalry in Connecticut
Connecticut appears to have gone further than any other state in encouraging competition in local telephone service. It ordered Southern New England Telephone to sell competitors access to its network at discounted rates. [24.]
 
Hypermarkets a Hit in Spain
Spanish shoppers are crowding into hypermarkets -- giant discount supermarkets cum general stores -- to the consternation of siesta-prone traditional shopkeepers, who have persuaded their Parliamentary allies to enact legislation limiting the markets' hours on Sundays and holidays. As the number of working women has grown, the stores with their longer hours, have gained. [34.]
 
Chinese Economic Growth Slows
 China reported its economic growth slowed slightly last year, in keeping with the Government's efforts to curb inflation. Economic output increased 10.2 percent, down from a rise of 11.8 percent in 1994, while retail prices rose 14.8 percent, considerably slower than 1994's increase of 21.7 percent. China's trade surplus widened sharply last year, to about $20 billion from $5.3 billion in 1994. [34.]
 
Chinese Shares Surge Abroad
Shares in Chinese companies have been surging on world markets since the year began, in contrast to their weakness in 1995. On Thursday, for example, five of the eight leading percentage gainers on the New York Stock Exchange were Chinese companies, including Brilliance China Automotive and China Tire, which gained sharply. [34.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,181.43 up 7.59
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.04% up 0.02
The Dollar -- 105.27 yen down 0.03

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); S E C (69%); PAYROLL CONGRESS (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: S E C (69%); PAYROLL CONGRESS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CIVIL SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (88%); GOLD MARKETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); LEGISLATION (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); METALS MARKETS (73%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); FUTURES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



132 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rights Group Asserts China Lets Thousands of Orphans Die

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 5

 BODY:
A New York-based human rights organization asserted today that thousands of children have died in China's state-run orphanages from deliberate starvation, medical malpractice and staff abuse.
The group, Human Rights Watch, said it was impossible to obtain "a full accounting of the total number" and of the safety and health of China's orphan population, but based on detailed medical records smuggled out by a doctor from a large Shanghai orphanage, and on a limited set of statistics relating to nationwide orphan mortality, there is cause for great alarm about the fate of countless abandoned infants, most of them girls. 
 "The brutal treatment of orphans in Shanghai, which included deliberate starvation, torture and sexual assault, continued over a period of many years and led to the unnatural deaths of well over 1,000 children between 1986 and 1992 alone," the group concluded in the report issued today.
"This campaign of elimination could be kept secret through the complicity of both higher- and lower-level staff," the report said, "and because the city's Bureau of Civil Affairs, responsible for the orphanage, also runs the crematoria, where starved children's corpses were disposed of with minimum oversight, often even before a death certificate had been filled out by the attending physician."
Nationwide in China, the group said, high mortality figures indicate the strong possibility of a policy of deliberate starvation and severe abuse of orphans, especially girls and mentally and physically handicapped children. Though most of the evidence was gathered from 1988 to 1992, the organization said the policy is probably continuing, and it called on China to open its orphanages to international inspection.
"We have to acknowledge that we can only take this investigation so far," said Robin Munro, the organization's Hong Kong director.
Human Rights Watch based much of its report on the testimony, medical records and photographs taken out of the country by the Chinese physician, Zhang Shuyun, who fled China last year after an unsuccessful campaign to expose abuses at the Shanghai Children's Welfare Institute. The information provided detailed medical histories and case studies on dozens of orphans who died from 1988 to 1992, showing that healthy infants admitted to the Shanghai institution often died of severe malnutrition weeks or months later.
"There is compelling evidence that these astonishing death rates are the result of a deliberate policy to minimize China's population of abandoned children, many of whom have been born in violation of the country's family planning regulations and are sometimes physically or mentally handicapped," the group said in a news release today.
The records show inappropriate changes in medication, the failure to treat severe malnutrition at its onset and blatant medical neglect of life-threatening infections and other conditions, the doctor said.
The doctor's testimony is buttressed by that of Ai Ming, who was taken to the Shanghai orphanage as an abandoned child and spent 20 years there before leaving China last year. In 1992, he secretly photographed the emaciated bodies of dead or dying children who were allegedly chosen for "summary resolution," or death, by staff members seeking to minimize the orphan population.
"The fact is that the evidence is really shocking," said Mr. Munro, who collaborated with Dr. Zhang and Jeff Rigsby, a freelance journalist, in producing the report.
Mr. Munro said that even though the organization already had statistics showing high orphan mortality in early 1995, it was unwilling to confront Chinese officials with the evidence until it issued the report today.
"Given that there has always been unremitting hostility in China's responses to our organization, we didn't feel that they would engage us in any way," Mr. Munro said. "So we decided to put out our version first knowing that they would respond."
Human Rights Watch officials said political considerations played no role in the timing of the report, although it will have an inescapable impact on the deliberations of the United Nations Human Rights Commission in March in Geneva. The United States and European nations have unsuccessfully sought for the past six years to have the commission approve a resolution condemning China's human rights record.
China would like the United States to drop the annual confrontation, but human rights organizations have been pressing the White House to mount another effort this year, especially in light of the continuing harsh treatment of dissidents.
In recent years, thousands of American and European couples have gone to Shanghai, Beijing and other Chinese cities seeking to adopt abandoned Chinese infants from the same orphanages where the abuses are said to be occurring.
According to officials of Adoptive Family of America in Minneapolis, the national clearing house for adoptive parents, the State Department issued 1,369 visas for Chinese children in 1990-94. The group estimates that an additional 1,000 children came over for adoption since then.
The new allegations follow earlier reports of "dying rooms" in Chinese orphanages, where unwanted or handicapped orphans were left to die of malnutrition. The Communist Party leadership has vigorously denied these allegations in each instance and has said it has a commitment to "nourish, treat and teach" orphans.
Today, China's State Council under Prime Minister Li Peng issued a statement saying, "The so-called accusations of 'torture and abuse of disabled children' by the Shanghai Welfare Institute are completely groundless." It said that after a "careful and thorough" investigation, "the relevant department of the Shanghai municipal government denied" the allegations.
The State Council accused Human Rights Watch and the Chinese who collaborated in the investigation of instigating "anger," "hostility" and "political conspiracy" toward China.
Reached by telephone in London, where she is collaborating on a television documentary about her experiences in Shanghai, Dr. Zhang said she decided to leave China with her husband because she and some of her colleagues had "exhausted all our efforts to report what we had discovered in the orphanage and get the problem corrected."
"I had no other alternative but to turn to the human rights organizations," she said, "and now I want all the people in the world who believe that justice prevails to know about this." She said increased adoption of Chinese infants by Western couples was saving only a "small number of children from mistreatment and from being starved to death," adding, "This alone cannot change the Communist Party's policies toward orphanages."
Dr. Zhang's campaign to expose alleged abuses at the orphanage attracted significant support from members of the Shanghai People's Congress, a Communist Party organization, along with several Chinese journalists and lawyers. They joined in pressing for a full investigation of conditions at the Shanghai institution, but their efforts failed in 1992 after party leaders in the city warned that a public airing of charges would open China to criticism from human rights groups.
One of the most vocal of the Shanghai party members who supported Dr. Zhang in 1992 was Hong Dalin, an economist at the Academy of Social Sciences in Shanghai.
Reached by telephone today, Mr. Hong said he could not discuss the investigation because he was no longer a member of the Shanghai People's Congress. Dr. Zhang maintains that all of the local delegates who supported her efforts were subsequently purged from jobs or party positions.
"I hope to call the attention of the whole society to stop the Chinese Government from persecuting the orphans and witnesses who told us what they saw and because of that have lost their jobs or been persecuted in other ways," she said.
The report describes abuses in Shanghai in the 1980's, during the tenure of Communist Party officials who went on to become senior leaders in Beijing, including President Jiang Zemin, who served as Mayor and Communist Party secretary of Shanghai from 1982 to 1989.
Zhu Rongji and Wu Bangguo, now deputy prime ministers under Li Peng, both served in top municipal posts in Shanghai as the investigation unfolded within the party.
The Human Rights Watch report singles out Mr. Wu as chiefly responsible for quashing the investigation, overseeing a campaign of persecution and banning any mention of the accusations in Shanghai's state-run news media. Mr. Wu declined requests to comment.
Huang Jiachun, the deputy director of the Shanghai orphanage, said in a telephone interview that Dr. Zhang's allegations and evidence were "fabricated" and that the Shanghai Supervision Bureau, an investigative arm of the Communist Party, had proved that the charges of abuse and neglect "were wrong." Orphanage officials have invited foreign journalists to visit the orphanage on Monday.
Human Rights Watch said its investigation indicated a "sinister" effort by administrators to improve the outward appearance of the Shanghai orphanage since 1993, and alleged that many infant and handicapped orphans are now being transferred to a heavily guarded Shanghai orphanage and mental institution on an island in the Yangtze River. The group warned that continued abuse of orphans has been reported there.
After spending "nearly a year gathering and analyzing documentary, testimonial and photographic evidence on the treatment of orphans and abandoned children in state institutions," Susan Osnos, the group's communications director, said in a statement accompanying the report, "the material reveals a pattern of cruelty, abuse and malign neglect in child welfare work which now constitutes one of the country's gravest human rights problems."
In June, when a British television network broadcast a documentary titled "The Dying Rooms," the Chinese Embassy in London issued a statement saying, "China has all along attached great importance to the healthy development of children, and is committed to the substantial protection of the rights of children, orphans in particular, by legislative, judicial and administrative means.
"The rights of children, including those of orphans, are protected by the Constitution of the People's Republic of China. Chinese laws prohibit the abuse of orphans and anybody who violates the relevant laws will be brought to justice."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A report by Human Rights Watch released yesterday included photographs and medical details on children said to have been deliberately starved and abused at orphanages in China. Jian Xun, who entered a Shanghai orphanage at the age of about 7, was 11 when he was secretly photographed, above. He died 10 days later. No cause of death was indicated in records of the state-run crematorium. (Ai Ming); Ai Ming who came to the Shanghai orphanage as an abandoned child in 1972, and Zhang Shuyun, a doctor, smuggled out photographs, statistics and medical information used to document conditions there for the Human Rights Watch Report. Both have since left China. (Photographs by Human Rights Watch) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (94%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (94%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ORPHANS AND ORPHANAGES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILD ABUSE HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (91%); STARVATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MALNUTRITION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); EVIDENCE (86%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); TORTURE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK ROBIN MUNRO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



133 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Experts on Crime Warn Of a 'Ticking Time Bomb'

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
Despite recent reports that crime is decreasing, violent crime in the United States is a "ticking time bomb" that will explode in the next few years as the number of teen-agers soars, an organization of prosecutors and law-enforcement experts said in a report issued yesterday.
The group, the Council on Crime in America, painted a bleak portrait of the criminal justice system, maintaining that it remained a "revolving door" that allowed large numbers of violent felons to go free and commit more crime. About a third of all violent crimes in the United States are committed by people who, though technically "under supervision," are on probation, parole or pretrial release, the report said. 
 The council suggested that state governments needed to "reinvent probation and parole" by devoting far more resources to them and, in the process, finding ways that are more restrictive to monitor felons under supervision. According to the report, state governments currently spend only about $200 a year per probationer, compared with $25,000 per prison inmate.
The council is a nonpartisan group headed by William J. Bennett, who served the Reagan Administration as Director of National Drug Control Policy and then as Education Secretary, and Griffin B. Bell, the Attorney General in the Carter Administration. Mr. Bennett spoke at a Washington news conference where the report was issued yesterday, joined by three other members of the council: Lynn Abraham, the District Attorney in Philadelphia; Gale Norton, the Attorney General of Colorado, and Stephen Goldsmith, the Mayor of Indianapolis.
The report was compiled by John J. DiIulio Jr., a professor of politics and public affairs at Princeton University.
Professor DiIulio said he believed recent reports from New York, Houston and a number of other large cities that their crime rates have dropped in the last few years, at least in part because of new, more aggressive tactics by the police. But he cautioned that crime remained "at a historically high level."
Moreover, drawing on the work of James Alan Fox, dean of the College of Criminal Justice at Northeastern University, Professor DiIulio said that given demographic trends, he was concerned that "we are in the lull before the crime storm."
Between now and the year 2005, the number of male 14- to 17-year-olds will increase by 23 percent. This coming jump in the youthful population is worrisome, the professor said, because criminologists have found that while adults are committing less violent crime, the rate of violent crime among teen-agers has skyrocketed over the last decade.
As a result, the report recommended that governments attach much more importance to preventing youths who are at particular risk of becoming criminals from turning into juvenile delinquents.
"As every study now shows," the report said, "after all is said and done the most serious criminals are males who begin committing crimes at a very early age," often before they reach puberty.
The report also offered a scathing indictment of the criminal justice system, suggesting that the first responsibility of government, and one that all Americans can agree on, is to protect its citizens. At that, it said, governments around the country are failing.
The total cost of crime to victims in the United States is now about $450 billion a year, the report said. Further, it said, real crime rates are actually as much as 5.7 times as high as those reported by the police, and each generation of teen-agers since the 1950's has been more violent than the last.
In addition, in one of its most controversial findings, the report concluded that the high cost of building and operating prisons actually saved taxpayers money when compared with the price of crime. For every dollar it costs to keep the typical prisoner behind bars, "society saves $2.80 in the social costs of crime averted," the report said.
"Prison pays," the report concluded, and America can easily afford to build more prisons because "over all, Americans spend barely a penny of every tax dollar on prisons and jails."
But Franklin Zimring, the director of the Earl Warren Legal Institute at the University of California at Berkeley, challenged a number of those economic findings.
Professor Zimring said the figure of $450 billion in total costs of crime was based on hypothetical judgments that juries might award in personal injury cases.
"The problem is," he said, "if you ask what is it worth not to be raped or murdered, you can add up to a figure greater than the gross national product pretty quickly."
Professor Zimring said that inasmuch as the United States had tripled the number of its prisoners in the last 20 years, "there ought to be some extraordinary public savings that these guys can demonstrate." But no one, he said, has been able to find the evidence for it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON CRIME IN AMERICA PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON CRIME IN AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PROBATION AND PAROLE PROBATION (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PAROLE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LAWYERS (78%); FELONIES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); DRUG POLICY (72%); CHILDREN (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX JOHN J DIIULIO JR (62%); FRANKLIN ZIMRING (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



134 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: 'Dikakis' (The Movie)

BYLINE: By Howard Kaminsky; Howard Kaminsky is the co-author, with Susan Kaminsky, of "Talent," a novel.

 BODY:
Recently, a copy of the shooting script of Oliver Stone's next film, "Dukakis," was delivered to my office by a man wearing green fatigues. He seemed to have a slight Cuban accent.
Filmed in total secrecy, this movie, the logical successor to the director's explosive "JFK" and his corrosive "Nixon," reveals the enigmatic former Presidential candidate in a startling and potentially commercial way. Here are excerpts. 
 Exterior. Cornfield in Iowa. Day.
Lots of cameras and press. Michael Dukakis (played by Keanu Reeves) talks to a farmer (Charlton Heston).
Dukakis: Your corn crop looks real good. Real tall.
Farmer: Just so-so this year.
Dukakis: You know in Massachusetts we've had an economic miracle by diversifying. Have you thought of growing something other than corn -- say, Belgian endive?
Farmer: Huh?
Dukakis: Or you could try cilantro. There's mesclun, which I love and --
Farmer: Mescaline? Isn't that a drug?
Dukakis: Bok choy is also a marvelous vegetable. Of course, there's a rising demand for broccoli rape and savoy cabbage.
Farmer: What are you talking about?
Press aide (Wesley Snipes): Governor! We have to go now. We have an event at a piggery in 10 minutes.
Dukakis: And I forgot to mention sorrel and zucchini blossoms. Though cannellini beans are --
As the farmer reaches for his pitchfork, cut to:
Interior. Tank. Day.
Dukakis is strapping on a helmet. The tank's interior is so cramped only three aides can fit inside with him.
Dukakis: This thing is too tight.
Aide No. 1 (Gerard Depardieu): Ici, Gooveneur, try zees one on.
Dukakis: Now that's better.
Aide No. 2 (Demi Moore): I think it might be a little large.
Dukakis: But it's comfortable.
Aide No. 3 (Mickey Rourke): Talk up, Governor. I can barely hear you. The helmet's covering your mouth.
Dukakis: You still think this is the right image for me? What about fighting a Communist hand to hand?
Aide No. 2: That's a risk, Governor. You never finished your self-defense seminar with J. Edgar --
Dukakis: (completely inaudible as helmet slips further down).
Cut to:
Interior. Debate auditorium. Evening.
Vice President George Bush (Charlton Heston, again, this time with lots of makeup) sips nervously at a glass of water. Bernard Shaw (playing himself) prepares to ask the first question.
Shaw: Governor Dukakis, crime is a big concern with voters. What would you do if you saw your wife shoved into a Cuisinart?
Dukakis: I believe that the American people --
Shaw: Vice President Bush, what would you do?
Bush: I would blast away if anyone placed a finger on Barb, though she's a tough bird and could probably handle it by herself. Once when we were clamming in Kennebunkport, she --
Dukakis: Mr. Shaw, could I have another go at that question?
Cut to:
Interior. Boston hotel suite. Night.
Television sets tuned to election coverage. Room crowded with campaign workers (Anthony Hopkins, Joe Pesci, Uta Hagen, Jose Feliciano, Nicholas Cage, Pete Seeger, Emma Thompson, Lainie Kazan).
Dukakis: It looks bad, doesn't it.
John Sasso (Chazz Palminteri): Yeah, real bad.
Dukakis: I see the fingerprints of the C.I.A. all over this. They're working for Bush.
Sasso: What do you mean?
Dukakis: It's payback time.
Sasso: For what?
Dukakis: I had a summer job back in '62 at the Dallas Book Depository. The Trafficante family helped me get it. It paid better than minimum wage. They know I know too much.
Sasso: Look! Bush just took California.
Dukakis: Well, it could have been worse.
Sasso: What do you mean?
Dukakis: Imagine if I had smoked pot or dodged the draft or . . .
Final credits roll, followed by 60-second trailer for Oliver Stone's "Cuomo," coming next year to a theater near you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TITLE: JFK (MOVIE); NIXON (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US); PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); CORN FARMING (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); 

PERSON: KAMINSKY, HOWARD; DUKAKIS, MICHAEL S; STONE, OLIVER; KENNEDY, JOHN; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) JOHN F KENNEDY (93%); RICHARD NIXON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



135 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Likely to Issue Transit Visa for Taiwanese Official

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Despite the risk of touching off new protests from China, the State Department appears likely to issue a transit visa sought by Taiwan's Vice President.
"We have issued such transit visas in the past, and it would certainly not be inconsistent with our unofficial relationship with Taiwan were we to issue one in this case, or any other in the future," said the State Department spokesman, Nicholas Burns. 
 Mr. Burns said at a news briefing today that the State Department was still discussing the visa with Taiwan and would make a decision shortly.
[Taiwan's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Rock Liang, said on Saturday that the United States had issued a transit visa to Vice President Li Yuan-zu, Reuters reported from Taipei.]
The State Department appears to have been urging Vice President Li Yuan-zu to make a refueling stop that would not involve staying overnight in the United States. He wants to fly through Los Angeles to Guatemala to attend the inauguration of its President on Jan. 14. Guatemala is one of several dozen small countries befriended by Taiwan, often with economic aid, to offset the diplomatic isolation imposed by China.
Mr. Li's request highlights once again the delicacy of the United States' relationship with Taiwan, from which it withdrew diplomatic recognition to establish relations with China in 1979. The State Department maintains an office called the American Institute in Taiwan.
Beijing objects to any dealings by Washington with officials from Taiwan, which it regards as belonging to China. Until last year, the United States discouraged even private visits by Taiwanese officials.
Opposition to Mr. Li's proposed stopover was expressed on Thursday in Beijing by Chen Jian, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, who asked the United States "not to do things that would harm the relations of the two countries" or "hurt the feelings of the Chinese people."
"We are resolutely opposed to the Taiwan authorities using so-called transit diplomacy and other means to engage in activities in countries which have diplomatic relations with China," Mr. Chen said.
But the Taiwan Foreign Minister spokesman, Rock Liang, was quoted by Reuters as saying that "the U.S. policy states that it will grant transit visas" to Taiwan officials.
The Clinton Administration consented last year to such a policy, which is now being tested by Taiwan, since Mr. Li's official aircraft could in theory also refuel in Mexico.
China raised vociferous objections when the Administration granted a visitor's visa last June to Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, so he could travel to his class reunion at Cornell University. Its retaliation included initial refusal to accept a new United States Ambassador, Jim Sasser, a former Democratic Senator. Mr. Sasser is to be sworn in here next week and will leave for China this month.
The visa issue injected a chill into a fragile relationship already riven by disputes between Washington and Beijing over trade, China's suppression of human rights and its sale of nuclear technology to other nations. Beijing's anger lingered even during President Clinton's meeting with the Chinese President, Jiang Zemin, in New York in October.
Mr. Burns acknowledged "there is a sensitivity here" and said the State Department wanted to consider all the issues before making its decision on the visa. But he also played down its significance, noting that Mr. Li had been given a transit visa once before.
"It should not be a big deal for U.S.-China relations, and it should be seen for what it is, if this visa is issued," Mr. Burns said today, "and that is the mere transit of an authority from Taiwan to the inauguration of a president in this hemisphere."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); GUATEMALA (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); STATE DEPARTMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT STATE DEPARTMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); GUATEMALA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; LI YUAN-ZI (VICE PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



136 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS VOTES TO RETURN 760,000 TO FEDERAL PAYROLL AND RESUME SOME SERVICES;
Republicans' Boomerang

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Saturday, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Republicans in Congress insisted on Friday that by abruptly ending a Government shutdown, they were only regrouping their forces for a long and dug-in battle with the White House over how to balance the Federal budget.
But outside Congress, the party's war with President Clinton over whether to balance the budget seemed for the first time to be in retreat, much in the manner of Napoleon's ill-fated assault on Moscow. 
 Strong in numbers and steeped in their principles, Republicans in the House nevertheless looked as though they had seriously overreached after three full weeks of using a crippled Government to pressure Mr. Clinton into a budget deal.
House leaders argued, credibly in the view of many, that the White House had no real reason to make serious concessions in budget talks if the President could veto Republican spending bills with impunity. But by the end, the shutdown had boomeranged into a powerful force against Republicans, who were seen as wreaking havoc on Federal workers and innocent citizens to score political points.
And Mr. Clinton's stubborn refusal to cut a deal, seen all last year as evidence of political weakness, suddenly began to look like courage in the face of an enemy siege.
"We'll make the case that the Republican view is pretty harsh," the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said on Friday of the Congressional budget plans. "We've just had a pretty vivid demonstration of just how harsh it can be."
Republicans insisted on Thursday and again on Friday that their cause had suffered no serious setback. With an election year still ahead, they may be right. But even many Republican leaders agreed that in this struggle, they had played a strong hand poorly and that Mr. Clinton had played a weak one exceedingly well.
Democratic accusations that Republican spending plans were an "extremist" attack on the poor and elderly did not gain much purchase until this winter. It was Speaker Newt Gingrich who, in delivering a string of intemperate remarks and complaining of being snubbed on Air Force One, helped put a human face on his opponents' attacks.
Mr. Gingrich lowered his profile. But Democrats shifted their focus on the House's even more fiery freshman class, which applauded the shutdown and showed no inclination to move out of the spotlight.
Against this backdrop, Mr. Clinton has sought with some success to play the role of reasonable grown-up. After offering a budget in February that assumed $200 billion-a-year deficits -- and taking a severe pounding -- he has edged closer and closer to his opponents' fiscal positions.
Since budget talks began in November, he has embraced the concept of a seven-year balanced budget, has effectively endorsed the Congressional economic projections used by Republican fiscal experts, and has said repeatedly that he believes that reasoned debate will produce a compromise spending plan. He has talked endlessly with Republican leaders and bargained with them over dinner in the White House residence.
But in those three months, Mr. Clinton has yet to produce a written budget that uses the Congress's economic projections and reaches balance by 2002. By not doing so, he has kept Republican spending proposals the focus of political attack and has reassured his party's liberal base.
And he has incensed Republicans. By the time the budget talks hit their latest wall, on Tuesday, the White House and Republicans had agreed on $141 billion of the $661 billion in savings that Congress said was needed to reach fiscal balance in seven years.
But $81 billion of that was earmarked almost a month ago, when the most recent round of bargaining began, and the other $60 billion was savings in interest costs that both sides assumed would result from a compromise budget.
Republicans said the White House had refused to accept any further savings in Medicare or Medicaid spending -- the two big-ticket items on the table -- beyond those it had already publicly proposed last year. Nor, they said, would the White House accept any further structural changes in Medicare beyond those it had proposed. Mr. Clinton was open to a cut in the capital-gains tax, a Republican icon, but remained far from the party's other tax proposals.
It is not stretching matters to say that most Republican leaders had concluded this week, rightly or wrongly, that the White House had agreed to talks not for the purpose of reaching a compromise, but for honing its own political positions and attacks on the Republican plan.
"No way can we concede to everything they want on the spending side, have them give us half of what we want on the tax side, and call it progress," a senior Republican aide involved in the talks said on Friday.
Mr. Gingrich said Friday that Republicans in the Househad "no faith that the President is negotiating in good faith" and "no faith that the President will in fact ever provide a balanced budget." Privately, some Republicans involved in the talks said that beyond giving each side a chance to present its positions, the meetings had mostly been unproductive.
Democrats retorted that in the last major budget crisis in 1990, President Bush met with Democratic negotiators for perhaps 15 minutes, whereas Mr. Clinton had spent untold hours in talks with House and Senate members. Any suggestion that the President is bamboozling Republicans, the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, said on Friday, is "abhorrent."
Regardless, the talks will go on, in part because neither side can back out without appearing irresponsible. The legislation that Congress passed on Friday, and which President Clinton signed just after midnight, will give the parties three weeks of breathing space during which furloughed Federal workers will go back to their jobs at full pay. The legislation also provides money for politically sensitive programs through 1996.
Mr. Clinton can strike a deal, averting another crisis around the time of his State of the Union speech later this month, or, Republicans say, he can reject any deal and take responsibility for another shutdown. "If he wants to spend the entire year arguing about a balanced budget," said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, a member of the Republican leadership, "we're certainly going to give him that opportunity."
In this way, Republicans are trying to shift public outrage away from the shutdown and back to the balanced-budget plan, where they believe they hold the high ground.

GRAPHIC: Photos: House Speaker Newt Gingrich leaving a Republican meeting on the budget crisis yesterday. (Reuters); President Clinton shared a laugh at a Washington Church with Meals on Wheels participants. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIA (55%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); PUBLIC OPINION BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VETO (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



137 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS VOTES TO RETURN 760,000 TO FEDERAL PAYROLL AND RESUME SOME SERVICES;
STEP IS TEMPORARY

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Saturday, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Congress voted on Friday to put 760,000 Federal workers back on the payroll for three weeks and to resume politically visible Government operations, from the national parks and medical research to payments for veterans' pensions, through September, and President Clinton approved the temporary end of the shutdown just after midnight.
Congress approved three bills returning workers to their jobs and reopening closed programs to varying degrees. The White House said early today that Mr. Clinton had signed legislation to finance certain Federal programs, to return furloughed Federal employees to work at full pay and to reinstate pay for those employees who remained at their jobs. 
 The vote came after Representative John R. Kasich, the Ohio Republican and chairman of the House Budget Committee, and other Republican leaders had spent much of Friday morning convincing dubious Republican freshmen that they were not giving up a vital advantage, which some had said was their only tool to force concessions from President Clinton. "We're not anywhere near raising a white flag," Mr. Kasich said.
While 12 Republican freshmen voted no, 60 voted yes and one did not vote. The measure was passed by the House, 401 to 17. The Senate passed the measure on a voice vote.
Republicans insisted that the partial reopening would enable them to refocus public attention away from sad stories about the effects of the 21-day partial Government shutdown, and toward President Clinton and what they called his refusal to propose a Federal budget that would be balanced within seven years.
Before heading for the White House and a meeting with the President, Speaker Newt Gingrich told reporters, "Frankly, the House Republican Conference has no faith that the President is negotiating in good faith and has no faith that the President will in fact ever provide a balanced budget."
But after the meeting, Mr. Gingrich said he was now hopeful that the President would propose a balanced budget this weekend. Meetings were scheduled for today and Sunday. A member of the Republican leadership who declined to be identified said that the White House had indeed promised to make a balanced budget proposal. He said the Republicans took it seriously but "we've been through these false labor pains before."
White House officials said that while discussions were under way about how to assemble a balanced budget package, the President was not planning to lay something new on the table. Officials said it was possible that a package already put together by Senate Democrats could be used for this purpose.
In a move that could edge the White House closer to a balanced budget agreement, a coalition of Republicans and conservative Democrats announced late Friday night that they had struck a deal on Medicare. Under the tentative deal, Medicare savings would total $168 billion over seven years.
That figure falls about midway between the Medicare savings that have been proposed by President Clinton and by the Republicans in Congress. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the Republican leadership's proposal would save $226 billion and that the Administration's proposal would save $97 billion.
But the Democratic leaders in Congress have complained that both of those saving targets are too steep and have proposed a plan to save $90 billion.
Mr. Kasich said 47 Democrats had lined up behind the plan he announced Friday night. He said that he had discussed the idea with Mr. Gingrich and that the House Republican leadership would also support the plan.
Among the other popular Government offices or activities either reopened, or protected from being closed, under the measure approved by Congress are Meals on Wheels, state unemployment insurance offices, railroad retirement and veterans pensions, the Smithsonian Institution, passport and visa offices, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Federal Courts' administration, the National Institutes of Health, Medicaid payments to states, the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Those offices and activities will continue through Sept. 30, while Aid to Families with Dependent Children will be authorized only until March 15, as will foster care and adoption grants.
But only money for salaries will be available for departments and agencies whose annual appropriations measures have either been vetoed or not yet passed by Congress, like the Department of Labor and the Environmental Protection Agency. In those cases, thousands of workers will come to the office but will be unable to do their work because there will be no money to issue grants or perform inspections or do almost anything else.
Democrats complained that college grants, housing loans, cancer research and other vital activities would not be restored under the bill, which was offered by Representative Robert L. Livingston, the Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
The housing loans were taken care of when the House passed a second spending bill on Friday night that included some measures overlooked the first time, from the Federal Bureau of Investigation to spending for the Gallaudet School for the Deaf.
The Senate went along with that bill even before the House did, agreeing by unanimous consent that once it arrived from the House, it would be "deemed passed." Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, said, "We want to make sure that the money is available for whatever I sent up."
As part of the Republican exercise to concentrate attention on the balanced budget issue, both Houses also passed a brief stopgap spending bill for the entire Government. It would take effect only if Mr. Clinton offered a seven-year balanced budget plan that was judged to be effective by the Congressional Budget Office.
It would last until Jan. 26. Republicans said that date had been chosen so the President could not claim they were to blame if the Government was shut when he delivers his State of the Union Message on Jan. 23.
The 480,000 unpaid Federal workers in departments and agencies without appropriations -- but who have been ordered to work because their duties were deemed essential to public health -- would be paid from Dec. 16 to Jan. 26, as would the 280,000 employees now on furlough.
Mr. Gingrich told a House caucus on Thursday night that he felt it was unfair to put Federal workers in the middle of the budget battle. But his original proposal, to allow them to be paid through March 15, met strong opposition from junior members, who said that closing the Government was the only leverage they had to use against Mr. Clinton.
Late Thursday night, Mr. Gingrich decided to go forward on a more limited approach, allowing pay until Jan. 26. He did not consult with the unhappy freshmen about his new plan until this morning, but most of them went along with the three-week measure anyhow.
The opposition came from House Democrats. Representative Joseph Moakley of Massachusetts, the senior Democrat on the Rules Committee, called the bill "absurd" because it provided no money for workers to do their jobs.
Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, said, "The zealots in the House Republican caucus have retreated but they are still shooting hostages as they withdraw." He complained that contractors would not get paid, cancer research grants would not be made, and students would not get their scholarships.
Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn said that the best way to implement that approach would be: "Let's pay Newt Gingrich and the Republican freshmen, and then not let them do anything."
But Republicans said Mr. Clinton held the key to reopening the Government fully. "We need just one President to keep his word," said Representative Steve Gunderson of Wisconsin, "to offer a balanced budget."
Federal workers did not react gratefully. For example, Tim Krieger, a program director for the Corporation for National Service in Chicago, said that if he could not travel or make long-distance phone calls, "It's like telling firemen, 'You can go back to the firehouse, but you can't take the truck out to fight any fires.' It's imbecilic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The voting in the Congress yesterday on budget legislation was intently watched by people like Valdas V. Adamkus, regional administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in Chicago, who has been running the office with just a deputy since the furloughs began. (Associated Press) (pg. 8)
 
Chart: "Highlights of the Bill" shows which agencies will return to work and for how long. (House Appropriations Committee) (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN KASICH (74%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



138 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: The Way to a Budget Compromise

 BODY:
Now that Government offices will be open in a fashion, perhaps Congress and the White House can resolve the issue that has shut down Government twice already and threatens to do so again in three weeks: a seven-year deficit-reduction plan. The two sides are not nearly as far apart as their election-year posturing would pretend. There is one principled difference -- whether Medicaid should be Federally guaranteed -- but the other disagreements are overwhelmingly rhetorical.
The best way to bring the two sides together has been proposed by conservative, "Blue Dog" Democrats. Their plan eliminates the deficit by eschewing tax cuts and applying that savings to softening the blows to Medicaid and other poverty programs. The Blue Dogs preserve Federal entitlements to welfare, Medicaid and food stamps. The plan, sadly, cannot pass the House because House leaders demand a tax cut. 
 The next best alternative comes from a bipartisan Senate group, led by John Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, and John Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana. It achieves the essential goal of the Republicans -- a balanced budget by 2002 based on Congressional scorekeeping. It also cuts taxes by $130 billion, which is $130 billion too much but only half of what the House Republicans are demanding. The plan's Medicare cuts fall about halfway between President Clinton's and the G.O.P.'s. Its Medicaid cuts fall $54 billion short of the G.O.P.'s but are only $25 billion more than Mr. Clinton's. Its cuts in discretionary spending are only $8 billion more than the President's. These are harsh but not horrific.
There are parts of the Chafee-Breaux plan that are hard to swallow. It would whack almost $60 billion out of welfare, food stamps and other poverty programs. That is $17 billion more than the huge cuts proposed by the President. It also would adjust how much the Government raises Social Security payments and lowers income taxes to compensate for inflation, using a formula that goes beyond what Government statisticians say is warranted and hits hard at the poor.
The Chafee-Breaux plan, then, is barely tolerable. The danger is that Congress will start with its cuts and turn them meaner -- taxing the wealthy less and trimming spending on the poor. Too harsh a compromise would warrant a Presidential veto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (93%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (93%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MEDICAID (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); 

PERSON: CHAFFEE, JOHN (SEN); BREAUX, JOHN B (SEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996



139 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Turbulence

BYLINE: By Stephen D. Solomon; Stephen D. Solomon, an associate professor at New York University, has written frequently about the airline industry.

 BODY:

HARD LANDING
The Epic Contest for Power and Profits That Plunged the Airlines Into Chaos.
By Thomas Petzinger Jr.
Illustrated. 520 pp. New York:
Times Business Books/Random House. $30.
AS the invective grew louder between labor and management at Eastern Airlines in 1983, Frank Borman heard a frightening rumor. Mr. Borman, the chief executive of Eastern and former astronaut, received information that someone had put out a contract on his life. The F.B.I. advised Mr. Borman to wear a bulletproof vest. He also strapped a 9-millimeter automatic pistol to his ankle and began a crash course in how to use it. Over the next few days, he went everywhere with a young man whose presence alongside him, he was told, would deter a mob hit. 
 Mr. Borman emerged untouched. But Eastern Airlines, cursed by vicious labor-management strife, continued its rapid plunge until it disappeared from the radar screen altogether. The turmoil, started by deregulation in 1978, claimed other great names like Pan Am and Braniff. Free to compete for the first time, the airlines lost $10.5 billion in the early 1990's, more than the industry's cumulative profits since the Wright brothers flew at Kitty Hawk. Along the way average fares fell, most measures of service deteriorated and many passengers accustomed to more royal treatment got only a bag of peanuts and a scowl from angry airline employees.
How this massive upheaval came about is the subject of "Hard Landing," by Thomas Petzinger Jr., a veteran reporter at The Wall Street Journal. Mr. Petzinger spins a colorful tale of robber barons on the loose and of labor-management wars so destructive that they needlessly wiped out tens of thousands of jobs. Even the baseball strike of two summers ago pales in comparison. "Hard Landing" is a case study that should sober up any hotheads who still think that companies and jobs can thrive in an atmosphere of poisonous labor-management relations.
Mr. Petzinger correctly points out that the airline industry's troubles were sown during four decades of fare and route regulation. Because airlines couldn't compete on fares, they competed on service. American Airlines put Wurlitzer pianos in its jumbo jet lounges. United responded with wine tastings and guitarists. Southwest Airlines, giving away free liquor with the purchase of a ticket, for a time became the largest Chivas Regal distributor in Texas. With Washington guaranteeing profits, airlines had little incentive to hold down operating expenses. The cost of labor exploded to well above market levels.
As the regulatory era came to a close, it was clear that the partying was over. New airlines like People Express, blessed by low operating costs, forced the major carriers to demand wage reductions and work rule changes from their employees. When they said no, the bickering began. "This is a nasty, rotten business," Robert Crandall, chairman of American Airlines, said. Mr. Petzinger shows just how nasty and rotten, taking readers behind the scenes to see the conniving and the stubbornness of both airline executives and union leaders that made it impossible for many carriers to survive.
Mr. Petzinger seems evenhanded in parceling out the blame -- of which there is plenty to go around. Unions representing the pilots, mechanics and flight attendants seemed incapable of grasping the industry's new financial realities. Pilots making well into the six figures worked so few hours that they had time for second careers, and fought to keep it that way. Bitter strikes led to bankruptcies, and work slowdowns drove away thousands of passengers. Airline executives weren't candidates for sainthood, either. Frank Lorenzo, the most hated man in the industry, broke the unions at Continental Airlines by declaring bankruptcy and imposing new wage scales on employees, sometimes half or less of their previous pay. When he bought the unionized Eastern Airlines, he conveniently transferred some of Eastern's most valuable assets to his other airline companies, paying Eastern a fraction of the assets' worth. In the end, Mr. Lorenzo walked away with $30 million despite having performed the business equivalent of a hat trick: he took three separate airline companies into bankruptcy.
While Mr. Petzinger's fly-on-the-wall reporting is always engaging, he could have provided stronger analysis of the financial and economic factors that affected the industry. Deteriorating balance sheets and returns on investment don't get enough attention here. Why was Wall Street willing to continue financing such conspicuous losers? Why were shareholders so quiet?
As bad as it was, labor-management strife doesn't tell the whole story. Mr. Petzinger could have provided a more well-rounded story by a closer analysis of a fundamental economic problem that the industry has never solved: too many seats and too few passengers. Led by Mr. Crandall's American, the industry went on a decade-long binge of buying big jets, adding seats at a pace far exceeding demand. Mr. Crandall alone spent more than $20 billion on expansion, an investment that returned almost nothing to shareholders and that many analysts consider a failure. Mr. Petzinger lets him off too easy.
If there is a hero among this gang that couldn't fly straight, it is Herbert Kelleher, the founder and chief executive of Southwest Airlines. Southwest has enjoyed both profits and labor peace even in the worst years for the industry. While many of his competitors expanded as quickly as possible and built expensive hubs, Mr. Kelleher moved at a deliberate pace, developed a point-to-point route system, kept expenses low and maintained good relations with employees. Southwest's pilots bought Mr. Kelleher a chrome-plated Harley-Davidson.
Always a showman, Mr. Kelleher kept his employees laughing. He settled a minor trademark infringement dispute in 1992 by arm-wrestling his adversary. He lost -- and was carried off on a stretcher with an intravenous line connected to a bottle of Wild Turkey. According to Mr. Petzinger, it was one of the few good laughs heard in the industry during the last 17 years.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HARD LANDING (BOOK)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (73%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LITERATURE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); BASEBALL (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (65%); CASE STUDIES (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SOLOMON, STEPHEN D; PETZINGER, THOMAS JR FRANK BORMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



140 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7327 words

HEADLINE: What Immigration Crisis?

BYLINE: By Richard Rayner; Richard Rayner is a frequent contributor to the Magazine. His last article was on Bruce Willis in May. He was assisted in this article by an interpreter, Jose Pallares.

 BODY:
MARIA T. BITES HER NAILS. AT 31, WITH FIVE CHILDREN, she's one of the 1.7 million immigrants now estimated to be living in California illegally. She speaks almost no English, even though she has been in America for more than eight years. In her clean and sparsely furnished living room, her kids -- Gustavo (11), Mario (7), Maribel (6), Cesar (5) and Joan (4) -- are in front of the TV, laughing first at "Home Improvement," then at "The Simpsons."
The refrigerator is almost empty; it contains only a gallon of milk, some Kool-Aid, a few tortillas. Her life is frugal, a devotion to the future of her children. Though there are three bedrooms in the apartment, all five sleep with her because she hates to let them out of her sight. Since she has no car and can rarely afford the bus, the family walks everywhere, Maria leading the way like Mother Goose with the kids behind toting Batman and Pocahontas backpacks. On a typical day she walks six miles, shuttling between her apartment and the local school in Van Nuys. 
 In Guadalajara her husband was a thief, a drug addict, a small-time street hustler who with friends jumped some guy and, during the robbery, knocked out his teeth. The man's friends came looking for him with a machete. They chopped off his hands. One was beyond repair, but doctors were able to sew back the other. He also sustained injuries to the head and neck. His brain was damaged, Maria says, and he began to abuse and beat her.
For her, as for so many, the decision to make the journey to El Norte was the beginning of an epic. Gustavo was 3 at the time, Mario was 8 months, and she was 5 months pregnant with Maribel. Maria crossed the border with the help of a coyote, a guide, but when she arrived in San Diego the woman who'd paid for her brothers' crossings didn't have any money this time. Maria was kept a slave in the coyote's house. He beat and raped her until, after three months, her brother raised $300, half the sum agreed for the crossing, and the coyote let her go.
She stayed with her brother in Los Angeles, the Pico-Union district, and it was here that Maribel was born. "I'd come out of labor and I was staring at the wall and I said to my sister-in-law, 'Look, she's there.' She said, 'Who?' I said, 'The Virgin Mary.' She said: 'There's nothing there. You're crazy.' But it was true all the same. For eight months the Virgin would appear to me. She made me strong.
"At first I had to beg for food. Sometimes I did day work for Latinos, for $10 a day. I'd take off into the city on the bus, not really knowing where I was going, and get off to beg on the streets. I'm ashamed of that."
Slowly, she clawed her way up. It is in so many ways a classic immigrant's tale, although she has been the beneficiary not just of her own drive, but also of something equally important -- welfare. She's here illegally, with fake ID, and she doesn't work. She receives $723 in cash and $226 in food stamps, and Section 8 takes care of more than two-thirds of her $1,000 rent (high, because landlords know illegals won't complain).
It's a myth, however, that anyone can come over the border and start milking the system. Only Medicaid and limited food benefits are available to illegal immigrants, and most don't apply for these because they fear detection by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Maria T. gets what she does because of her children who were born here.
Local, state and Federal Governments spend about $11.8 billion a year educating legal and illegal immigrant children, according to the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan research organization, compared with the $227 billion spent to educate all children. Generally, this is more than offset by the taxes that legal and illegal immigrant families pay -- $70.3 billion a year, the Urban Institute says -- while receiving $42.9 billion in total services. (Illegal immigrants pay $7 billion in taxes.)
Maria T. thus represents the nightmare scenario -- an illegal immigrant who's sucking money from the system and putting nothing back. Even so, it's not clear that she's a villain. She hopes one day to go to work herself. She hopes and believes that her bright children will become outstanding. She believes in America, as the man said at the beginning of "The Godfather," though it's the Government that is helping her out, not Marlon Brando.
MY WIFE, FROM FINLAND, HAS A GREEN card; I'm English, in the process of applying for one myself; our son was born an American. When we moved into our house in Venice, Calif., one of our neighbors, an elderly white woman with whom we're now very friendly, said, "No Americans live on our block anymore."
Maybe she had the jitters about new neighbors, or maybe there was something else at play. I knew that her father had been born in Germany and had journeyed to Detroit, where she was born. I wanted to say that logically, therefore, our son is every bit as American as she is. But in any debate about nationality, I know, logic fades fast.
My own father once traced our family tree back to 1066, when one Baron de Rainier sailed from Normandy to help conquer England. Since then, give or take the occasional Irish excursion, my progenitors were all born within a hundred or so miles of one another in the north of England. So, when I came to America and found that nearly everyone was from somewhere else if they stepped back a generation or two, I found myself thrilled and oddly at ease. It explained America's drive, its generosity and up-for-anything energy. As Melville wrote, "We are not a nation, so much as a world."
Not everyone sees things this way. Many have drawn a line behind which they stand, true Americans, fearful and angry about the erosion of their identity. With unintended irony they talk of themselves as "natives." On immigration, they argue that enough is enough, that the borders must be secured and a drastic cutback enforced. Those who are allowed in, they say, must be professionals or skilled workers because the others -- mobs of unskilled, third-world peasants -- drain resources and take jobs. They cost billions and dilute the gene pool. They are mutating the face of America.
California itself, for instance, passed an anti-immigrant measure with scary ease. In last year's state election nearly 60 percent voted for Proposition 187, the so-called Save-Our-State initiative, which sought to deny public education, nonemergency health care and welfare to illegal immigrants. By linking illegal immigration to joblessness and crime, Pete Wilson revived his flagging gubernatorial campaign and was swept back into office, even though, as an exit poll showed, few who voted for 187 actually thought it was going to work.
Wilson was avid for votes and a reaction and he got both. Many legal Latinos, fearful of deportation, refused to go near schools and emergency rooms. There was immigrant bashing and hate mail. Since the Republicans took control of the United States House and Senate, moreover, it seems as though all Washington has been grandstanding on the issue. Dozens of immigration-related bills were introduced last term, including two major vehicles, one from Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming and the other from Representative Lamar Smith of Texas. At some point, the two bills could be rolled into one. Simpson aims to have the new law in force by October 1996. This is all happening at warp speed.
Many of the bills are mean-spirited and, to a lot of observers, wrongheaded. One would impose a tax on employers who hire legal aliens. Others would deny citizenship to children born in this country to illegals, or eliminate some categories of family immigration. The anti-immigration forces have done an excellent job of creating an atmosphere of crisis in which the debate has focused on how to slow the "flood" of immigration, legal and illegal. But illegal immigration should not be folded over to scapegoat legals as well. The real point is that there isn't any immigration crisis.
Solving the problems we do have will require more than hastily drawn legislation. Demetrios Papademetriou, an immigration expert with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, says: "Polls tell us that Americans are worried about illegal immigration. Good. Let's take care of it. Polls say people think some employers are too unscrupulous with immigrants. Let's take care of that, too. But this requires patience and wisdom. Congress has neither at this time."
"THE PERCEPTION IS THAT IMMIGRATION IS OUT of control," says Joel Kotkin, author of "Tribes" and a fellow at the Pepperdine University Institute of Public Policy. "It isn't. If you say to most Americans, 'We have 800,000 legal immigrants a year,' they're going to reply, 'Hey, that's not so bad.' And this is the truth of the situation. But it's somehow been demonized so that people think there are millions coming across the border."
The Border Patrol logged 1,094,718 apprehensions in 1994. On page 26 of his "Alien Nation," a leading restrictionist, Peter Brimelow, writes that legal immigration is "overwhelmed by an estimated 2 to 3 million illegal entries into the country in every recent year." He goes on to note, correctly, that many of these illegal entrants go back home, and that some trundle to and fro across the border every day. By page 33, however, he's writing "a remarkable 2 to 3 million illegal immigrants may have succeeded in entering the country in 1993."
Within seven pages illegal entrants have mysteriously become illegal immigrants, attached to that hyperbolic two to three million, a figure vigorously disputed by I.N.S., which regards as preposterous the idea that for every border crosser caught another three get away. Indeed, throughout the 1970's there were some eight million border apprehensions and during that time, according to the best estimates of I.N.S., about one million illegals came to reside -- seven apprehensions per illegal immigrant.
So how many illegals are coming in and staying each year now? The Urban Institute says 250,000 to 300,000. The Center for Immigration Studies, a conservative research group, says 400,000, while I.N.S. says 300,000. The Census Bureau until recently guessed 200,000 to 400,000; now it agrees with the I.N.S.
The 300,000 figure is considered firm because it was based on the years following 1988, when the I.N.S. started to process the genuinely reliable data it amassed following the 1986 amnesty for illegals. Too much of this and the eyes glaze over, but the gist is, the further you get from 1988, the flakier the statistics become. And the argument over the number of illegal immigrants is nothing compared with the furor over how much they cost.
The fact is, no one knows for sure; there is simply no up-to-date research. "The issue has caught political fire," Papademetriou says. "But serious academics haven't got out into the field yet. They're reluctant to play into the hands of the politicians."
Immigration is in the spotlight not because of money but because it so impinges on issues like race, the role of government, national identity and change. Name an issue and you can hook it to immigration. One side looks at crime, failing schools and soaring welfare spending and sees too many immigrants. The other sees America, the greatest nation on earth, built on the backs of immigrants and still benefiting enormously from the brains, energy and determination (not to speak of low wages) of the next generation of newcomers. Right now the debate is more emotional than informed. It's all temper tantrums and red-hot sound bites.
WHEN PEOPLE COMPLAIN ABOUT IMmigration, about the alien "flood," it's Latin Americans they mean, who from their entry points in California and Miami are fanning out through the country. There's concern about the small minority who are criminals, and the seeming reluctance of these people to learn English. Mixed in with this is the prejudice summarized by D. H. Lawrence in "Mornings in Mexico." They are other, he concluded, they are dirty, I don't trust them and they stink. There's also the suggestion that Latinos are lazy, though everywhere you look in Los Angeles you see evidence to the contrary.
Until recently the rough understanding was that, though you may have arrived illegally, if you manage to stay you get legal. There's a desire to thwart that now, and an unanticipated effect of Proposition 187 was a record surge in citizenship applications. The Los Angeles district alone receives about 25,000 a month. This scramble for certainty of status prompted the I.N.S. to process 90,000 applications in 1994 and 125,000 in 1995, with 250,000 projected for 1996.
On a hot September morning I visit the basement of the Federal Building on Los Angeles Street to sit in on preliminary interviews. Applicants must show that they have been law-abiding, tax-paying residents for at least seven years. They must be able to read, write and speak English, and correctly answer a substantial proportion of a questionnaire about current affairs, history and constitutional principles. In a little booth an I.N.S. interviewer asks Maria Elena Ortiz, a Mexican-born resident for 17 years, who the Mayor of Los Angeles is.
She doesn't know.
"What is the highest law of the land?"
"The Ten Amendments," she says.
"What is the capital of the United States?"
"Sacramento."
"No," says the interviewer. "The capital of the United States."
She's unsure.
"Where does Bill Clinton live?"
"Washington, D.C.?" she answers, still doubtful.
The next day, at the downtown convention center, 3,500 applicants who have successfully negotiated this interview and all the other I.N.S. hurdles attend a ceremony to become citizens. It's a feel-good affair, serious business mixed with Super Bowl hoopla and a celebration of the immigration myth. A guy from I.N.S. in a crisp and collarless white shirt stands up to sing "The Star-Spangled Banner." An MTV-style video shows a farmer in the Kansas wheat fields, the Dallas Cowboys, a squadron of F-16's booming out above the Rockies. Federal Judge Dickran Tevrizian talks of the courage it takes to leave one's birthplace and fulfill one's dreams. "We Americans by birth can learn from you Americans by choice," he says. He then requests that these particular new citizens not go out and do graffiti. When the judge finishes, 3,500 fists, 40 percent of them Mexican until just a few moments before, raise high the Stars and Stripes and wave.
MARIA T. TAKES ME TO MEET SOME FRIENDS WHO live in the poor, densely populated, northeast section of the San Fernando Valley. I'm standing on the sidewalk when a skinny white guy comes up, offering a Makita power drill, still in its box, for $20. The street is filled with drug dealers. Behind a locked gate, the building's 32 apartments are cramped around a tiny concrete courtyard where all the young kids play. Two of the kids, maybe 4 or 5 years old, get excited when they hear the tinny music of an ice-cream truck and rush out toward the street. Beyond the gate it's gangsters and rap, urban America; inside you could be in Mexico.
Agustin C. and Maria V. have four children: Vanessa, Antonio, Alejandro and Catalina. Vanessa, the oldest, 7, is Maria's child by a previous relationship; all were born here. Agustin has a genuine green card valid until 2004, while Maria is here illegally. Her first fake green card, which cost $50, almost got her caught. The second was a much better buy at $150. She shows it to me proudly. "I've already got four jobs with this one."
They pay $600 a month for a ground-floor apartment with two bedrooms, one bath and a small living room with kitchen attached. The TV is tuned, as always, to Channel 32, a Spanish-language station. The brown shag carpet is littered with crayons, empty soda cans and broken tortilla chips. Two fans -- one on the floor, the other above the dining table -- stir the stagnant air, while flies circle an open trash bin in the center of the room. A cockroach skitters down the wall.
"I came to America to work," says Agustin. "Before, I knew only what I was told, that it was easy to earn money. They said you could sweep dollars up from the streets like leaves."
With sly humor, Maria says: "And now it's true, he does -- in a way. He's a gardener."
Agustin's smile shows a shattered top jaw, front teeth victims of a soccer game. He works for a landscape company that tends the lawns, sprinklers and hedges of corporate office buildings throughout the valley. He gets up at 6 in the morning and often doesn't return until 7 at night. For this he receives $300 a week, though his boss has just agreed to a raise to $350. His ultimate goal is citizenship for both him and Maria, though he says, "I'm proud to be Mexican."
He came to America in 1986, at age 20. By then he'd worked construction all over Mexico and had unloaded fish at Vera Cruz. He was already married, with two children, when -- he's reluctant to admit -- he discovered that his wife was cheating on him. His mother-in-law, who now looks after those two children, helped him with money for the journey.
Agustin is a hustler, an adventurous survivor. His grandfather died at 132, he says. When I express skepticism he springs out of his chair and hurries into the bedroom, returning with a cheap nylon gym bag, which, he says, contains his grandfather's birth certificate. Rooting around inside, however, he can't find it. Instead, with pride he shows me the stub of the first paycheck he received in America; it's for $105.26, for a 40-hour week. He goes on pulling more and more stuff out of the bag. He has kept not just that first check stub, but every other one since. The bag holds nothing less than the history of his life here -- letters and postcards from back home, copies of his tax returns and dealings with I.N.S. and the various fake ID's he used before getting his legal green card. He did all the paperwork himself. He has friends who used lawyers, he says, but they ended up getting cheated.
I recall a visit to Room 1001 of the downtown Federal building to pick up my work permit and "advanced parole status" (preliminary green card approval). Room 1001 proved not to be a room at all but a huge induction and inquiry area in which 1,500 people stood in line or waited for their names to be called. More stood outside, around half the block, trying to get in. The crowd was almost entirely Asian, Middle Eastern and Hispanic. I spotted only two other whites, one an English hairdresser protesting so loudly at the indignity of being made to wait at all that I moved away and sat next to a middle-aged Mexican with a mustache and a cowboy hat who told me he'd been coming here five years now for his green card.
Five years! My heart plunged, but my expensive and very efficient Century City lawyer had provided an immigration specialist, a "facilitator" as he called himself, to walk me through. When, after an hour or so, a list of names mysteriously boomed out over a loudspeaker, mine was at the top. The fellow who had been in the mill all this time shrugged and smiled. It seemed like a miracle, although I knew this was exactly what it was not. Wheels had been oiled, though on this occasion, staring at all those faces dazed with boredom, I felt no guilt, merely gratitude. I waltzed out five minutes later bearing the employment card that made me legal.
Agustin doesn't resent his own difficulties. Whites have treated him pretty well, he says. He has no complaints. His mistrust and dislike are reserved for blacks, whom he believes are given all the breaks. "There's a system. You have to learn how to exist within the system."
He first heard about Proposition 187 when he came home one night, showered and turned on the TV. "I wasn't comfortable with it. Maria could be deported, with our kids, and it would totally destroy my family. Sure, there are cases of abuse. But nearly all of us want to work. Here in California they hire us happily for low wages. Then they throw immigration at us if we ask for more. I think they're scared that we might become them. We're the people that made California. We built it."
By the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848, Mexico ceded California to the United States. It was just at this time that gold was discovered and lotus-land took on a new importance. Mexicans feel to this day that they were cheated, and that in coming to California they are asserting a historical right; with each payday and welfare check they claim revenge. "It's a scar, not a border," notes the Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes.
Sucking at his broken teeth, Agustin says: "Mexico is overshadowed by the U.S., which tends to use smaller countries for its own benefit. Americans buy our oil cheap, refine it and sell it for less. They exploit us and then they get upset when we come here." He goes quiet, and wipes his hands. He seems a little embarrassed. He says sadly, "I agree that the immigration problem is overwhelming."
IT'S TRUE THAT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PUT A tremendous burden on the health and education systems. The Los Angeles Unified School District creaks under their influx. Vanessa, a fearless girl with an attention span as long as a rock video, attends a Van Nuys elementary school. She is taken there each morning and collected each afternoon in a van by "the driver," as he's known in the neighborhood, to whom Maria and other mothers pay $12 a week. Ten years ago there were 750 pupils at the school. Now there are 1,550, and nearly 400 more are bused out. More than 85 percent are Hispanic, most from families like that of Agustin and Maria, for whom getting the kids dressed and out to school is sometimes too much. The school, accordingly, has a high rate of nonattendance and transiency. There's a constant influx of new students throughout the school year.
Vanessa's teacher is a chunky young guy with a mustache and a powerful, square jaw. He was born in Los Angeles to Mexican parents with little education. "A lot of people who come to El Norte, they think all their problems disappear," he says. "They know they'll get more money. But the hurricane of getting a job, paying the bills -- that soon takes over, and they don't look after their kids' education. I know these people work so hard. But a child can fall behind and behind and behind and then that's it, they're lost."
Vanessa, in danger of this, might be sent to special ed. "Maybe she'll make it out," her teacher says. "But most likely she'll marry at a very young age, have kids and depend on the government, welfare."
One of the immigrant's implied bargains is this: I'll do your bad jobs for not much money, but you must educate my children. In return, the welcoming country expects that the immigrant and his or her family learn the national language. I remember that in Agustin and Maria's apartment the only reading material of any kind is Bride's magazine, from which Maria plots her wedding to Agustin next year. But then I also remember that Agustin and Maria work so hard they haven't time for much else. They're intimidated by the education system, perhaps even by books themselves.
Meanwhile, Vanessa, black-haired and beautiful, shoots up her hand to answer all the questions. She's eager, overeager, perhaps because I'm there with the photographer, and gets most of them wrong. Her T-shirt says, "When I Grow Up I Want to Be a Movie Star."
By now I think I'm getting to know this family pretty well. I'm doing that writer's thing of congratulating myself on having got out there and actually met people. Then one morning out of the blue Maria says: "The other family who live here just had a baby the night before last. They came back from hospital today."
I say, "The other family?"
She gestures back toward the corridor that leads to the bedroom from which Agustin had produced his gym bag, to a shut door behind which I'd supposed the kids slept.
Another family lives in there? A whole family?
She nods.
I'm fascinated. It's not just that I've been naive. Something has been revealed, one more barrier of mistrust cleared away. Of course, there must be others. And then there's something else: levels of hierarchy don't stop with immigrant and nonimmigrant, legal and illegal. Agustin and Maria have tenants who, it turns out, pay $250 a month for the smaller of the apartment's two bedrooms and use of the bathroom and kitchen. The arrangement doesn't seem to work. Maria is wishing they'd leave so she could bring in one of her sisters who has twin baby girls. Then her sister could baby-sit for her while she worked 13-hour night shifts at a local print shop, a job she had done before and to which she's been asked back.
In due course the young couple appear, Ruben and Lena, carrying their new baby in a car seat. Next day, at a wedding party for Maria's sister, Ruben explains that he, like Agustin, was born in a pueblo in the state of Hidalgo and came across when he was 15.
Now he's a dayworker, one of the many thousands in Los Angeles who stand on corners waiting to be hired. He takes a 90-minute bus ride each morning to the far southwest side of the valley, because that's where the white people are. "They pay better," he says. "And are less likely to cheat you."
At 7:30 in the morning, he stands on a street corner beneath a Bank of America sign that towers above the parking lot of the 7-Eleven. He spoons noodles into his mouth as a flatbed truck pulls in with two workers already in the back. The driver buys a Snapple and the truck heads out again, up into Topanga Canyon. "There's a lot of construction up there," says Ruben. "Many rich people. But they use legal workers. Those guys will get $20 an hour. I'm looking to get $7, $8 an hour." Sometimes, however, he has to take $4.
What patrons are doing is against the law as well. Negotiations happen in a blink, before the 7-Eleven security guard has a chance to jot down the license of the car, which he passes on to his boss, who'll give it to the police -- at least that's the threat. It's a hustling scene. By 8 A.M. there are perhaps a hundred workers, grouped in various spots around the block. The security guard has been instructed to let them stay because, of course, they spend money at the 7-Eleven.
Historically, immigration has been tolerated, even encouraged during labor shortages. Labor migration has been going on for centuries and it's hard to see how 300,000 or so illegal immigrants per year will make or break the American economy. Indeed, in Los Angeles they're most likely an asset. The number of illegals in California is thought to be growing by 125,000 a year -- hardly an economic catastrophe in a state of 31 million. In Los Angeles, where 80,000 jobs were created last year, it's a definite plus. The city has a thirst for people who will work for $5 or even $3 an hour.
The legal Chinese immigrants who have revitalized the San Gabriel Valley, the Latinos who are opening businesses in depressed areas of South Los Angeles and the Russians and Iranians who are opening businesses all over are the principal reasons the city is so different from, say, Detroit. Despite the fires, the earthquake, the riots, the decimation of the defense and aerospace industries, Los Angeles is very much alive. Says Joel Kotkin: "The only place where American society is evolving is where the immigrant influx is strong. Cities would have no future without them. But if you're sitting in Idaho, it looks different."
ON SATURDAY AGUSTIN and Maria and all four kids pile into the family car, a 20-year-old beige Datsun with more than 200,000 miles on it, a type of vehicle so common in Los Angeles that it has a name: Border Brothers' Cadillac. Agustin got it from a man he met through work, in exchange for doing the man's garden each Saturday for a month. Today is the fourth and final Saturday.
With Maria at the wheel the Datsun heads out onto Sepulveda Boulevard, and a cop car pulls up alongside. Inside the Datsun there's a sudden alarmed flurry because, it turns out, Maria has no California driver's license: if caught, therefore, her fake ID would most likely be discovered and she'd be in all sorts of trouble. But the black-and-white makes a left, and she smiles with nervous relief. I ask why she bothers, if every time she gets behind the wheel she risks deportation and the breakup of her family.
"I like to drive," she says.
I remember that Elton Gallegly, the Republican Representative for Ventura County, has added a provision to Lamar Smith's bill, to the effect that if you're here for 12 months, undocumented, you'll be prohibited from trying to become legal for 10 years. The motto is seek, bar, deport. He's hoping to make it impossible for illegals to stay.
"He's hallucinating," Maria says. "Does he think I'm just going to up and leave? Even if I am found and deported I'm going to crawl back here on my stomach if necessary to be with my children. He'll only push us deeper underground."
This is stupid, I say. You should get yourself legal: follow the procedures, marry Agustin, become a citizen -- it's not that difficult.
"I know," she says, and explains how she dislikes governments telling her what to do. She hated it in Mexico as well. Governments are there to be mistrusted and got around, she says, sounding every bit a member of the Michigan militia. "I put more into this society than I get out," she says. "I work, I don't claim welfare, my children are Americans."
And so, meanwhile, she likes to drive.
We head west to a leafier, more prosperous section of the valley and stop outside a big house with a spanking new silver Lincoln in the drive. The electronic garage doors open to reveal two more cars, a new BMW and a new Honda Civic, and Agustin steps inside to heft out the tools. He mows the lawns, front and back, adjusts the sprinklers, wields a buzzing trimmer at the edges.
The owner of the house, Antoine, a dapper middle-aged man dressed entirely in white, steps out with sodas for the kids and presents each of them with a crisp dollar bill. "Funny, isn't it?" says Antoine. "How something that means nothing to oneself can mean so much to someone else."
Los Angeles has more social gradations than a Henry James novel. People are kept separate by language, by geography and mostly of course by money, a point Antoine has used $4 to make.
Antoine's kindly superiority is without thought or effort. He thinks of himself as a weary and saddened man of the world, not as an American, and certainly not as an immigrant. Yet he's of Armenian descent, born in Lebanon, where he worked in the hotel business. When the civil war really got going, back in the 1970's, he was twice kidnapped by Muslim groups, and so he left to come here. His 24-year-old son was killed by shelling in Beirut a month ago, about the time he decided to give Agustin the car. "I think there are too many immigrants," he says. "But Agustin is a nice guy and a hard worker. I like him."
Which pinpoints another problem: too many, but a nice guy and a hard worker. Immigration is typically an area where public pronouncement is at odds with private behavior. The whole debate is an onion. You can go on and on peeling back the layers and incongruities. Governor Wilson himself was embarrassed by the unsurprising revelation that he'd once hired an illegal. In California this is neither remarkable nor unusual, considering the available labor pool. Moreover, the distinction between legal and illegal starts getting fuzzy the moment they decide to stay and try to change their status, a process that -- even as I.N.S. struggles manfully -- often takes years.

SOUTH OF SAN DIEGO I RIDE out with the Border Patrol, which prides itself on being bigger and much more visible these days. Federal money has boosted the number of agents in the San Diego sector to 1,500, compared with 798 in 1991. At a cost of $46 million, "Operation Gatekeeper" has been put into effect, a clampdown designed to squeeze border-runners away from traditional crossing areas like Imperial Beach, where they can easily hop onto a bus or train, into others farther east where the journey is longer and more arduous.
The border was once chaotic and violent. Now it's surreal. The "coyotes" occupy the high ground, warning each other with bird calls when agents approach. A Vietnam-vintage Bell chopper, small enough to get into the canyons, whirls with its searchlight blazing. On a hill overlooking the ocean and a former K.G.B. listening station on the Mexican side, a truck looms in the night with a huge, humming infrared periscope sticking out the top. Inside, in the eerie light, an agent stares into a screen on which humans are shown as white blobs, referred to as "glows."
Leaning against the hood of another truck, staring up at the ugly 10-foot-high steel wall that now snakes along 24 miles of the border, an agent speaks with regret of the wild days not so long ago when they'd come pouring over 1,000 at a time and he'd nab as many as 50 or even 100 by himself. All the rest would get away. Now it's more of a cat-and-mouse game, he says, moving toward the fence as a figure clambers on top, spots him and then jumps back. "Do you think you could do this all night?"
A big friendship park dedicated by Pat Nixon in 1974 is deserted now, its picnic tables crumbling in the shadow of the wall. "It's a battle, it's a war," says Ed Head, night supervisor at the Imperial Beach station. "It's good to feel that we're winning for a change."
Coming up on midnight, an agent takes me on a long and bumpy ride, way out east into the San Ysidro Mountains, where we've heard that two or three groups of illegals, with perhaps as many as 15 or 20 in each group, are being chased by Border Patrol agents. In the end, this is what much of the new game comes down to -- guys hoofing it after other guys across rough country in the pitch dark. By the time we arrive the bust has already gone down and 38 glows are sitting in the dirt in the glare of truck headlights.
Some have covered their eyes. Others have cuts on their hands and faces. Some have hiked for 12 hours up this 3,000-foot mountain wearing sneakers or toeless sandals. Some are from Central America, and have journeyed for months before that. Their dream to come to America must have been very strong. Within 40 minutes they'll be processed and dumped back over the border in Tijuana, where those who are O.T.M. (another Border Patrol usage: Other Than Mexican) will most likely be treated very unsympathetically indeed by a Mexican Government that has its own savage ideas about what to do with aliens.
There's one young man with bulging brown eyes and mean, kinky hair. A Border Patrol guy says, "Yo, Prince!"
The young man's sad expression doesn't change. He says, "Que?"
The next day Arthur Ollman, director of San Diego's Museum of Photographic Arts, walks me through "A Nation of Strangers," an exhibit he has spent four years putting together. It documents the history of immigration in America; indeed, it is a moving and beautiful apologia for the same. "The bottom line is that the stuff we're going through today is not unique. We've been there before. We don't have to panic," he says.
"Native Americans! Arouse!" runs one anti-immigration poster, circa 1850. There have been immigrant floods before, at times of economic difficulty, and much the same fears concerning assimilation. Beneath Don Bartletti's recent photograph of a beefy bleached blonde holding a placard that says, "Control Immigration or Lose America," I read the following, quoted from a 1994 Utne Reader: "The rate of immigration relative to the nation's base population is far below historic levels. . . . Moreover the percentage of foreign born people in the U.S. population has fallen from 8.89 in 1940 to 6.8 today."
America's not being overrun after all.
"It's true that we're changing to a more international place," says Ollman. "Americans will become more polyglot. The melting-pot metaphor doesn't work anymore. It's a mosaic. But we're not being overrun, and I find it almost offensive this idea that America is no longer strong enough to handle its immigrant influx."
I'm reassured.
My reactions, that is to say, are predictably liberal. Back home, in Los Angeles, I remind myself how much I like the diversity of the place. And yet we'd just hired a nanny. The only white applicant for the job was a disturbingly energetic 30-something woman with great rifts in her curriculum vitae, a self-confessed graduate of "12 Steps" whose hands were covered in paint and who exclaimed midway through the interview, "And in my spare time I'm a professional clown!"
We went the safe route. We hired a 22-year-old Mexican, Christine, who had already worked for three families, came with solid references and has a 2-year-old daughter who is a citizen. With Christine I find myself sympathetic and friendly one moment, a paranoid patron the next, questioning her stability, her hygiene, her habits. I can't imagine that Pete Wilson himself would be any crankier than I was when Christine came back with the stroller and told me that while she'd been walking our baby a man on the street had asked her for a date.
We've done more than invite Christine into our lives. We're trusting her with our child, our future. She meanwhile looks to me as a way in, a handhold on a society she doesn't understand and can't quite negotiate. She gets me to write to a lawyer with whom she's in dispute. She asks me to cash a check for her, because, she says, she's in between bank accounts. In a way, I suppose, she's after me to behave like a parent. I feel edgy, threatened. I hate it.
Pro-immigration forces have tended to keep their focus tight on the economic issues because they sense that Americans don't want to be told they're racist. Nobody does. Yet, one of the problems with the immigration issue is that it does impinge on the race issue, and thus appeals temptingly and dangerously to the worst side of all of us.
A central argument of Brimelow's "Alien Nation" is that America has always had an essential nature, an ethnic core, and that it's white. He writes that "the first naturalization law, in 1790, stipulated that an applicant must be a 'free white person.' Blacks became full citizens only after the Civil War."
He goes on: "Maybe America should not have been like this. But it was." And now: "Americans are being tricked out of their own identity."
Reading this, I'm overcome with a weird looking-glass giddiness. Someone's trying to change the rules here, to wipe a rag over history. America's identity is precisely that of mutation, its power drawn from an energetic and quite fearless ability to adapt and win. Its national book, after all, is "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," about a beautiful and dangerous river that never stops changing.
ALONG WITH more than 7,000 others, Maria T. and her family stand in line outside the Fred Jordan Mission in downtown Los Angeles, where on a boiling August day they wait for a free handout of clothes and sneakers. They've been huddled in sleeping bags and under blankets all night, during the course of which a man was shot to death outside a Chinese food store on the opposite side of Fifth Street. This is Skid Row, a scary neighborhood.
The kids are tired, hot and hungry, but still excited about getting new Nikes. Television crews from Japan, Spain and Germany, as well as from local news programs, stand by to record the happy event. People hold umbrellas against the sun, and a man passes up and down the line with a garden hose, drenching upturned faces. Last year, about 8,000 children were helped. In 1995, however, corporate giving has slipped for the first time, and they have only 5,000 pairs of shoes.
Only 5,000 pairs of shoes, at least 7,000 children, and so outside, as the hours pass, the huge line gets anxious. Maria is scared because no one helped when a big group came surging up the street and muscled in ahead of them. Now her children are crying, and it looks as if they might not get sneakers after all. The smaller sizes have already run out. Maria talks to one of the mission workers, a man she has met before. Can he help? He's sorry, he says, but there's nothing he can do, and he turns away.
Other mission workers walk down the line, quietly inviting families to leave. Maria stands with her arms around her children gathered around her. By now she has waited for almost 24 hours. It's the end of a long and stressful day and her kids feel sick. "This isn't right," she says.
AMERICA IS AN IMMIGRANT Nation; indeed, a nation of strangers. I like it that way, though the arguments in favor of the idea are not merely sentimental and historical. Corporate interests value immigration for something that troubles us -- keeping wages lower, and these days not just at the level of busboys and day workers.
The American economy is in relatively good shape and has pretty much the legal immigration it needs. The system isn't broken, doesn't need fixing -- and certainly not in the ways that are now being proposed. Illegal immigration is touchier. Listening to academics makes it easy to forget the racially inflamed brush fire that is the debate in California.
Recent polls show a surprising sympathy even for illegal immigrants, provided they otherwise play by the rules: work, get documentation, learn English. Only 20 percent say immigrants take jobs away from citizens, and 69 percent say they do work that citizens don't necessarily want and that needs to be done. Few say that the American-born children of illegals should be deprived of education and welfare, let alone their citizenship. The message here is a sensible one: beef up the Border Patrol; deport criminals; don't break up families; target labor-enforcement at bad-guy sweatshop employers and make an effort to deal with temporary visa overstays, who surprisingly make up as much as 50 percent of all illegals; supply Federal assistance to heavily impacted areas such as Los Angeles, and forget the idea of a national verification system or an identification card.
Ultimately, this is a debate about values, not money. This is about how America feels about itself.
THE LAST TIME I meet with Maria T. she has heard of the passing of the new Federal welfare bill, which will cut off welfare payments after five years, a measure that, in some respects, seems like a federalization of Proposition 187. Understanding the vulnerability of her position, she is panicked. I've had a hunch all along that she sends some little portion of the money she gets to her husband in Guadalajara, not so much to support him as to keep him away. "He doesn't understand how much our life has changed," she says. She asks if I know of anyone, an American, who'd be prepared to marry her.
I'm not sure this is the solution and, anyway, what about the guy in Guadalajara?
"He's not really my husband," she says. "I just call him that," and I reflect again how fluid human situations slop outside the bucket of any political oratory.
She bites her nails and gathers the kids around her for a walk to the store. Mario, already rebellious, is reluctant to come along. Soon he'll be at the age, Maria knows, where she'll have to start worrying about the danger and lure of the gangs; kids his age, or younger, get slammed in (eerily graphic usage for the youth trap of every poor neighborhood in Los Angeles). Maria believes in the American dream more than I do, at least to the extent that she trusts the uniquely American promise that her children will have a better life than she does. At the shrine outside the a church on Cedros Avenue she lights a candle. She thanks the Virgin for a brand new day and asks for another one. Then she walks to J. C. Penney, where she buys socks for the kids and then, from another counter, an American flag, for hope.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROUNDUP: Illegal immigrants, caught in the headlights of the San Diego Border Patrol in September, waited to be processed and returned to Mexico. Some from Central America had traveled for months; many will probably try to cross again. (pg. 26-27); CLOSE WRAPS: Some of Maria T.'s children huddle in her bedroom. (pg. 28); ROOM TO SPARE: The family clothing is kept in another bedroom; Maria T. hates to let her children out of her sight, and so insists that all five of them sleep in her room. (pg. 29); UNSTEADY JOBS: Immigrants hope to be among those choosen for daywork. (pg. 30); STEADY JOBS: Nannies and their charges in L.A. (pg. 31); (Joseph Rodriguez/Black Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (93%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ROBBERY (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); HEAD INJURIES (64%); 

PERSON: RAYNER, RICHARD MARIA T (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



141 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 17; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2578 words

HEADLINE: A City of Ranchers And High-Rises

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; JULIA PRESTON writes for The Times from Mexico City.

 BODY:
A TAXI DRIVER I hailed in the central square of Mexico's second largest city wanted to know: Who is the patron Virgin of the United States?
The question came during the December festivities for the Virgin of Guadalupe, who has had the difficult job of looking out for all of Mexico since she revealed herself to an Indian farmer in 1531. The normal downtown bustle of Guadalajara, the major commercial hub in north-central Mexico, had completely yielded to files of pilgrims heading toward the Virgin's church and knots of families out for a ritual after-Mass stroll. 
 When I told the driver that the United States does not have a universal protectress, he was thunderstruck.
Guadalajara falls under the safekeeping of Our Lady of Guadeloupe as well as its own Virgencita, whose diminutive image dwells in an 18th-century Baroque church in Zapopan, on the northwest edge of town. On her day, Oct. 12, Our Lady of Zapopan draws worshipers in waves that swamp the city. But at any time of year there are penitents in her ornate but welcoming temple, and it is filled with a sense of the adoration invested there over hundreds of years.
Though Guadalajara has grown to four million people, it retains its Catholic devotion and respect for tradition. This is a city where factory Christmas parties begin with a half-hour of prayer and confession with the local priest. Guadalajara has sought to become cosmopolitan without becoming decadent, to be true to its separate history without seeming provincial.
Since the Spanish colonial era, Guadalajara's progress has been guided by a country aristocracy of ranchers and traders who until as recently as 50 years ago were insulated by a wall of mountains from the tumultuous power struggles of Mexico City. "Let there come no rumor of discord" reads the inscription carved over the columned entrance to the gracious Degollado Theater in the center of town, signaling the city's caution toward outside change. Guadalajara's pretensions to be the true national epicenter also date from before independence. Residents today still regard it as more purely Mexican than the giant capital. The popular city soccer team is the only major one in the country that allows no foreign players. But Mexico's rapid opening to global trade in the late 1980's, followed by the wrenching peso devaluation of 1994, jarred Guadalajara's attempt to modernize gracefully. Garish malls spread in the suburbs. During winter months the air is ocher colored with smog. Robbery and assault are on the rise. Everywhere there are signs of the city's struggle to maintain its past dignity while adding to its commercial might.
Still, for travelers, Guadalajara remains the place to go to get a look at urban Mexico while avoiding the overwhelming size and congestion of Mexico City. Situated on a plateau at 5,100 feet, the city is warmed by a tropical sun but cooled by mountain breezes, so its climate is springlike all year. Guadalajara is a convenient stop on the way to the Pacific resorts of Puerto Vallarta and Manzanillo and for those who hope to learn about Mexico en route to getting a tan. Some 280 miles northwest of Mexico City, it can be the last stop on a driving tour that starts in the capital and winds through Michoacan, San Luis Potosi and Guanajuato. It is laid out across generous boulevards, so traffic normally gets tangled only in the very center.
THE heart of the city, which was chartered in 1539, consists of a cluster of monumental gray-stone buildings whose grace and refinement easily rival the zocalo, or central square, of Mexico City. The Government Palace displays classic colonial lines with a touch of Baroque while the cathedral, with its brass-based white columns and Moorish yellow-tiled spires, is an example of the eclecticism of the 18th century. On the avenues running out from the center, grand century-old homes are mixed with glass skyscrapers. In 1982 the leaders of the state of Jalisco concluded that Guadalajara was most distinguished by the hospitable public spaces downtown They banned traffic and boldly opened a series of plazas that unite the old center into a pedestrian paradise of roughly 15 blocks.
The most expansive is the Plaza Tapatia, named with the term that refers to all things Guadalajaran. (As best I could gather from conflicting versions, tapatio derives from an indigenous word referring to a three-finger measure once used in barter.) It was well worth the day I spent to take in the buildings, peruse the arcades and rest on the park benches in the plaza to observe the abundant street life. Huichol Indians were selling their traditional fine bead work. Other peasants sought to satisfy more contemporary tastes by carving names and intricate floral designs into common house keys. A trio of two elderly women and a man crooned ranchera ballads, with one of the women playing the trumpet.
A man with an iguana on his shoulder drew a crowd as he pitched his prescriptions for curing toothache with onions and curling hair with the pit of a tropical fruit called a mamey. Vendors pushed carts piled with fresh-baked sugar doughnuts and sheets of fried pork rind served with chile and lemon, delicious but perilous to the digestion.
City dwellers use the plazas for sundry purposes. Guitar-playing girls from a secondary school gave a midday concert next to a noisy but peaceful sit-in by farmers from an opposition party who wanted the state governor to resign.
Guadalajara has a vigorous cultural life, with two historical museums near the old center and contemporary art galleries and experimental theaters whose programs are advertised in the Plaza Tapatia.
In the Government Palace, its lovely patio shaded by orange trees, and in the stately Hospicio Cabanas at the far end of the big Plaza, walls and ceilings are covered with paintings made in the 1930's by the master Jose Clemente Orozco. These fiery murals attest to Guadalajara's capacity to encompass even the most impassioned critics of its conservatism. Though the murals are just around the corner from the cathedral, Orozco used them to lash out against the Catholic clergy, showing priests as henchmen bringing death and oppression.
"This is a contradictory city," explained Jorge Zepeda, the editor of Siglo 21, which is one of the most sophisticated newspapers in Mexico. "It has always tolerated a nucleus of reaction against its tradition-bound ways."
In 1993 the sculptor Alejandro Colunga was allowed to rupture the unities of the square in front of the Hospicio Cabanas, which dates to 1801, with four bizarre bronze shapes of flattened human figures that also serve as benches. Again the experiment was successful. The benches are always filled with lounging passersby.
THE Hospicio Cabanas, which was built by the Catholic Church as an orphanage, is the largest colonial building in Mexico, according to a spirited self-styled historian named Ruben Rodriguez Corona who provided a tour. His energetic narration convinced me that no traveler should miss the Orozco mural that fills its central dome, depicting a man engulfed in fire. It appears to move in startling ways as you walk around underneath to view it from different angles. With a bit of Guadalajaran feistiness Mr. Rodriguez led a gaggle of visitors into a kitchen to show us the extravagance of a complete set of idle equipment, including a pizza oven bought by former President Jose Lopez Portillo for a banquet he held in the building.
Down the plaza from the Hospicio, as an emblem of Guadalajara's travail, a huge fountain showing the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl was dry. The head of a giant snake, which is its centerpiece, tumbled off in 1982 and the ensemble started to sink into the ground. Now a headless snake rises to the sky in a waterless fountain.
Throughout downtown there is much bargain shopping. In particularl there is a thriving cowboy subculture, with many Guadalajaran men favoring Stetsons for their business headwear. Among the shops catering to their style, El Toro Loco (67 Paseo Degollado) was selling hand-stitched cowboy boots for as little as $35, calculated at 7.50 pesos to the dollar, the rate you can expect to get in Mexico. At El Charro, at 148 Juarez, a pair of fine suede chaps was going for just under $40.
Tourism has lagged in recent years. So rather than flock to spots that cater to tourists, visitors must find the spots where Guadalajarans flock. Virtually everything is inexpensive. A cab ride to anywhere in the central city is under $2.50. The cabs at hotel locations known as sitios are the safest. Crime is not as bad as it is in Mexico City, but the year-old recession is hurting Mexicans badly. Don't go strolling late at night, try not to move about the city alone and beware of strangers who accost you on the street with offers of assistance.
Amid the hard times, the Copa de Leche Restaurant on Juarez Avenue, which was an institution for both locals and travelers, has closed. These days the cafe scene is at La Paloma, at Lopez Cotilla and Miguel de Cervantes, a popular handgout for drinking tequila or coffee and discussing politics. Couples can spend an evening dancing the salsa to a live orchestra at the brassy Salon Veracruz (486 Manzano, next to the Hotel Carlton). After 5.30 P.M. every day except Tuesday La Bombilla (at Lopez Cotilla and Penitenciaria), an utterly plain coffee shop, serves magnificent churros, a deep-fried pastry, with rich hot chocolate.
The truly adventurous will hire a cab for a lightning strike on La Violeta, at Leandro Valle and San Fernando, at the corner of of Leandro Valle and San Fernando, near the Calzada de la Independencia. This ice cream stand is in a dicey part of town and the decor is minimal. But you can take away an order of the sultry mamey ice cream, which has delighted Guadalajarans for a generation.
On Sundays, depending on the season, entertainment choices include the pretty if trite Folkloric Ballet at 10 A.M. in the Degollado Theater, the bullfight, the rodeo and the state band in the Plaza de Armas. Jalisco is the birthplace of mariachi music, and hiring a band for a serenade is still a necessity for boyfriends with marital intentions. But the best bands don't seem to wait any longer to be hired in the Mariachi Plaza, which has grown uncomfortably seedy. Keep an eye out for signs advertising Las Perlitas Tapatias, an all-female mariachi band that really belts it out.
Visitors can also enjoy pleasant excursions into Guadalajara's suburbs. A day trip takes you to Tonala, which still retains its village simplicity despite having been swallowed by the larger metropolis. Tonala is home to families of artisans that make stoneware and other ceramics.
On Hidalgo Street is the workshop of 60-year-old Jose Bernabe Campechano, the latest paterfamilias in a dynasty of potters who make delicately decorated plates known as petatillo. Mr. Bernabe and his seven sons sit in a line on rickety wooden chairs. One son paints the fine white lines that go one way; the next paints the lines that cross the other way.
A whole day's production amounts to only two or three plates, which is why a rare full set of 96 pieces sells for more than $3,000.
Stored in one corner were the plates where a grandson, Daniel, aged 8, was at work developing his own technique for painting deer and hummingbirds.
On the same day, the next stop is upscale Tlaquepaque, where Jalisco crafts are displayed in boutiques. A soothing way to spend time there is over late lunch in the cool patio of the Restaurant With No Name, which is half a block from the central square. The restaurant is so dubbed from the days when it operated illegally for lack of a liquor license. Peacocks roam from table to table as though checking to see that the service is up to snuff.
Before leaving Guadalajara I attended a concert in the Degollado Theater of the Jalisco Philharmonic, an 85-piece orchestra conducted by a jovial maestro, Jose Guadalupe Flores. The symphony migrates to parks and churches to play Rachmaninoff and Stravinsky for Mexicans who believe they can't enter a theater without a tux. (Mr. Flores was not even fazed by the earthquake, measuring 5.7 on the Richter scale, that jangled the crystal of the lobby chandelier one afternoon while we were talking.)
Mr. Flores chose Haydn's sweet "Symphony of the Gods," which is played by candlelight and which calls for the musicians to leave the stage quietly one by one during the final movement. In the end there were only two violins engaged in a soft duet. In the natural resonance of the elegant 129-year-old theater the intimate sound carried perfectly, leaving the audience in a reverent hush as the maestro blew out the last candle.
 
If you go
 
Getting There and Around
Direct flights to Guadalajara are available on Mexicana de Aviacion from Chicago, Denver, San Francisco and Los Angeles, by Aeromexico from Los Angeles, by American Airlines from Los Angeles and Dallas, by Continental from Houston.
The best way to get around in Guadalajara is by taxi. All the legitimate taxis are yellow and none of them work with meters. Negotiate the fee before you leave the curb.

 Places to Stay
Rates are calculated at 7.5 pesos to the dollar. The exchange rate quoted in New York by Thomas Cook is 6.6 pesos.
Hotel Quinta Real, 2727 Avenida Mexico; (52 3) 615-0000, fax (52 3) 630-1797, an impeccably appointed 75-room hotel in the style of an old hacienda was designed and built by the brothers Elias, both architects. The service is superb and the restaurant produces the best nouveau Mexican cooking in Guadalajara. Try the two-tone soup, with corn chowder on one side and huitlacoche (a black fungus that grows on corn) on the other. The hotel cites a minimum rate of $138 a night with tax, but a savvy travel agent in Mexico City got me a room for $85.
For those with kids, there are fewer breakables and a bigger pool at the Camino Real, a 205-room resort-style hotel about 20 minutes from downtown at 5005 Avenida Vallarta; (52 3) 121-8000. Rooms start at $75.
Within walking distance of downtown is the 104-room Hotel de Mendoza, 16 Venustiano Carranza; (52 3) 613-4646. This inn, in an old building next to the freshly restored Santa Maria de Gracia church, is handsome but a little dark. Rooms start at $55.
The Hotel Frances, 35 Maestranza, (91 3) 613-1190, with its 60 rooms starting at $25, is the city's oldest hostelry. It put in 371 years of service before it was lovingly renovated in 1981. It's a bit funky but a bargain.

 Places to Eat
In heart of the historic center, La Rinconada, 86 Morelos, 613-9914, is housed in the glass-covered patio of an old home adorned with cut glass and louvered hardwood doors. It serves steak prepared a la mexicana, spiced with onions and chili sauce. Meal for two with wine about $25.
La Destileria, 2916 Avenida Mexico, 640-3440, serves modern Mexican cooking in a setting designed to recall a Tequila factory. I ate a delicious crepe of shrimp with huitlacoche costing $7. Meal for two with wine about $30.
A longtime moderately priced standard is the Restaurant Galeria Los Otates, 2455 Avenida Mexico; 630-2855. The quesadillas Gringa, a sort of tortilla sandwich with cheese, pork and coriander, were 60 cents each, and the rather original tostadas de la senora, with a filling of beans, guacamole and sauce with roasted pork, were 90 cents each.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hospico Cabanas with its esplanade and fountain. Jose Bernabe Campechano in his Tonala ceramic shop. An Orozco mural in the dome of the Hospico Cabanas. At arcade near cathedral, holiday decorations. Mariachi band entertains in Plaza of the Mariachis. (pg. 17); Murals by Jose Clemente Orozco in the Hospico Cabanas. (Photographs by Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times) (pg. 18)
 
Map of Guadalajara.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; GUADALAJARA (MEX); MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CHRISTMAS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); DEVALUATION (60%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); SUBURBS (60%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



142 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2562 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
Buildings Born of Dreams and Demons

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
THIS IS NOT A STORY ABOUT a new movement in architecture. It's a story about an old art movement that has resurfaced in contemporary architecture with startling vigor. Surrealism, which flourished between the world wars, was largely driven by Freud's theories. Surrealist painters, writers and film makers hoped to transform culture by injecting it with the powerful energies generated by subconscious mechanisms. The irrational, the erotic, the controlling, devouring, conflicted and repressed: artists like Breton, Miro, Bunuel, Magritte and Dali sought to draw into the daylight the primitive impulses Freud tried to understand through the interpretation of dreams.
Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas, Jean Nouvel, Philippe Starck, Raimund Abraham -- some of the most highly regarded architects of today -- do not describe themselves as Surrealists. Nor will they necessarily welcome being tagged with the name of an art movement that not long ago was thought to have passed irretrievably into history. Their work is emphatically of the present. But, like Surrealism, it reckons with the dark turbulence and contradictions of the inner life. It challenges the conventional view of architecture as the art of putting an ordered public face on things. 
 Intentionally or not, every building says something about the psyche. But in the century following Freud's earliest research, architects have not made conspicuous use of his ideas. In theory, at least, the modern movement took its cue from industrial technology. The standardized, the rational, the functional: modern architects embraced values they took to be consistent with scientific objectivity.
Post-modern architecture, as practiced by Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown, Robert A. M. Stern, Michael Graves and Charles Moore, is one line of development leading out of the disillusionment with modern orthodoxy. But in the mid-1970's another path was opened by architects who resisted the post-modern infatuation with period styles. Emilio Ambasz, James Wines, Aldo Rossi, Peter Eisenman, the Miami firm of Arquitectonica, Bernard Tschumi, Mr. Gehry, Mr. Koolhaas: in the work of these architects, subjectivity takes command. Like Surrealists, these architects seem determined to blur the border between waking reality and the dream state. A range of projects, newly completed or under way, has broadened this line of development into a major theme: the playful, the fantastic, the morbid, the mad, the aggressive, the absurd. Introducing such ideas into architecture will strike some as perverse, willful or contrary. It may be, however, that the perverse and contrary is the most sensible response to a changing public realm.
 
The Skyscraper As Guillotine
Leave it to a native of Freud's hometown to design a New York skyscraper's nightmare of its own castration. Louis Sullivan, considered the father of the skyscraper, once said its main feature is that it is tall. When the Austrian Cultural Institute, designed by the Vienna-born Raimund Abraham, finally is built on East 52d Street, near Fifth Avenue, it may be the first skyscraper to confess the fear engendered by the fantasy of tallness: a building that appears to slice itself down to size even as it rises.
A slim, midblock tower that tapers as it rises to a height of 20 floors, the building will be clad on the street side by three overlapping planes of glass that jut out sharply, like blades, on their lower edges. Mr. Abraham has compared the facade to a guillotine, a comment that has provoked the displeasure of those who see something uncivil in such a violent image. That's not surprising. Urban life is violent enough as it is. Architecture itself can be violent. Buildings blot out light and views as effectively as blindfolds. They menace cherished landmarks and the memories associated with them. They displace people from their homes. Do we want buildings to dramatize architecture's incessant assault on the city? Wouldn't we prefer architects to mask their aggressiveness behind polite facades? By restricting architects to the safe, the pleasant, the familiar, are we not condemning them to practice their art as a kind of decorative repression?
No design can settle the questions raised by Mr. Abraham's plan. It is enough that he has raised them. Unfortunately, the Austrian Government has stalled construction of this project because of political wrangling back home. Austria has given us Sacher torte and crystals, Lippizaner stallions and the Vienna Boys Choir, but surely it is Freud who has had the greatest impact on contemporary New York culture. Mr. Abraham has honored that impact with a design of uncommon elegance, honesty and insight.
 
Philippe Starck's Labyrinth of Style
There's no name out front, just an imposingly tall, dark green hedge beneath a pristine white Art Deco facade. This is the Delano, currently Miami Beach's most fashionable hotel. Designed by Philippe Starck, the Delano is the creation of the former nightclub impresario Ian Schrager. Together, the pair have collaborated on the Royalton and the Paramount, two of the most imaginatively designed public spaces New York has seen in years. The Delano is their most impressive work thus far.
The hedge outside is the box tree that mazes are made of. Pass behind it, and you fall into a labyrinth of style. Billowing white curtains frame the terrace at the Delano's entrance, and a huge white lamp shade hangs over it. In the breeze, the shade jerks around like a ghostly, demented bell; at night, the swaying cone of light turns the terrace into a stage for shadow dancing. Beyond the front doors, the whole hotel is aligned around a single grand axis, extending from the lobby past sitting areas, breakfast room, bar and restaurant to the lush pool area in the rear. The elongated perspective is hypnotic; you feel tugged forward, as in a trance, through endless white curtains. It is the scene a Hollywood set designer would envisage for an exquisitely choreographed dream sequence in which a movie star searches for an elusive lover.
Philippe Starck is the most explicitly Surrealist designer in practice. White cast-iron lawn furniture installed in the shallow end of the pool, living room furniture beneath trees outdoors, European-style street lamps suspended between rows of palms: Mr. Starck's indoor-outdoor reversals and juxtapositions call forth a Magritte apparition beneath a Miami moon.
The Delano's most surreal element is surely its fabulousness, its unrelenting flow of wit and chic. Fabulousness is intimidating, at least for those who court it. It is selective, yet cannot be considered undemocratic; entree depends not on birth or money or even achievement but on sensibility, a quality theoretically anyone can acquire. Moreover, fabulousness is most likely to intimidate those who already have entree, for who can ever be as fabulous as their image?
This is most evident in the hotel's all-white guest rooms. By convention, a hotel room is a place of privacy and security, a home away from home, where you can feel free to be yourself. That freedom is elusive at the Delano, however, where the unrelieved whiteness of walls, floors, fabrics and fixtures reminds you, nannylike, of how you fall short of perfection. Hair in the sink, socks on the floor, these come popping out of the whiteness like dark stains on your cool reputation. Immense mirrors in gilded frames throw in your face the physical flaws that the hotel's basement gym, its penthouse spa, fail to erase. What you need here is not a hairbrush but an airbrush, and perhaps an art director on call at all times.
I loved my stay there last fall precisely because of the self-consciousness the hotel can induce. If Mr. Starck is an artist (I think he is first rate), his artistry goes way beyond his celebrated visual flair. He grasps the social drama being acted out by the sophisticates his flair appeals to. He sees the powerful connection between advanced sophistication and primal fear. Stylishness does not exist in isolation. It must be displayed. And the desire to display a sense of style is inseparably linked to the fear, even the hope, that one's ordinariness will one day be exposed.
 
In Paris and Berlin, Nouvel at Play
Advertising, an industry based on dreams, is responsible for some of the most inventive designs in recent years, like the Venice, Calif., offices of TBWA Chiat/Day, commissioned by Jay Chiat, from Frank Gehry and Gaetano Pesce. Two recent projects by the Parisian architect Jean Nouvel show that he is sharply attuned to the culture of advertising and to the creative challenges it offers architects.
Mr. Nouvel understands the importance of play. He demonstrates this with great wit in the Paris headquarters of CLM/BBDO, which he designed in 1988: the interior resembles a sports arena, in fact games like basketball and badminton are sometimes played there. Ringed by three tiers of offices, the elliptical atrium has a hardwood floor and is furnished with silly, oversize sofas upholstered in a nubbed rubber fabric that recalls basketballs. The stadium illusion is heightened by hydraulically operated skylights that swing upward, like wings, opening the building's interior to the sky.
His Galeries Lafayette on Friedrichstrasse in Berlin, to be completed next month, transports advertising from sender to receiver, from image makers to consumers. The design updates the department stores that stretch along Boulevard Haussmann on the Right Bank of the Seine. These now quaint establishments drew on the most advanced art and techology of their time, and so does Mr. Nouvel.
At the building's core are two cones of glass, touching base to base at the ground-floor level. One points down, admitting natural light into the basement office floors; the second, larger cone rises dramatically, punching holes through the seven selling floors. Like a compressed indoor version of Times Square, the cone is a bombardment of light and color. Designer labels and other signs are projected as holographs onto the glass, which serves as a giant store directory. The effect is like being inside the brain of a compulsive shopper, driven into a frenzy by recurring fantasies of Cacharel, Kenzo and Yves St. Laurent. Perhaps the mind is that of post-Cold War Berlin, now frantically shopping its way back to the West.
 
Frank Gehry's Message of the Rose
In recent years, Frank Gehry has been struggling to translate his personal idiom from the small scale of private houses to the epic scale of major public works. Mr. Gehry's design for the new Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, scheduled for completion in 1997, may turn out to be the fulfillment of this profoundly social ambition. The building, part of an immense effort to rejuvenate an aging port city, reflects two of his ruling passions: the industrial cities of the 19th century and a romantic belief in the power of art.
Mr. Gehry's design pays homage to Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim while acknowledging its distance from Wright in time and space. At Bilbao, the central space, like Wright's, is a rotunda, but instead of being tightly wound into a coil the exterior splays emphatically outward. It is as if Mr. Gehry has released the pent-up energy in Wright's spiral by taking a knife to its sides. Strips of metal, marking the scale of the museum's floors, ripple and flare outward into the city in a bold expression of centrifugal force.
Mr. Gehry has called this central form a metallic flower. It's typically generous of him to tease us with a figurative reference; we get to tease him back, with free associations of our own. Like Wright's spiral, Mr. Gehry's flower evokes a metaphor of organic growth while it also restates Wright's religious view of art. In New York, Wright conveyed this idea with the ziggurat, or world mountain, an ancient religious form. In Spain, a predominantly Roman Catholic country, Mr. Gehry delivers the same message with a rose. The central symbol of buildings raised in the Virgin's honor, his flower asserts art's claim to a spiritual dimension. Yet the industrial material from which he fashions the rose brings the form down to earth, honoring the Surrealist idea that art should perform the Promethean task of injecting creativity into everyday life.
 
Rem Koolhaas Is Thinking Big
Most architects talk about scale. Rem Koolhaas talks about "Bigness." In his new book "Small, Medium, Large, Extra Large," a collaboration with the graphic designer Bruce Mau, the Dutch architect equates architecture with the primitive desire to dominate. Big muscles, big cars, big bank accounts, big hair.
Architecture does seem to be going the way of bigness, with the proliferation of superstores, superstadiums, elephantine convention centers, multi-acre residential developments and industrial parks. Some regard this with horror; it allows quantity to displace quality. Mr. Koolhaas takes a more analytic approach. Looking at what scares us can tell us who we are.
The architect has had the opportunity not only to think about bigness but also to build it, as the master planner of Euralille, a major office complex and convention center in Lille, in northern France. The project was designed to take advantage of Lille's proximity to major trading centers of the European Economic Community and the Chunnel. A highway, a metro and a high-speed train converge in the center of the complex. Here Mr. Koolhaas has created an artificial cavern called the "Piranesian Space," after the 18th-century architect best known for his drawings of imaginary, multilevel prisons. By carving away portions of the underground floors, Mr. Koolhaas turns infrastructure into urban spectacle.
Modern architecture could be "surrealist" in this way. The machine imagery of modern buildings exposed the engineering hidden beneath masonry facades, but a modern architect would not deliberately evoke the image of a prison. On the contrary, the machine represented liberation for the modernists, a release from the stifling confinement of outmoded styles. In styling his space after Piranesi, Mr. Koolhaas conveys the image of something infernal. What we see here is not a scene of mechanical efficiency but a spookily Nietzschean display of power.
What do these projects all add up to? That architects can now do weird, scary things? Yes, and also that the public sphere has become weird and scary, at least to those who are made uncomfortable by the degree to which the line between public and private realms has become porous. These are all public buildings. But they project subjective points of view. And they reflect the increasing transformation of the public realm into a stage for the acting out of dreams.
With good reason, people fear that this is a time of withdrawal from the public realm, a time in which objective reality has become an embattled concept. The public realm, it often seems, has been reduced to an arena in which everything is an opinion, all opinions are equal, and truth doesn't stand a chance. These feats of architectural imagination offer no reassurance that such fears are groundless. They do, however, confront those fears, with awareness, sensuousness and rigor. And they suggest that the public realm, while an indispensable fantasy, is a fantasy nonetheless.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Delano hotel in Miami Beach--Pass through the hedge and fall into a labyrinth of style. (Oberto Gilli/DKA) (pg. 1); Frank Gehry's design for the new Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, above. (Courtesy of Frank O. Gehry & Associates); Jean Nouvel's design for the Paris headquarters of the advertising agency CLM/BBDO, left. (Courtesy of the Storefront for Art and Architecture); A design for the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York, far left. (Raimund Abraham/Museum of Modern Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (67%); AUSTRIA (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (67%); AUSTRIA (64%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (64%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; GEHRY, FRANK; KOOLHAAS, REM; NOUVEL, JEAN; STARCK, PHILIPPE; ABRAHAM, RAIMUND FRANK GEHRY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



143 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 8; Column 6; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE INTERACTIVE ENCYCLOPEDIA, 2015 EDITION: WELFARE, END OF

 BODY:
DeParle's "back to the future" look at the United States in 2015 contends that Aid to Families With Dependent Children is the glue that holds this country together and that in its absence chaos will ensue. However, a look at the past 20 years hardly suggests that A.F.D.C. has solved the problems of the poor. If anything, the increases in single-parent families, teen-age pregnancies, teen-age unemployment and crime, child abuse and other markers of social decline seem to indicate just the opposite. 
 I have no way of knowing what effect block grants will have on welfare recipients. Neither does DeParle. What we both should know, however, is that the current system needs to be rethought. And rather than politicize the process, Democrats and Republicans should be actively collaborating on experimental efforts to reverse the social blight that A.F.D.C. was intended to erase. If block grants don't work, let's try something else. But let's stop the finger-pointing and the mindless defense of a system that has clearly failed to live up to its promise.

MICHAEL A. COHEN
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: F-D-C CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%); 

PERSON: COHEN, MICHAEL A; DEPARLE, JASON MICHAEL A COHEN NEW YORK (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



144 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Cameron King, Marc Schoenfeld

 BODY:
Cameron Gay King, a public relations executive in New York, was married on Monday to Marc Jonathan Schoenfeld, the director of legal and business affairs for Madison Square Garden in New York. Judge Barrington D. Parker Jr. of the United States District Court in Manhattan officiated at La Belle Epoque, a restaurant in Manhattan.
Ms. King, who is keeping her name, is a vice president of Gavin Anderson & Company, a financial public relations company. She graduated magna cum laude from Middlebury College, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. She received an M.B.A. from Columbia University and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Stuttgart in Germany. 
 She is the daughter of Nancy M. King of Pottersville, N.J., and the late Robert W. King, who was a partner in Schenck, Price, Smith & King, a law firm in Morristown, N.J.
Mr. Schoenfeld graduated cum laude from the State University at Binghamton, N.Y., where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He received a law degree from New York University. He is the son of David A. Schoenfeld of Hicksville, L.I., and the late Linda S. Schoenfeld. The bridegroom's father, who is retired, taught history and economics at Lincoln High School in Brooklyn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (72%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SCHENCK PRICE SMITH & KING LLP (83%); KREAB GAVIN ANDERSON WORLDWIDE (72%); PHI BETA KAPPA (83%); PHI BETA KAPPA (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (83%); PHI BETA KAPPA (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); 

PERSON: KING, CAMERON (CAMERON SCHOENFELD); SCHOENFELD, MARC BARRINGTON D PARKER JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



145 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 17; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX;
Good for Business, Not New Jersey

BYLINE: By ROBERT ANGELO; Robert Angelo operates Capitol Ideas, a consulting firm to unions that specializes in legislative, educational and workplace services.

DATELINE: MILLTOWN

 BODY:
A FAMILIAR roadside billboard offers this message: "A Better Business Climate Means More Jobs." It's a catchy little phrase, a variation on the old adage, "What's Good for Business Is Good for America." They both have the ring of common sense. But last week's bombshell from AT&T -- the decision to lay off 40,000 employees, including as many as 7,000 in New Jersey -- shows how wrong common sense can be.
Over the last year, New Jersey corporations have re-engineered hundreds of jobs out of existence, while hundreds more have been lost when companies moved out of state. The recent closing of the Wonder Bread bakery in East Brunswick alone cost the state 500 jobs. 
 Companies have yielded to the demands of their investors who want their financial position maximized, even if it means undercutting or eliminating the positions of loyal and skilled workers. The record of recent business downsizings shows that the more severely a company cuts wages, benefits and the work force, the more respect it gains in the financial community. Lean and mean corporations are the darlings of Wall Street.
Workers in New Jersey are having a lot of trouble coming to terms with the mean side. What happened to the lessons learned in schools, churches and homes that hard work and a clean record are rewarded with a solid job and at least a measure of economic security? What happened to the hallowed notion that companies have some measure of loyalty to their workers and their communities? Or that American workers share to some degree in the fruits of increased productivity?
And beyond all that, what happened to our assumptions that our elected representatives would fight for the rights of workers?
The pro-business agenda, so popular these days in Trenton, simply reflects the philosophy of those highway billboards: Let business do what business "must" do. If that means leaving the state or paring jobs to the bone, so be it.
Last year, Governor Whitman bragged about the new jobs that have been created by her administration, which she attributed to her tax cuts. The theory is that New Jersey will attract more businesses because their employees will be paying lower tax rates. In fact, the vast majority of these new jobs are minimum-wage or part-time work. That must be of little solace to the thousands of New Jerseyans who learned last week that they are not needed anymore, and who will now pay a high social, personal and economic price.
The truth is that the vaunted Whitman tax rollback has done little to halt or even slow down the loss of quality jobs in our state. The emphasis has been on finding ways to pay for the tax cuts with raids on pension funds, stretching out debt payments, privatization and optimistic revenue predictions. A tax reduction cannot seem like much of an answer for the thousands of New Jerseyans who have lost their jobs to corporate downsizing or privatization schemes.
Instead of accepting the human tragedy of unemployment as merely the cost of doing business in a global economy, the Governor should step forward on workers' behalf and let the corporate community know that the "better business climate" they want so badly must include a sense of fair treatment, human compassion and community responsibility.
Then, she should start using the tools we have, and find new ones, to preserve our quality jobs, and to develop a new generation of skilled and knowledgeable workers capable of attracting new employers to the state.
For example, she should demand additional funds for successful training initiatives like the New Jersey Work Force Development Partnership Program. She should give community colleges incentives to provide more educational options in forward-looking areas like healthcare and technology. She should increase the use of state programs that reward employers who maintain or develop new quality jobs.
The AT&T layoffs should send a strong message to Trenton: There comes a time when what's good for business may be bad for the rest of us, and that time has come to New Jersey.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AT&T CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (84%); TAX LAW (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); RELOCATIONS (69%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); BAKERIES (54%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); ANGELO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



146 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Bad for Real Estate, Good for the Arts

BYLINE: By AMY D'ORIO 

 BODY:
DAVE BORAWSKI of East Hartford decided to have an art show this spring, but he didn't approach galleries or museums. Instead, he approached city landlords.
Within the time it would take galleries just to view a few slides, Mr. Borawski said, he secured space, and free space, too, for his one-day show. The space was empty, so why not, said John Pinone, one of the owners of Hartford's Civic Cafe. Mr. Pinone even called it good business because many of his restaurant patrons support the arts. 
 This was not Mr. Borawski's first time setting up a temporary gallery in empty office space. Last year, he received permission to have a monthlong show in an empty building in Middletown. Some of his friends, he said, used an old Shelton girdle factory for an exhibition.
Not all is free, but space has certainly become less expensive to rent, making it possible for a group of young artists in Danbury, among others, to start a gallery to display their work every day.
One of the artists, Chris Durante, said trying to get a show at a gallery is hard enough, being young and unconventional makes it almost impossible. To have their own gallery, and one that's only a few steps from Main Street, definitely changes their prospects. Mr. Durante said the low rent made the gallery, called 13, financially possible.
Indeed, because of Connecticut's glut of empty office and industrial space, artists are finding opportunities they did not have in the bustling 1980's.
"It almost seems like a windfall," Mr. Pinone said.
Especially since artists do not have the best reputation as good tenants, said Michael Roer, president of the Bridgeport Innovation Center. Besides taking up only small spaces, artists often do not pay on time and many try to live in studios, which can create zoning problems, he explained.
Mr. Roer says he rents to artists because he believes it is good for the community. Other business executives do not share his views, but they too are currently carving up large warehouse spaces and creating studios for artists because the real estate market dictates it.
Some landlords even offer free exhibition space to attract the artists. "We are getting a lot of cooperation from the depressed real estate market," said Linda Dente, a Connecticut Commission on the Arts program manager.
These opportunities have resulted in slightly offbeat showcases, but it has stimulated the arts community, she said.
"Strange venues," Ms. Dente said. "Then, again, if you live your life in the arts, it is not so strange."
Artists are often the first to arrive in a depressed area, attracted to the low rent. They help revitalize the community, Ms. Dente said.
This cycle is so well established that business organizations actually seek out the partnerships when tough times come.
"It is a 20-year cycle that keeps happening," Ms. Dente said. "The arts are always the first to come back to urban centers. Then, things begin to percolate."
While the arts are good for revitalization, revitalization is not always good for the arts. Once there is a healthy real estate market, rising rents make it hard for many arts organizations and artists to exist, Ms. Dente said.
She said she hoped the business community would protect the artist during this cycle because the arts deserved a permanent home in each community.
In the 1980's in downtown Hartford, the real estate boom took a thriving arts community and slaughtered it, said Will K. Wilkins, executive director of Real Art Ways of Hartford.
Organizations were forced from their downtown locations because of incoming highrises.
Real Art Ways moved three different times.
"We were one of the few that survived," Mr. Wilkins said, adding that he does not intend to subject his organization to such tumult again.
In 1989, he moved his organization from downtown Hartford to a place where he hopes is a haven from the ups and downs of real estate: Arbor Street in Hartford's Parkville section.
"It is a working-class neighborhood, so it won't ever be gentrified," he said.
Real Art Ways signed a 30-year lease for a 12,500-square-foot space and is planning a major renovation of it.
If the money can be raised, as it is hoped, the organization plans to expand by building a 200-seat movie theater, a 235-seat performance theater, three gallery exhibition spaces, a cafe for 125 people and an outdoor concert arena.
The landlord, Paul Sciarra, owns 225,000 square feet of space on Arbor Street. He said he never planned to rent to artists, but he could not afford to turn them away.
"My motto was, 'Just fill it,' " he said.
In hindsight, renting to Real Art Ways turned out to be a good business decision, Mr. Sciarra said. After Real Art Ways set up on Arbor Street six other arts-related organizations followed.
Now, he estimates about 20 percent of his tenants are artists or art-related businesses.
Not only do they rent from him, but he has found their presence helps him market his building, because they attract publicity and foot traffic.
Mr. Sciarra and Mr. Wilkins seem to have formed an alliance, one that portends to be long term.
Mr. Sciarra said he no longer expected to lease to large companies even if the economy approves. His game plan is to keep the arts organizations and artists -- as well as other small businesses -- in his buildings.
Joan Appicelli, manager of Erector Square in New Haven, has a similar situation.
Erector Square is a 400,000-square-foot complex in Fair Haven.
Gardella Brothers, a trucking business, purchased the property in 1969 because its customers needed warehouse space. Slowly, this need diminished and the Gardella Brothers rented to a few large companies.
But these companies moved out one by one, as part of the overall exodus of manufacturing from Connecticut.
"We got more and more calls from artists," Ms. Appicelli said.
With the 400,000 square feet of space to rent, Ms. Appicelli was not keen to let out small spaces to individual artists, but one floor of Erector Square was divided up into studio space.
"We could not get the walls up fast enough," she said.
Now, about 30 percent of her tenants are artists. Ms. Appicelli is certain large-scale manufacturing will not return to Erector Square. Large companies find it more efficient to operate in other parts of the country, plus, they prefer buildings that do not have multiple floors.
She said artists and small businesses are now part of her permanent market, and therefore, she has cultivated an environment to attract these customers. She provides juried shows and runs a gallery. Erector Square sponsors shows, and artists are also allowed to rent space for their own exhibitions.
Like Mr. Sciarra, she too has found the artists have helped promote her buildings. She said some tenants were initially not pleased with the Fair Haven neighborhood, but then they see the gallery "and it changes their outlook."
Some large landlords may always need to rent to artists now that major manufacturing has left Connecticut Mr. Roer said.
When the economy gets better, however, they will again be the exception and not the rule. As Mr. Roer sees it, communities must engineer a way for the arts to exist in every economic condition because the arts are good for business in good times as well as bad.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Danbury, Chris Durante, bearded and reviewing film, above, and other young artists found low-rent space just a few steps from Main Street for their Gallery 13. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REAL ESTATE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LINGERIE MFG (54%); 

PERSON: D'ORIO, AMY SIR GEORGE YOUNG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



147 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Westport;
The Curious Case of a Cobblestone, 7-Sided, 19th-Century Barn

BYLINE: By BOBBI P. MARKOWITZ 

 BODY:
A CURIOUS-SHAPED cobblestone barn, nestled behind the Westport Historical Society's headquarters in the center of town, is finding a new career as a municipal museum.
The Bradley-Wheeler Barn and the Wheeler House headquarters were purchased by the historical society in 1981. Although the house had been inhabited and well-maintained from 1795 to 1980, the barn, which was built between 1846 and 1857, had been neglected since the 1920's. Having raised enough money to complete restoration of the Italianate house, it was time to concentrate on the collapsing barn. 
 In 1984 a 12-member committee was formed to consider the building's future. The crumbling carriage barn would be a challenge indeed. The committee, headed by Leo Cirino, a longtime resident of Westport and a teacher in Bridgeport, hired an architect, Robert T. Gault, to provide some guidance.
"We had a deteriorated historical structure which was unsafe and literally collapsing," Mr. Cirino said. "When we started we had absolutely no idea as to where we were going and what costs would be involved because there was no precedent. We took it step by step."
The committee determined a working construction budget of $300,000 to $350,000. Eve Potts, an active proponent of preserving the history of Westport and a founding member of the barn restoration committee, said: "It's always expensive to do a project like this. Funding is invariably a problem, and this was no exception. It has taken us 10 years because of the ups and downs we've had with financing."
Ms. Potts researched and wrote proposals for grants. "You really have to fish around and do your homework," she said. "In order to receive grants, you first need to have a viable project. However, the Federal Government has just about dried up as has state funding."
The project received some money from the state's Economic Development Agency and a grant from the Connecticut Historic Commission. Fund-raising events included everything from selling cobblestones to peddling popcorn. Joanne Woodward and Paul Newman stepped in. "Joanne was honorary chairman at our very first fund-raiser," Ms. Potts said. "She's done everything from stuffing envelopes to running galas." And the popcorn was Newman's Own.
Because the fundamental goal of the barn committee was to preserve the integrity of the building, among its first undertakings was determining its original use. From the fall of 1985 through the spring of 1986, an investigation by a then-graduate student in archeology at Yale, Cindy McWeeney, yielded valuable information.
The barn, which has an octagonal roof, has only seven side walls. With excavation it was determined that the structure was not a true octagon and perhaps had been connected to another building at some time. Ceramic shards, glass, food remains and other items found during the dig provided the historical society with clues to the culture of the time, and how to proceed with an authentic restoration.
The exact use of the cobblestone carriage house was never fully established, but speculation fueled lively discussion. Perhaps the cellar was a storage place for vegetables, or even ice. A blacksmith shop theory was quickly nixed because there was no outlet for the top of the chimney and no soot deposit in the flue or any evidence of it ever having been used. Ms. McWeeney thought the light paint and cool interior suggested the barn might have been used for a dairy.
Experts from the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the Historic Connecticut Historic Commission also lent their expertise to the barn project. In addition, engineers were consulted for masonry restoration, strengthening the foundations and deploying the hydraulic jacks necessary for the final exterior restoration.
Mr. Gault described the difficulties inherent in restoration architecture. "Essentially, you're doing things backwards," he said. "You have to take things apart, repair them and put them back. At the same time, you have to be careful not to destroy something from history."
Some supporters, however, were anxious to accomplish the goal quickly and get the museum into use. But others feared a speedy approach might have jeopardized the historic preservation aspect. Three structural engineers advised the committee to just take down the building. But Mr. Gault kept exploring alternatives.
The process began with analysis of the mortar, to formulate what would be used in restoration. It followed with stabilization of existing mortar materials and with the shoring up of the cobblestone walls as well as putting a temporary enclosure over the barn.
All the stones were photographed, removed, numbered and stored away. Liquid grout was pumped into the walls to fill the void. Likewise, the rafters were removed, labeled, documented and replaced. The barn doors and all wood framing were restored. Window repair and rehanging plus a new wooden roof (including soffits, lath, plaster and wood shingles) were completed in the fall of 1994.
And yet, Ms. Potts said, all of this work was preliminary to the true task of the historical society: turning the interior space into a working museum that will tell the story of Westport.
The committee is again at work, this time with a fund-raising campaign to cover costs of interior finishing, lighting and exhibits is under way. Naiad and Walter Einsel, artists who have designed exhibits for Epcot and the Barnum Museum, are working on plans.
The museum will include a time line using photographs and artifacts to teach the history of Westport's past, from its days as a sleepy farming village through its years when a thriving market economy was based on farm products and oysters, and on to the boom years when onions were exported.
Featured will be many of the businesses and industries that flourished as the town grew. Its development as a resort community, with seasonal estates on former farmland, the Irish and Italian immigrants, its discovery by artists and illustrators, the summer colonies at the beaches and the suburban growth after World War II will all be documented.
With the objective in sight, Ms. Potts said, "Westport is really an unusual town. We look forward to giving people an overview of its history."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cleanup and restoration work is under way as the Westport Historical Society develops a municipal museum. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEWMAN'S OWN INC (51%); WESTPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (82%); HISTORIC CONNECTICUT HISTORIC COMMISSION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (82%); HISTORIC CONNECTICUT HISTORIC COMMISSION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BARNS; MUSEUMS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); 

PERSON: MARKOWITZ, BOBBI P EVE POTTS (66%); ROBERT T GAULT (66%); JOANNE GIGNILLIAT WOODWARD (55%); BRADLEY-WHEELER BARN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



148 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 7; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: A Veto Upsets L.I. Vintners

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
GOV. George E. Pataki's veto of a bill that would have allowed small wineries to ship directly to out-of-state customers has left a sour taste on the East End. Vintners there and the New York Farm Bureau said the proposal, which would have permitted shipping two cases a year to customers in the 12 states that allow out-of-state deliveries, would have benefited premium-wine producers and helped tourism and the economy.
"Right now, we can't ship anywhere outside of New York, which is very limiting for our sales," said Kip Bedell of Bedell Cellars, a 30-acre winery in Cutchogue. "People come in from all over the country to buy our wines. They may take a few bottles, but they can't carry a case home with them on the plane. They want it shipped." 
 Mr. Pataki said in his veto message that the measure would hurt state-licensed liquor stores. He said it might also backfire on the small vineyards by unleashing a flood of mail-order wine from California. California is one of the 12 states with reciprocity. The others are Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Minnesota, Missouri, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin.
A spokesman for the Farm Bureau in Albany, Mark F. Emery, said California wines were already plentiful in liquor stores. "There are already other wines coming in, and they have good access to the New York marketplace," Mr. Emery said.
The East End has 17 wineries and more than 30 vineyards, mostly on the North Fork. Other wine-growing regions are in the Hudson Valley, Chautauqua County and the Finger Lakes, JOHN RATHER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (53%); NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (77%); NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (77%); NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WINES; LAW AND LEGISLATION WINERIES (92%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); WINE (78%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (76%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (76%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); LAKES (72%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



149 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's Budget: Mixed Reactions

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
THE $63.8 billion state budget that Gov. George E. Pataki has proposed is causing consternation and winning good reviews on Long Island -- simultaneously.
The reactions, which mirror widely differing opinions about how Mr. Pataki has treated the Island in his first year in office, shows a widening gap between people who applaud Mr. Pataki's goals to shrink government and lower taxes and people who say his policies abandon the poor, penalize the middle class, gut health care and endanger public education. 
 All sides agree that the coming budget struggle reflects the national debate over the role of government that is unfolding in Washington, where the budget deadlock between President Clinton and the Republican-controlled Congress highlights many issues that Mr. Pataki is addressing.
Like the Republicans in Congress, Mr. Pataki, a Republican who was elected last year on a platform that promised lower taxes, spending reductions and tougher treatment of violent criminals, is focusing on health and welfare programs for major cuts.
His proposed budget would cut $1.1 billion from the $9.1 billion state outlay for the Medicaid program for low-income people. The cut, the biggest in the budget, would help Mr. Pataki follow through on his pledge to reduce taxes.
Supporters point out that Mr. Pataki is only containing the explosive increases in Medicaid costs that are higher in New York than in any other state. Detractors say the cuts are especially harmful to Long Island, because of its sizable elderly population. The critics say many families depend on home-care programs to help tend to the aging.
The budget would also reduce welfare programs and place time limits on eligibility. The plan includes $476 million to add 8,000 prison beds, and in a controversial step it would order that violent prisoners be doubled up in cells.
Although the two county jails on Long Island would not be directly affected, longer sentences approved in Albany last year, coupled with reductions in legal aid, are increasing the number of inmates.
Mr. Pataki proposed no cuts in operating aid for school districts. But education officials on Long Island said cuts in spending on special education would have deep effects on the Island, a region that they say is a leader in such programs.
The proposed budget would also deliver a $300 million reduction in business taxes, benefiting a sector that has been among Mr. Pataki's strongest supporters.
"Most people in the business community would say he is heading the state government in the direction we need it to head in," the president of the Long Island Association, Matthew T. Crosson, said. "The business community recognizes that in order for New York to be economically competitive again the level of taxation has to be reduced."
Critics said spending cuts, in addition to burdening the poor and elderly, would inevitably result in higher property taxes.
"I don't know too many people who make $200,000 a year," the minority leader of the Suffolk County Legislature, Maxine S. Postal, Democrat of Amityville, said. "But those are the people who are going to benefit from the Pataki tax break. These cutbacks in programs are going to impact all the rest of us. What he is doing is terribly harmful to the middle class.
"The impact on local property taxes will be tremendous, because we will have to take up the burden of paying for these programs, and the way we pay is with the local property tax, the least fair way to do it."
The Legislature created a commission last month to study ways to eliminate the property tax. Presiding Officer Donald R. Blydenburgh, Republican of Smithtown, said last week that eliminating the tax would be his highest priority. He proposed a referendum, for November 1997, to eliminate the property taxes that are paid to local school districts. Under such an approach, the property tax could be replaced by higher sales taxes, an income tax or another taxing mechanism.
School officials said a more immediate concern was a failure of the budget to restore financing that they said was lost in a deficit-reduction program five years ago.
The president of the Nassau and Suffolk School Boards Association, Lorraine Deller, said the funds had been restored for other regions of the state. But she added that $191 million in aid that Long Island lost had never been returned. That would be 22.5 percent of the state aid to Nassau and 12 percent of the Suffolk total.
Mrs. Deller said the districts' costs had increased in the last five years by 13.7 percent in Nassau and 9.7 in Suffolk.
Mrs. Deller said the proposal to deny increases in operating aid despite higher enrollments and rising costs was "dangerous not only to the stability of our local school systems, but adds to the burden on local taxpayers."
She said many of the 126 districts had cut costs dramatically in recent years but had run out of areas for additional savings.
An effort to shift special-education costs from the state and counties to local districts is troubling, she said, adding:
"With the state's continuously pulling back on its share of funding for education schools have no other choices but to cut back on programs or go back to the local taxpayers." "It's almost like one hit after another," the executive director of the school boards association, Alice F. Willett, said. "Districts that were getting along pretty well before are now almost hitting bottom."
But many elected officials, groups that advocate tax cuts and business leaders say that high taxes for schools are a leading problem and that education costs grew too swiftly in recent years and had to be pruned.
"I think it is the widespread view of the business community," Mr. Crosson said, "that better business practices, or actually basic business practices, applied to most school districts would allow you to supply better education at significantly lower cost."
In other areas health agencies are bracing for reduced state spending. At the Nassau County Medical Center in East Meadow, the executive director, Joseph R. Erazo, said he could not make "any kind of observation at this juncture" about whether county subsidies would be needed if the proposed Medicaid cuts were enacted.
"We are not the only hospital that will be hit," Mr. Erazo said. "But we will be the hospital of last resort for people who are turned away at other hospitals."
At the county hospital Medicare and Medicaid payments account for 70 percent of the $230 million budget.
Mr. Erazo said the possibility of deep Federal and state cuts in medical programs for low-income people and the uninsured might mean that the hospital would have to be ingenious in carrying out its mission to serve poor people.
"We can't spend what we don't have, and we are facing a phenomenon of such magnitude it is hard for us to plan for it," he said. "Local government is being strained enormously by some of the things being done in Washington. The Governor is piggybacking his budget based on what he is prognosticating will happen in Washington. So we are in a very difficult situation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: SUFFOLK SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (58%); MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); PRISONS (86%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); LEGAL AID (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); AGING (64%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



150 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH AND WELFARE;
As Cutbacks Loom, Advocates for Poor Brace for a Hard Year

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
No year is bountiful for the people who feed and house the poor, the hungry and the homeless. But the prospects of this particular new year are making people at New Jersey's nonprofit social-service agencies flinch.
It is not so much that lawmakers in Washington are shifting responsibility for welfare and other social services into the hands of the states, and requiring single mothers on welfare to find jobs. It is that the programs that would enable these parents to succeed -- job training, literacy classes, subsidized day care and housing, emergency meals and medical care -- are being drastically cut as well. 
 "I grimly predict that 1996, for so many nonprofits, will be sliding back down the ladder to survival mode," said Anne Miller Christensen, director of development at Let's Celebrate in Jersey City. This center, organized by a group of local churches, runs 15 emergency food pantries and 4 soup kitchens that serve 83,000 lunches a year; it has social workers who counsel 2,500 people a year, and it operates a culinary-arts training school for the homeless. Running such a nonprofit agency for the poor, she said, is "like being on a squirrel-cage wheel."
Directors of nonprofit social-service agencies say donations of time and money from individuals have been and will probably continue to be reasonably generous, considering the extent to which most people are pressed for each. But there are fewer and fewer Federal dollars, which provide the backbone of nearly all of New Jersey's social services.
Republicans in Washington disagree that the 1996 budget will hurt New Jersey's poor. "We're not cutting government spending," said Representative Jim Saxton, the Burlington County Republican who is vice chairman of Congress's Joint Economic Committee. "We've just slowed the pace down from what the big spenders in the White House would prefer. Under the Republican seven-year balanced budget plan, most Federal programs will receive more dollars in 1996 than they did in 1995."
New Jersey may be a relatively rich state, with the country's second-highest per capita income. But an unusually high percentage of its poor residents are badly in need of adequate housing -- the state ranks seventh in percentage of low-income residents with severe housing problems.
Although the Federal budget stalemate makes it impossible to predict how much money the state will receive for social-service programs in 1996, advocates widely expect that grants for many social services will be cut in half. That is the money that provides, for instance, nearly 60 percent of the support for the 20-week job-training program at Let's Celebrate in Jersey City. The paradox, Ms. Christensen said, is that without such training, many people on welfare will have no way to become self-reliant.
Most of the 70 or so people who graduate each year from the Jersey City culinary arts school -- who learn cooking, reading and math -- get jobs and keep them. Currently, 66 percent of its graduates are working full time in restaurants or catering companies, including a number of single mothers newly able support themselves and their children.
"The program has been working, but it can't work without funding," said Ms. Christensen. "Everybody thinks: Grumble, grumble, I'm working so hard -- these people don't want to work. That's just not true. There's such a yearning desire of people we know to move up and out. What these folks need is some of the ingredients, in the right order and the right strength. If the right ingredients are missing, it's never going to work."
Barbara Aaronoff, director of the Interfaith Council for the Homeless in Union County, echoes those sentiments. Proposed cuts in state human services money, including money for subsidized day care, will prevent those on welfare from becoming self-supporting, she said.
"Most of the clients I see want to work," she said. "But they need training, education, child care. There needs to be some process so they can go to work."
Advocates for better housing say the prospects for the homeless are no better. "We're going backward," said Matthew Reed, director of the Tenants Preservation Project in Trenton, a group that represents 60,000 subsidized rental households. "Funding is terrible, and the programs themselves are under attack. It's one thing to have to tell people, 'Things are going to get tight.' It's another to say, 'Next year there's no way to tell if you're going to have a place to live.' "
About 120,000 New Jersey families are on waiting lists for subsidized housing. Because no new units are being added, that figure should increase in 1996, Mr. Reed said. The wait, which averages three to six years, may well extend years longer. For the first time since the Government began the Section 8 program for subsidized housing, qualified low-income renters will not be guaranteed renewals of assistance in 1996.
State cuts in housing subsidies are probable; Federal cuts are all but certain, Mr. Reed said. New Jersey's big cities -- Newark, Jersey City, Trenton -- may well wind up with more residents balancing on the margin, or falling into homelessness and destitution. But smaller cities and towns, he said, will come to realize that they too have residents who depend on subsidized housing and other programs.
"The magnitude of proposed cuts are severe enough that it's difficult for people to imagine," he said. "City councilmen, mayors, state officials -- they'll all be in the position of having to pick up the pieces."
The State Legislature may offer advocates like Mr. Reed some good news in an otherwise unrelievedly gloomy outlook for 1996. A $290 million bond issue to develop inexpensive housing is under consideration for the November ballot. This would be an example of the state's taking over a task long handled by the Federal Government.
But people in nonprofit agencies are not hopeful that volunteer workers and donors can fill the need left by Federal cutbacks in other areas. Services for the homeless and poor are simply too labor-intensive to be done entirely by volunteers, said Ms. Christensen of Let's Celebrate.
"We spend all our time stitching the basics together," she went on. "We think, Gee, if only we didn't have to spend all our energy on mere survival. If only we could use our brilliance, our smarts, on putting together bigger and better solutions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Let's Celebrate, a nonprofit coalition in Jersey City, says its services, like this soup kitchen, will have to fight to survive in 1996. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA JIM SAXTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



151 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Congressional Deadlock As a Campaign Tool

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson is Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A little more than a year ago the Republicans were campaigning against Democratic gridlock on Congress, and we all know what happened: the Democrats got creamed.
Now we are beginning to hear the Democrats campaign against Republican deadlock, specifically, Gingrichian deadlock, in Congress. Will Republicans be hoist on their own petard? Representative Robert G. Torricelli, the likely Democratic nominee in the United States Senate race this year, is itching to light the fuse. 
 "These weeks of deadlock define the race for the U.S. Senate," Mr. Torricelli said in an interview. It will be the contention of the Democratic campaign that the Zimmer record is indistinguishable from Newt Gingrich and that nothing demonstrates this better than the Zimmer votes to keep the Government closed.
"Zimmer," of course, is Representative Richard A. Zimmer of Hunterdon County, the presumptive Republican nominee to go against Mr. Torricelli. His response is a variant of "not so fast."
"If we shut down the Government," Mr. Zimmer began, and then cheerfully corrected himself, "I mean, if Clinton shuts down the Government to no useful end, there will be long-term problems for us. But if this strategy to bring about the first balanced budget in generations succeeds, I think it will be worth the short-term cost."
In other words, if the Republicans can deliver the balanced budget, voters won't care in November that the passport office shut down over Christmas.
So who holds the best hand? Looked at from Mr. Zimmer's point of view, the idea of a little pain now for a lot of gain later is appealing, and the alternative appalling: when the big banks cut their interest rates two weeks ago, they did so on the expectation that the Zimmers in Congress would deliver on the balanced budget and therefore reduce the Government's need to borrow.
If the poll numbers are to be believed, the Republican stonewalling is unpopular, even frightening for many voters; yet if the same pollsters ask, "Do you think Congress and the President should reach a balanced budget?" they unhesitatingly say yes.
One reason for this popular unhappiness with a policy that is popular on paper is that many people are uncomfortable when they are told by Mr. Zimmer and his party to put their values to a test: You want a balanced budget? Then what are you prepared to cut?
The two sides of that coin are likely to be the two sides of the Torricelli-Zimmer contest this year, and New Jerseyans should consider themselves lucky to be the arbiters of such a classic social science debate.
With the memory of the shutdown fading, Mr. Torricelli will point out that Mr. Zimmer has voted consistently with his quixotic leader, Speaker Gingrich, to end entitlements to Medicaid and welfare, thereby cutting the growth in Federal funds to New Jersey. He will say that making Medicare patients pay at least $800 a year in higher premiums by the end of 2002 (when the budget is supposed to be balanced) is cruel, when many Medicare recipients subsist on Social Security stipends of less than $14,000 per year. And that just as the cuts in Federal subsidies will hurt the poorest and benefit the richest, so Mr. Gingrich's changes in environmental rules will chiefly benefit investors.
And he will point out that as the budget impasse dragged on, not even Senator Bob Dole of Kansas was willing to continue the standoff, while Mr. Gingrich, and Mr. Zimmer, stuck to their guns. "There is this ideological extremism that has gained disproportionate control of the Federal Government," Mr. Torricelli said. "It is so extreme, even Bob Dole won't go along with it."
Mr. Zimmer conceded that some members of the House Republican Caucus were uncomfortable with the prolonged shutdown, but not many. "Regardless of some differences in conference, there is close to unanimous support for hanging tough," he said. Translation: It's too late to turn back.
In November, New Jerseyans will be able to choose which version they like best.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MEDICAID (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CHRISTMAS (64%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); ZIMMER, RICHARD A (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



152 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
From Discounts to Diaspora: A Bazaar Starts to Fold Its Tent

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. SMITH 

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
A handwritten sign in Craft Plus says "Clearance Store Wide."
For the proprietor, Rebecca Mutahi, storewide is an 8-by-10-foot stall she rents at U.S. No. 1 Flea Market & Antiques. The clearance is necessary because the market -- an everything-under-the-sun bazaar that may be the state's largest indoor venue for independent discount merchants -- will soon be torn down to make room for a 16-screen movie theater. 
 Ms. Mutahi, 24, who came to America from Kenya in 1993, established her African art and jewelry business a year ago. She stands to lose a $12,000 investment, most of it borrowed on credit cards, she said. She will try to sell her remaining inventory and then seek work in data entry.
"It's like running from a lion into a hot fire," she said. "It's so frustrating."
Since its opening in October 1975 in the hulk that was once the Great Eastern discount department store, the U.S. No. 1 Flea Market has been a destination not only for antiques buyers but also for bargain hunters seeking new clothing and household goods, tapes and toys, gifts and groceries.
It was home to 250 to 400 vendors, depending on the season. Now it has fallen victim to competition from proliferating malls, the retail recession -- and a better offer.
Sony Theaters of New York has signed a long-term lease for the 35-acre site with its owner, the Sheldon Elizabeth Company of Roseland. Plans call for a 60,000-square-foot theater, two restaurants of between 200 and 300 seats each and a 70,000-square-foot retail space to open in the fall.
In October, vendors were told that the market would close on Dec. 31. But the 140-member merchants' association argued that notice was too short and won an extension until March 31. However, the diaspora of mom-and-pop businesses from the market has already begun.
Some are moving to a smaller rival, the Route 18 Market in East Brunswick. Some are looking for stand-alone stores or good deals on mall space.
Wayne Shiao, 40, owner of the Gold Mart, said he would use the extension to find a location combining low rent and high security for his jewelry business. Mr. Shiao, who came to the United States from Taiwan in 1980, had a store on Long Island for seven years and has been at the U.S. No. 1 Flea Market for three. Mr. Shiao was taking the move in stride, calling it "a small problem."
Others are expressing more anxiety. Jim Morrison, 58, of Jim's Auto Improvement Center, an accessories supplier, estimates he will have to spend $500 a month on inventory storage and at least $10,000 to move.
"I'm prepared to go a year without an income," said Mr. Morrison, who is looking at a space in Union but fears that his current local patrons will not drive that far to buy from him.
Sham Rao, 38, a native of Bombay, India, has already established a second location for his Bare Essentials lingerie store in Union. But the U.S. No. 1 site, he said, does about 30 percent more business.
For some, the prospect of leaving such well-trafficked aisles has been devastating. When word about the closing came just before the busy Christmas season, one long-established vendor suffered a nervous breakdown.
"He can't handle it," said his wife and business partner, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We're being forced into early retirement."
Meanwhile, the owners of Phoenix, which has been selling clothing, crafts, incense and gifts at the market for 20 years, are using the flea market's closing as an opportunity.
The owners, Michael Peler, 46, and Kathy Dobozinski, 42, will relocate to a branch they opened in Beach Haven five years ago. But because it's only a seasonal Jersey-shore location they will keep in touch with customers year-round through a catalogue and an 800 number.
"One door closes and another opens up," Mr. Peler said. "It's just part of life."
John McGhee, 59, of the Donigan Collection is also maintaining his optimism. Mr. McGhee, who began selling collectible figurines of black Americans four years ago after a 27-year career at the Ford Motor Company plant in nearby Edison, plans to travel the craft show circuit this spring and then open a store in downtown New Brunswick.
"We've got a good clientele now," Mr. McGhee said. "We can make the jump to a storefront."
Mayor James Cahill of New Brunswick said the city's economic and community development offices have offered to help merchants relocate.
Responding to complaints that that the Sony multiplex will employee only 60 people, Mr. Cahill said that few flea market vendors live in New Brunswick and their profits largely go elsewhere. He also said Sony's estimated $10 million project would increase the taxable value of the property.
The vendors have been here on a month-to-month basis. So has Ray Travis, the market's manager, who in 1975 leased the empty 175,000-square-foot department store on Route 1 South overlooking the Raritan River and opened its doors to retail entrepreneurs.
"It's an expensive piece of property to operate, and the money ultimately comes from the floor," said Mr. Travis, who declined to give specific figures but said the market could never generate the rent that Sony can afford to pay.
Mr. Travis has offers to manage other markets. As for the merchants he rented to, he said: "I've watched people come to rent space and they didn't have nickel one or know what they were doing," he said. "And they got started and changed their world around.
"They're going to be all right," he said, "because these are some of the best and toughest merchants I've ever known."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of vendors will be displaced by a new 16-screen movie theater. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (57%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY THEATERS FLEA MARKET&ANTIQUES (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONY THEATERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BRUNSWICK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FLEA MARKETS; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); MOTION PICTURES; VENDORS, STREET RETAILERS (90%); FILM (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (75%); JEWELRY (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: SMITH, RICHARD D JOHN MCGHEE (61%); JIM MORRISON (61%); WAYNE SHIAO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



153 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: For Homeless, a Long, Cold Winter Ahead

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
LIKE other homeless people who sleep on benches in the train station here, 40-year-old Brenda Chester lives precariously in the winter, seeking warmth from the few rays of sunlight that make it through the dusty windows of the waiting room.
Naomi Williams, an educator for the Sharing Community, a church-sponsored organization that feeds and shelters the poor and homeless, said of Ms. Chester: "More and more I fear that some of them like her will die. There's a long, cold winter ahead." 
 This winter could be especially hard for Ms. Chester, who was recently denied all public benefits for six months because she failed to comply with some of the county's newly tightened regulations. An admitted former heroin and crack addict who now drinks heavily, she said she was penalized because she did not file required medical documents with the county's Department of Social Services.
"Now I'm always in danger, living this way," she said, angry at having to fend for herself. "Life's hard out here."
But life may get even more difficult for Ms. Chester and the 3,600 other homeless people in Westchester this winter. Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget for 1996-97 sharply limits welfare benefits and encourages work and independence. The Governor contends that his plan would, among other things, discourage poor people from moving to the state in search of generous benefits.
Critics, however, say Mr. Pataki's plan would only cause further despair among the state's needy and throw many onto the streets, further swelling the ranks of the homeless.
According to the County Department of Social Services, there are 743 single homeless people in Westchester and 871 homeless families with 1,792 homeless children. The figures are incomplete, however, because they do not indicate how many adults are in each household.
Officials say the causes of homelessness vary, ranging from eviction by family or friends because of overcrowding -- by far, the most common reason -- to eviction for other reasons, including nonpayment of rent, burned-out housing, discharge from hospitals and other institutions, domestic violence and drug and alcohol abuse.
Ms. Chester said she was estranged from her male companion and her two daughters when she became addicted to drugs, and she had no place to go but the streets.
In the case of Diane DiNunzio, it was the loss of her job as a practical nurse three years ago and a threatened eviction that took her and her family to the offices of the Department of Social Services. She and her husband, John, who is also unemployed, and their three children were temporarily housed in the Coachman Hotel in White Plains.
The family is planning to move shortly from a one-room apartment in transitional housing to larger quarters.
Mrs. DiNunzio said that her children -- one of them is on the wrestling and football teams and another is on the swimming team -- will continue attending public school in White Plains.
It costs the county about $110 a day to house a homeless family in a motel and $84.37 for a shelter. As of Nov. 30, 21 families and 10 singles or childless couples were in motels, and the rest were in emergency shelters or transitional housing, statistics showed.
Westchester budgeted $46.3 million in 1995 to feed, transport and house its homeless population, almost $4 million more than the year before.
The incidence of homelessness in Westchester is 1.4 percent of the population -- one of the highest rates in the country and even higher than New York City's 1.2 percent. Over a 10-year span, the number of homeless in the county grew to 3,614 last year, from 1,173 in 1985, according to officials.
"Overall, things are getting worse, not better, for a large part of our population," said the Rev. George Anthony Hoeltzel, an Episcopal priest and the executive director of the Sharing Community.
Father Hoeltzel said that his organization, which is financed in part by the county, was formed in 1983 to get people through that winter only, and that it now has a staff of 62 and operates year round, serving meals to the poor and offering shelter to homeless men.
"Here we are 13 years later with even more work before us," he said, observing that attendance at the Sharing Community's Thanksgiving and Christmas soup kitchen dinners hit record highs in 1995.
But Father Hoeltzel was not optimistic that his organization and others like it would be able to continue meeting the needs of the needy. He said the current political climate in Washington and Albany "conjures up visions of Dickens" and bodes ill for the future.
At the Department of Social Services, Marion J. LaFranco, assistant commissioner for housing, agreed that her department was struggling in an environment of tightened budgets to meet the growing needs of its homeless clients.
Father Hoeltzel and Mrs. LaFranco blamed Westchester's high cost of living and its lack of affordable housing for the increasing homeless population.
At the mid-Hudson offices of the Volunteers of America, Clifford D. Schneider, director of the nonprofit social service agency, attributed part of the increase to public institutions for the mentally ill "that send patients home with little more than bus fare."
"The next thing you know is that they're in the shelter system with a bagful of medicine, unable to fend for themselves," Mr. Schneider said. "And we're obligated to offer them more than just three hots and a cot."
The Volunteers of America, which is under contract with the county, runs a center for homeless single men at the County Airport, an emergency drop-in center in Valhalla, a residence for mentally ill and other special-needs homeless people in Yorktown and a shelter in Valhalla for homeless people infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS.
Another nonprofit organization, Westhab, runs about two-thirds of the county's housing for the homeless. Robert Miller, president of the development and management organization, said he oversees 750 units, including a family center in Elmsford, a residence in Greenburgh for men enrolled in a workfare program, the Coachman Hotel for families in transition in White Plains and another family shelter in Mount Vernon.
Westhab also oversees 350 apartments for families in various places in the county and another 150 permanent apartments for families and single people.
Like other officials working with the homeless, Mr. Miller said he was concerned about the political climate shaping public policy for the needy.
"Our biggest worry is the growing feeling throughout the country that the poor and homeless are at fault for their circumstances," Mr. Miller said. "It's unfortunate, but we don't see government at any level willing to put in the resources to solve the problems."
Community workers like Ms. Williams at the Sharing Community, who were once homeless themselves, also criticized government at all levels for the unsympathetic approach to people like Ms. Chester.
In particular, though, Ms. Williams said Westchester's system for the homeless amounted to a "revolving door that takes people in and spits them back out on the street."
But Mrs. LaFranco defended her department's policies, saying clients are put off the rolls only after they repeatedly fail to cooperate. She said all clients are assessed when they first apply for help to determine the cause of homelessness and plan a program of remediation.
"At the beginning we ask questions to find out why they're homeless and if they are employable," she said. "Are they mentally ill, substance abusers or are they just burned out of their house?"
She said clients are turned away only after they repeatedly fail to comply with requirements like attending workfare programs or drug- and alcohol-abuse clinics. Even then, she said, they are given the chance to refute a decision at a public hearing.
"Our goal is to get them back to functioning," she said. "It would be more heartless to just let them languish in the shelter system."
But Laurie Chase, executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless in Westchester, a Yonkers-based advocacy group, said: "Some people simply can't complete the requirements. Are we going to let them freeze to death?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outreach workers from the Sharing Community talk with homeless men in stairwell of a market in Yonkers. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SHARING COMMUNITY (64%); DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHARING COMMUNITY (64%); DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (92%); BUDGETS (90%); EVICTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); COUNTIES (88%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); FAMILY (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); HEROIN (69%); COCAINE (69%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (65%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (65%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (68%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



154 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Q&A: Ray Seidelman;
How Nonvoters Affect Government

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
FOR political junkies, 1995 was a fascinating year, with the Republicans gaining control of both houses of Congress and Newt Gingrich attempting to push through his "revolution." Likewise, 1996, a presidential election year, promises to be equally intriguing: which forces -- liberal or conservative -- will control the country? Does it matter?
One who watches closely is Prof. Ray Seidelman, a political science professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers since 1982, who specializes in American politics, voting and political participation. He sees the country divided not so much by conservative-vs.-liberal forces as by the fact that so many of the poor and working class disfranchise themselves by not voting. The result, he says, is an elite democracy. 
 Professor Seidelman is the co-author (with Bruce Miroff and Todd Swanstrom) of two college textbooks. The more recent, "Debating Democracy: A reader in American Politics" (Houghton Mifflin) is scheduled for publication this year. A resident of Ossining, he was an antiwar activist in the late 1960's as a college student and active in the 1970's in the Democratic Party.
Professor Seidelman taught a year in China for Johns Hopkins University and was a Fulbright Scholar in Korea. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with him:
Q. You believe that people do not vote more out of dissatisfaction than because of apathy?
A. Yes. The conventional explanation is that people are apathetic. That implies that they don't care: they don't think they will make any difference or that they're not very knowledgeable. I combat that explanation by some of the research I have done.
Generally speaking, the case I try to make is that it's not people who have left the political system but that the political system has left them. The language that the political system speaks -- talking about the deficit and entrepreneurial language like "we have to revive business and give capital-gains tax cuts to business" -- doesn't turn on most people, especially those who don't vote.
Therefore, people perceive politics as defined by terms and languages and debates they really don't understand. And there's good reason they don't understand it. The political debate is geared toward the affluent and doesn't speak to the concerns of people who are not affluent.
Q. Do people feel that no matter what they do it will not make a difference?
A. Most of the polls of nonvoters -- and for that matter many of the polls of voters -- demonstrate that it's not so much apathy as exactly what you said -- people don't feel they can make a difference, and they don't feel their vote will necessarily matter. Politics seems to come from on high; it's something other people do.
That serves the interest of very powerful interests in American politics in the sense that it confines politics to people who have the resources to participate, especially those with money.
The political system becomes much more geared toward the affluent, those people who have those kinds of resources, such as E-mail, the ability to call members of Congress and the ability to send out a check or give out a credit card number over the phone to a political organization, whether it be the National Rifle Association or the American Association of Retired Persons.
These organizations become what I call mail-order politics. Instead of encouraging conversations among the people who are their members, they tend to be lobbying organizations concentrated in Washington. And when that happens politics becomes professionalized and dominated by experts.
Q. How do you feel about this?
A. I think it's a real threat to the best traditions of American democracy. It explains why a lot of things that are happening in our economy are just not discussed that much in the current debate in Washington -- such as the tremendous and growing wage inequality, tremendous insecurity most people feel today in their jobs, the absence of pension protection and health care insurance. All these things are mentioned in politics, but they are certainly not mentioned to the extent that they would be if nonvoters voted in massive numbers. That's why our political debate is dominated by things such as tax cuts for the wealthy. We have a Democratic president who to many people sounds like an Eisenhower Republican in the sense that Democrats used to be pro unions.
Q. Do you think things would change if large numbers of working-class people became more active?
A. I certainly do. If you have a party and only invite people who make over $150,000, the conversation is going to be very different from what you'd hear at a party to which you invite lots of poor people. To a certain extent if poor people and middle-class people organize and vote in greater numbers, the agenda of politics would change to reflect their concerns.
People care about these issues, but the parties today are not organized to talk about them. Look at the Democratic Party: about 10 years ago corporate contributions to the Democratic Party began to exceed the amount that came from labor.
So we have a two-party system, one of which is almost totally funded by the affluent, the Republicans; the other of which is, for the most part, also funded by the affluent, the Democrats.
The leadership of the Democratic Party has a problem on its hands. Its money pushes it to the right, but its constituencies remain unorganized. So the party can't come out and talk about opposing Nafta because it insults the business wing of the party. You can't fire Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, whom business loves, and appoint someone who is more concerned with raising wages.
I like to quote an article called "Bowling Alone" by Robert Putnam. In it he says there are more people bowling than ever, but there are fewer people in bowling leagues. He argues that bowling is not just entertainment, it was a way for people to associate with people who would otherwise be strangers.
We have very few means to do that in America today. We tend to look at other people through TV, instead of through grass-roots associations, whether they be political or social or recreational. These mixed people together: they conversed and shared power with each other. There is a big difference between those kinds of associations and, say, being a member of the AARP.
Q. Do you think the country is ripe for a third party?
A. The surveys tend to show that over half of the American public would welcome a third party. The problem is that if you look more closely there is a lot of division among people who want a third party, and that means we would need four or five parties to have a fully represented system. But there are tremendous obstacles to that, such as the election laws for getting on the ballot and the fact that, generally speaking, people who are disgusted with the parties don't participate.
Q. Why is President Clinton suddenly coming up in the polls?
A. Bill Clinton was elected with 43 percent of the vote. He received about one out of five votes of the voting-age population. The Republican Party in 1994 got approximately 51 percent of the 37 percent of those who voted.
So two out of three people almost didn't vote in 1994. We're talking about a narrow slice of the American electorate in both cases. I think to claim that Clinton had a mandate in 1992 or that the Republicans had one in 1994 is wrong in both cases. The central fact in American politics is that elections don't convey mandates anymore.
Once Clinton started talking about things like Republicans stripping Medicare and the Clean Water Act going down the toilet, people responded. But Clinton flip-flops between being a person who talks to ordinary people and a person who advocates moderate-to-conservative social policies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Seidelman in his office at Sarah Lawrence College. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: GREENE, DONNA; SEIDELMAN, RAY (PROF) NEWT GINGRICH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



155 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 4; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: A Plan for the Butternut

BYLINE: By ANNE C. FULLAM 

DATELINE: CROSS RIVER

 BODY:
THE United States Forest Service is looking for a few good butternut trees. A grafting program that it hopes will save the species from a deadly fungus needs more grafting shoots or twigs. Butternut is dying nationwide.
Locally, dead trees were found in the Ward Pound Ridge Reservation in Cross River. A state forester, Robert Herberger, found the specimens growing close to Honey Hollow Creek. One dead tree, estimated to have been 50 years old when it fell in 1987, was girdled with large cankers. A narrower growth encircled a live, 15-year-old specimen nearby. 
 "The shame is that this tree isn't even old enough yet to produce nuts," Mr. Herberger said, pointing to the live tree.
Discovered in Wisconsin in 1967, the disease has spread throughout the range of butternut, which extends from Minnesota to Mississippi to Maine. The nuts are prized by animals and cooks, but butternut trees provide valuable wood known as white walnut. Like its close cousin black walnut, which is not affected by the disease, butternut is used in fine furniture, paneling and woodcarving. Experts say they fear that butternut could disappear if an all-out effort to find disease-resistant trees is not made.
In New York, where butternut is second only to black walnut in economic value, foresters are surveying the entire state for healthy butternut trees. Sick trees exhibit oval-shaped cankers that ooze inky fluid.
"The general symptoms are dieback of twigs and branches or whole trees," said Michael Birmingham, a supervising forester in the state's Department of Environmental Conservation in Albany. "I don't know if a wound by an insect is necessary. It can be wind-borne, or rain splash can spread it or trees with crowns interlocked. The spores require suitable media to germinate. If a tree is wounded by a person hitting it with a lawn mower, it would establish an area for disease. There's no lack or shortage of wounds."
Named for the color of its wood rather than the taste of its nuts, butternut grows to 100 feet and lives about 75 years. A skinny tree by hardwood standards, the butternut's diameter rarely exceeds 4 feet. Butternut grows in moist, rich soil, preferring the banks of streams and the edges of meadows. Shade intolerant, butternut will not produce nuts if there is insufficient sunlight. Before the 1860's, it was used in tanning and known as oil nut.
Butternut stamens take the form of catkins, while pistillate flowers of six to eight spikes receive the wind-borne pollen. The nuts are oval-shaped and generally hard to crack.
Once the primary fungus, sirococcus clavigignenti-juglandacearum, invades a wound in the tree, a secondary infection, caused by melanconis juglandis, takes place. The secondary disease alone does not kill the trees. Fungicides, because they kill healthy fungi, are impractical to use in combatting disease except in nurseries or on plantations. Butternut grows mostly in the wild.
Since 1993, Mr. Birmingham has been surveying the state's butternut trees. Of 30 specimens he took in trips to 51 of the state's 60 counties, he found the disease in 26 samples. The 4 negative samples are being retested. "Most butternut in New York State are infected," he said.
Once healthy trees are found, cuttings from them are mailed to Minnesota. At the Forest Service's North Central Forest Experiment Station in St. Paul, the wood is grafted onto black walnut trees, which give their immunity to the butternut. The grafts are returned to the New York nursery in Saratoga Springs, where seedlings are grown for distribution in New York and Vermont, another state where butternut is in decline. Vermont's wood industry depends heavily on butternut trees.
In 1992, Minnesota imposed a moratorium on the harvesting of healthy butternut trees on state land. A year later, the Forest Service put restrictions on healthy butternut in national forests. Currently, butternut is listed under the Federal Endangered Species Act as having evidence of vulnerability. The results of several states' surveys will determine if butternut is declared a threatened species.
Butternut trees have been in trouble since 1923, when melanconis juglandis was first detected. Causing dieback, the fungus could take 20 years to kill a tree. Not so with the new disease.
"I don't think this fungus was around in 1923," said Michael E. Ostry, a research plant pathologist at the St. Paul station. "The botanists were very thorough. They never saw this fungus. It has probably been here since the 1950's, based on aging cankers. We don't know where it came from."
Mr. Ostry continued: "We believe it was introduced from outside the country. The only evidence that would lead us to believe that it is not native is that it fairly rapidly kills trees and fairly rapidly extended its range. There are very few places where we don't find it. There are very few healthy trees. We found a very low level of resistance."
So far, the disease has not affected any other species of tree. "Butternut is its only known natural host," Mr. Ostry said. "It has only been reported a few times on black walnut. It could have come from Asia."
At the molecular level, there is no variation in the fungus. "We don't find the two stages of asexual and sexual," Mr. Ostry said. "We only have the asexual stage. Usually a fungus is quite mutable, but this fungus has not had time to change or recombine. So, we're probably looking at something new."
Based on the success of the public-private partnership known as the American Chestnut Foundation, which saved American chestnut trees from extinction, also by a fungus, state and Federal foresters are asking citizens to report the location of healthy butternut trees for use in the grafting program. The program was started to save the American chestnut.
Identifying strains of healthy butternut trees may take some historical digging, said Daniel F. Millikan, a plant pathologist at the University of Missouri in Columbia, where he has studied butternut trees for more than 50 years. Dr. Milliken remembers nut contests sponsored in the 1930's by the Northern Nutgrowers Association in conjunction with the United States Department of Agriculture.
"They were looking for better quality and quantity from the wild," Mr. Milliken said. "People would send 15 or 20 nuts to Northern Nutgrowers and do the same with fruits. Nuts were selected for size and meat, and they developed cultivars. There was Cracked Susan from Michigan and Buckwheat from Iowa. The U.S.D.A. would recommend propagation. We don't know yet whether any of those cultivars are reistant."
Mostly, butternut has been classified according to the ease with which its meat can be extracted. A famous butternut cultivar in New York State was Chamberlin, found in New Madrid just before World War II by Fred Ashworth. But a strain named Craxezy and discovered around the same time in Union City, Mich., gave it some competition.
Butternut is one of only a handful of native American crops that are used for food or anything at all, said Bill Reid, a horticulturist at Kansas State University in Chetopa. He writes "Kernels of Wisdom," a column in the Kansas Nutgrowers Newsletter and has books from 1886 to the present on nut culture.
"Butternut has commercial value for furniture, specialty custom furniture makers and woodcarvers," said Mr. Reid, a former president of the Northern Nutgrowers Association. "But nut production has never been commercialized. If you study history, species have always disappeared for one reason or another. A species doesn't have genetic resiliency to overcome a pathogen or it could be anything. Why don't we have a lot of things that used to be around?"
 
A Guide to Selecting Trees
Guidelines from the United States Forest Service for selecting healthy butternut trees:
*Candidate trees must be within 100 feet of sick trees. The location indicates that the tree has had a reasonable chance at exposure to the pathogen.
*Trees must be 10 inches in diameter at a height of 10 1/2 inches and must be free of cankers, or if cankers are present, the tree must have overgrown them.
*The manager or property owner must be willing to allow collection of scion wood and seed from the tree for several years.
Retention of trees follows the 70-20-50 rule. Trees with more than 70 percent live crowns and less than 20 percent of their circumference affected by cankers should be retained as well as trees with at least 50 percent of their crowns and no cankers. Dead butternut may be cut.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Herberger, a state forester, with a diseased butternut tree at Ward Pound Ridge Reservation in Cross River. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (US) FOREST SERVICE (69%); FOREST SERVICE (93%); FOREST SERVICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (US) FOREST SERVICE (93%); FOREST SERVICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARD POUND RIDGE RESERVATION (KATONAH, NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TREES AND SHRUBS; FUNGI DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ANIMALS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); 

PERSON: FULLAM, ANNE C MICHAEL E OSTRY (56%); MICHAEL BIRMINGHAM (56%); ROBERT HERBERGER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



156 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3323 words

HEADLINE: Carlos Torres, Plumber In a Sea Of Distrust

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
BASICALLY everyone thinks Carlos Torres charges too much, but then they back off when he suggests that they do what he does. His company's rate is $87.50 an hour, and he gets aggravated listening to the mocking cracks about the doctors and lawyers, looking to sweeten their already sugary life styles, who abandon their practice to be like him, a plumber.
When he hears opposition to his rate, Mr. Torres points out some of the endless and often appalling items he has to dislodge from toilets: pens, shards of glass, clumps of cat litter, toothbrushes, hairspray tops, toenail clippers, bobby pins, a figure of the Joker from the Batman movie, the cover of Vanity Fair. He yanked out a beeper once, waterlogged into silence. "You know what a lot of people do," he said. "They flush dental floss down the toilet. That's the worst thing. It sticks to the side of the pipe and as paper comes down, it attracts the paper and causes a backup." 
 He expounds about the water bugs big as birds that make his skin crawl. "I've seen, like, thousands of water bugs," he said. "Every plumber has to work around water bugs. It's always a good idea to look around as you work so the bugs don't get you from behind and go in your pants. The thing to do is put the blowtorch on them. They don't bother you then."
He talks about the rats he intrudes upon in the basement sewer lines. When Mr. Torres tries to unclog a line, a rat will sometimes get hooked on his plumber's snake and, when Mr. Torres attempts to extract the snake, curl up into a ball and put up the fight of its life. People hear this, and they say, "Yeah, yeah." You want to be a plumber, you take a lot of grief.
Few people seem to care as much about cracked pipes and clogged drains as Carlos Torres does, and he wants to do all he can to put them in proper working order. Something like 20,000 plumbers fix the labyrinthine network of pipe that transports water through the streets and buildings of New York, and they are a tribe with their own rituals and heroic tales. Mr. Torres is a union man, which means that he earns union scale of $845 a week (benefits bring his personal compensation to about $31 an hour). He handles almost exclusively residential leaks. In the trade, he is known as a jobbing plumber. Conventional stoppages and cracked pipes are known as jobs, as opposed to more involved, longer-lasting renovations and new construction, which get done by alteration plumbers.
Mr. Torres works for Mac Felder Inc., a high-energy place sandwiched into a small town house on West 86th Street. It has been in business since 1936, when it was founded by Max Felder, whose son and grandson, Lawrence and Maxwell, now run it. In the early days, supplies were heaved onto a pushcart and the plumbers shoved them around town, sometimes huffing all the way to Wall Street from the Upper West Side (traffic was lighter then). The neighborhood around the office was Irish, and people thought Max's name was "Mac." He got called Mac so often that he eventually named the company Mac Felder. About 15 plumbers are employed in the shop now, servicing Manhattan and the Bronx, and they get about in vans.
Wiping sleep from their eyes, the plumbers straggled in around 7:30 in the morning, and some of them hung out in the slender garage among the vans parked bumper to bumper, swapping plumbing stories ("You hear about that high-rise, the water two inches deep, the cat swimming through it?"); others retreated to the dingy basement, where there was a shower and endless shelves containing a hodgepodge of spare parts: shut-off valves, faucet stems, tees, pipe, O-rings.
In the office upstairs, Johnny Keaveney, the dispatcher, carefully sorted the assignments, scrawled on yellow sheets, and affixed them to clipboards. Around the office, Mr. Keaveney has acquired a certain cachet for having made it onto "Candid Camera" in the 1960's. He was summoned to unclog a drain in a basement. He inserted his plumber's snake and pulled. It wouldn't budge. He assumed it was a well-muscled rat. In actuality, on the other side of the wall were two bodybuilders who had grabbed firm hold of the snake. "I was strong back then," Mr. Keaveney recalled. "I put my foot against the wall and I pulled both the snake and the entire drain trap out. Then they told me I was on 'Candid Camera.' I said, 'Oh yeah?' "
At 7:45, Mr. Keaveney barked into the intercom, "Show time." The plumbers trooped up the stairs, retrieved their clipboards with murmured grunts and headed out to battle water.
"Hey, Carlos, how you doing," one of the plumbers greeted Mr. Torres.
"Not bad, you?"
"Not bad, but I'm trying," came the reply.
"Well, you're alive," Mr. Torres said. "That counts."
Mr. Torres is 56, with thinning black hair, a neat mustache, clifflike cheeks and a strong jaw. He speaks slowly, his voice caressing the words. He has an earthy, easy-going nature that comes in handy when he gets awakened at 2 in the morning because somebody has water gushing into his apartment ("People call a plumber because they're too lazy to bend over and turn off the shut-off valve. It's crazy.") He wears an olive-colored work shirt and matching pants. As he tools around town in his white Ram van, he puffs on a cigar, a habit that reminds him that he is not excessively sensitive to odors, a highly appreciated trait in his chosen profession.
There is a steady industriousness about Mr. Torres. He is immersed in an often misunderstood existence, a world at once distasteful and oddly satisfying, where life moves in predictable rhythms but has its raffish moments.
 
 
 
DELIVERING THE BAD NEWS
 On West 83d Street, he parked and snatched his plumber's bag, a white canvas sack laden with a mash of tools: pliers, wrenches, screwdrivers, an electric snake, a pipe cutter, channel locks, a blowtorch, solder, gloves, a chisel, a light, a putty knife, a ruler, a vise and some pieces of pipe.
He led the way into the kitchen of the superintendent's apartment. Corroded pipe here, leaking.
"Oh, I've got to take that pipe out," he said straight off. "It's rusted through."
"Do you have to go upstairs, too?" the super asked.
"Yeah," he said, "I have to take the toilet out above here and cut through the floor."
"C'mon, Carlos, don't say that," she pleaded.
"I've got to."
Upstairs, he trooped into the bathroom and gave his rapt attention to the toilet. The landlady, a woman of stern bearing who was fond of never spending a nickel more than absolutely necessary, met him there.
"Can you put some gook on and maybe it'll last another 20 years?" she inquired.
The direct thrust of the question stopped him. "No," Mr. Torres said.
"Well, don't break the tile," she said. "It's a new floor."
The floor had to be broken. The landlady looked as if she had lost her pet.
To do the job, Mr. Torres said he would have to get a new lead vent.
The landlady: "I'm going to go down with you so you can call the office in my presence and have them send over what you need. I don't want you to waste an hour going back and forth."
Mr. Torres nodded and gave a disingenuous smile. He marched downstairs and placed the call with the landlady two-tenths of an inch from his face.
She was still talking: "One guy came here and took three days to change a lead vent. He spent most of his time staring out the window. He said he was thinking about how he was going to do the job."
And still talking: "One of my tenants had all these animals -- gerbils, whatnot. He flushed the stuff from the cage down the toilet and he clogged up two of my drains. I could kill him."
Perched on a ladder, Mr. Torres adroitly sawed the old pipe off. The whoosh of somebody flushing a toilet above. Mr. Torres inserted a new pipe.
The landlady sat and watched. She said: "They could just put the gook in there and it would last 20 years. But they want to do this. You know why? It takes longer. They get more money. It's all money. Money, money."
Hours later, Mr. Torres was on his way, trying to believe the landlady had disappeared from human history. "See, a real glamorous job, huh?" he said. "People treat you so well."
 
 
 
THE FLAWS IN HUMAN NATURE
 Mr. Torres has sound reason for feeling that there will always be strong demand for plumbers. In a brownstone on West 86th Street, he responded to a report of a clogged kitchen drain. He took a look. He had left his plunger in the van. That was all right.
He put the palm of his hand over the drain, worked it up and down twice.
He removed his hand.
The drain drained.
Mr. Torres shook his head. "If people would only think before calling a plumber," he shrugged. "Nobody wants to think."
He climbed back into his van and headed for a shower dilemma. "You know," he said, "if only people were a little careful. I go to these office buildings, where workers stir their coffee with these wooden stirrers. They're drinking, stirring, dumping stuff in the sink. Boom, the stirrers go down the sink. Forget it. I've got to get the sticks out."
Idling at a light, he said: "One thing, I never find any money. I never really found anything of value in stuffed toilets. I've never pulled out any drugs. They seem to go down. I've gotten calls for rings in drains. If they don't use the water I can get it out of the trap underneath. But if they use the water, which they usually do, it's goodbye. People get really bent out of shape. Can't you go find it? Hey, I can't fit down the drain and go through the whole sewer system. I'm a plumber. I'm not God."
 
 
 
HOW A PLUMBER CAN SLIP ONE BY

There are, of course, good plumbers and bad plumbers, and malevolent plumbers can be a real nuisance. There are a lot of ways a plumber can sweeten profit and compromise quality. He could install 1/2-inch pipe instead of 3/4-inch. That retards the water flow. You can't really take a shower and flush the toilet at the same time. There are different grades of copper piping. Who's going to know if he puts in K or L grade, which is less costly but not as durable as M.
In New York, plumbers are prohibited from using plastic pipe except in one- and two-family homes and laboratories that discharge acid waste. Plastic is cheaper and quick to install but noisier, flammable and less sturdy. It is outlawed partly because plumbers are against plastic, since almost anyone can install it. Nonetheless, Mr. Torres says he encounters plastic pipe all the time, particularly beneath sinks.
Another common thing Mr. Torres sees in New York City is the soapsuds-in-the-toilet phenomenon. Prewar apartment buildings were not built with washing machines in mind. That means they don't contain a "suds pressure zone" in the wall to relieve the flow of suds down the pipes. People, however, install washers anyway. What happens is the plumbing in the second-floor apartments in these buildings, where the main waste stack makes a 90-degree turn, backs up. Suds surge up into the kitchen sink or the toilet, then overflow. There are few things more unsettling than to wander into the bathroom and see soapsuds erupting out of the toilet.
 
 
 
EMBARKING ON A CAREER

While he dealt with a drain problem on East End Avenue, weariness on his face, Mr. Torres offered some facts about his life. He was born in 1939 in Puerto Rico, where his parents worked in a factory rolling tobacco leaves. In 1950, the family, which included seven other siblings, moved to New York. His father got a job as a salad man at the Hilton Hotel.
When he finished high school, Mr. Torres needed to help support the family. He found work cutting fabric in a garment factory in Union City, N.J. The job was mind-numbing. "One day," Mr. Torres said, "some of the guys said, 'Hey, why not try plumbing, you can make a few dollars.' "
Just like that, he embarked on a career releasing stoppages and tempering pipes in revolt. He has no pretensions about the life, and keeps it all in proportion. "Yeah, it's dirty and smelly," he said. "People say, 'Oh, you're a plumber, how can you stand such a job?' Well, I'm making things work again. You're accomplishing something. You make the water flow. You know anyone who wants to get along without plumbers?"
He lives with his wife, Haydee, in Parkchester in the Bronx. They have three children in college, and it irritates him sometimes that his children remain uncommitted to any particular career. "I say, 'When are you going to know?' " he said. "Isn't it time? I say, 'In my time,' and they interrupt and say, 'Yeah, but that was your time. Now it's our time.' 'Great,' I say, 'I'm paying for your time.' They say, 'Hey Dad, you're an old man. You don't know how it is.' Sometimes you want to grab them by the neck and choke them."
 
 
 
THE TRAUMAS OF THE JOB

Plumbers have their own way of interpreting what it is they do. There is no getting around the sensory grotesqueness of the work. When there are memorable experiences in plumbing, they tend to be of an unpleasant nature.
"I'm lucky that I'm not too sensitive to smells," Mr. Torres said, bent over an uncooperative radiator in a fifth-floor apartment sorely in need of heat. "Sometimes my wife tells me, 'Smell this sweater, is it a little moldy?' I don't smell anything. She says, 'Geez, working in plumbing must have lost you your sense of smell. Your nose is kaput.' I tell her, 'Good thing it is.' "
The worst experience is clearing out a badly stuffed-up waste line, one that has maybe 15 floors' worth of waste swirling around in it, begging to escape, and sometimes succeeding.
"Oh man, that's an experience," he said. "I tell you what happens a lot. Up on the roof of buildings there's an open waste pipe that lets the odor out. Sometimes kids on the roof drop sticks down the pipe. Or balls. The second time I had one I threw up. Now I know to walk around and around to clear my head. It's part of the job. But you never get used to it."
The business of plumbing takes him to a wide variety of settings. He has gone to an apartment where there were a dozen raggedly clothed people sleeping on the floor of the living room. He has gone to a multimillionaire's apartment, where an armed guard trailed him as he moved among the 12 bathrooms. One place where Mr. Torres never derives much delight is a funeral parlor. In their basements, funeral homes typically have drains encased in the floor to swallow waste as bodies are readied for burial. Now and then, Mr. Torres has to unclog one of those drains, doing his best not to focus on what went down them.
Mortuary workers love to tease plumbers. Mr. Torres will be wrestling with the drain and a worker will call to him, "Hey, Carlos, don't turn around now, we've got a leg lying here." Then another worker will shout, "Hey, Carlos, keep your head down, an eyeball just popped out."
"They think that's really funny," Mr. Torres said. "Meanwhile, my skin is crawling. It makes it kind of hard to concentrate."

 
 
THOSE CRAZY WATER LEAKS

He had a leak on Park Avenue and 36th Street. It was straightforward but would take some time. Some days are a delirium of leaks. Finding them can be tedious. They don't always show up where they are leaking from. He has something called a moisture meter that you stick in the wall and it tells you the amount of moisture, but he rarely uses it because it still doesn't identify the source of the leak. Often, you need some luck.
"I had a leak that I was going crazy over," he said. "The ceiling was wet. I go upstairs and I don't see anything. I open up the ceiling. Nothing. A couple of days later, I get called again. It's leaking. I opened up more of the wall. Nothing. Then a guy came to replace the wet Sheetrock. He saw it. A nail in the hot-water pipe. When the hot water went through it, the pipe expanded and sealed itself. Then when the water cooled off, a little of it leaked. It was annoying. That's the thing about water. It's annoying."
He finished up, packed his bag. The owner looked in on him. "Good, good, good," she said. "Is it going to work now?"
"Yeah, it'll work." Mr. Torres said.
"It better work," she said, her voice raised. "Or I'll come after you with a sledgehammer."
Mr. Torres pursed his lips and went out the door. "See, you meet people," he said. "They talk to you. You listen. You fix leaks. That's plumbing."
 
The Basics on Carlos Torres
 
Resides: The Bronx
 
Born: 1939 in Puerto Rico
 
Wages: $845 a week.
 
General Outlook: People are often their own worst enemies and should be more careful.
 
Highlights of Tool Bag:
Electric snake, blowtorch, channel locks, pieces of pipe
 
Quote from official of his union:
"You can live a month without food, but you could not live more than three days without pure water. Plumbing is not a glamourous business, but it can't go away. Without plumbing, there is no life as we know it."
 -- Peter Marzak, business manager, Plumbers Local 2.
 
 
 
The Truth About Hiring: You're On You're Own
 YOU just got your plumbing bill. It's $200 more than the estimate, and the darn pipe is leaking again. What can you do?
Basically, not a lot.
First, call the Buildings Department Licensing Division and file a complaint, (212) 312-8221. The folks there aren't going to care about the $200 -- that you'll have to deal with in small claims court -- but they can investigate. However, thanks to shrinking budgets, the number of inspectors is only about 20 now -- for the whole city. In the most serious cases of bad work, the license could be revoked or suspended. That is rare: there were no such cases last year.
And if you have hired someone other than a licensed master plumber, or a plumber supervised by one, the only punishment your tormentor can expect is a fine.
As far as rates go, plumbers who do residential jobs tend to charge by the hour. KBM/Brand Plumbing and Heating, at 49 Grand Street, charges $90 an hour to send two mechanics, a price that one partner, Walter Brand, figures to be fairly average. A simple toilet replacement might take a little under three hours, so Mr. Brand estimate $260 (plus sales tax). He likes to see the worksite before giving an estimate, because there are so many variables. And, he says, he never gives an estimate on a stopped-up drain. "Because there's no way to tell how long it'll take to clear it up," he says.
While there are 20,000 plumbers of various kinds in the city, as of June 1995, the city had only 1,462 licensed master plumbers, who are the only people legally allowed to contract for plumbing work and supervise non-licensed plumbers, including union workers like Carlos Torres.
It is not easy to get a license. There is a three-part exam, and applicants must have seven years of experience, or a bachelor's degree in engineering or engineering technology and three years of experience.
There are plenty of people out there plumbing illegally. Last year, Buildings fined 17 people anywhere from $100 to $3000 for advertising plumbing services without licenses. The Yellow Pages now checks that a plumber is licensed before agreeing to list the company.
The wise consumer must start smart.
* Word of mouth is the best guide.
* The smaller the operation, the likelier the master plumber is doing the work himself.
* Hiring locally means faster response and less travel time (which you pay for).
* Buildings' Licensing Division can tell you if your plumber is licensed, and whether any complaints have been filed against him.
* Estimates are not binding, so don't be shocked by overruns.
One final note of consumer comfort: It's a hirer's market. Thanks in part to slow construction and new competition from Con Ed and Brooklyn Union Gas on gas-pipe service, plumbers have a 45 percent unemployment rate. On top of that, their work is seasonal. So plumbers are likely to be eager to please. ANDREA KANNAPELL

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carlos Torres repairing pipes in a heating system at 30 Park Avenue at 36th Street. Sometimes, he says, people expect miracles. "I'm a plumber," he says. "I'm not God." (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 10); Carlos Torres at work at Congregation Rodeph Sholom on West 83d Street. During a day, he encounters angry landlords and careless tenants. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: MAC FELDER INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: PLUMBING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CONSTRUCTION (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; TORRES, CARLOS CARLOS TORRES (94%); JOHNNY KEAVENEY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



157 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS QUARTERLY REPORT;
The Longer the Bond the Better as Rates Fell Last Year

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
The Benham Target Maturity funds, which invest only in volatile securities known as zero-coupon Treasuries, pulled off an amazing feat in 1995: they had gains in 11 months of the year. Only in July, when long-term interest rates rose to 7 percent from 6.5 percent, did they post a loss.
The sharp decline in long-term rates last year also benefited more staid bond funds, as well as a few emerging-markets debt funds, which capitalized on a rebound in several markets for Latin American debt. 
 In the fourth quarter, high-income funds, often called junk bond funds, had a slowdown as default rates continued to rise. But after a strong move last year by investment-grade bonds, some experts think further bond rallies could favor the lower-grade issues and funds.
Among municipal funds, California specialists performed well one year after the Orange County debacle, and the sector regained favor after being battered in the first half of the year by concerns over Republican proposals to pass a flat tax. After recording a net outflow for six consecutive quarters through the third quarter of 1995, municipal funds have taken in money in 7 of the last 10 weeks, according to AMG Data Services of Arcata, Calif.
 EDWARD WYATT

GRAPHIC: Charts: "How the Taxable Bond Funds Fared" shows total returns for taxable bond funds for the past quarter, the past year and the past 5-years. "How the Municipal Bond Funds Fared" shows total returns for municipal bond funds for the past quarter, the past year and the past 5-years. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD BENHAM TARGET MATURITY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



158 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Films Face the Squirm Factor

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT 

 BODY:
OH, how America loves the movies. But does it love them three hours' worth?
Film patrons are finding their devotion severely tested by a spate of exceedingly lengthy offerings. In just the last couple of months, for instance, audiences have had to sit still for "Casino," "Heat" and "Nixon." While these cinematic labors share short titles, they also pack long running times, hovering at three hours, twice the once-time-honored Hollywood standard of 90 minutes. 
 As the credits rolled on Martin Scorsese's "Casino," a 50-something theater patron hobbled to the exit. Disappearing down the escalator at the Ziegfeld Theater in midtown Manhattan, he could be heard repeating, "Too long . . . too long."
Long films, while sometimes wildly entertaining, are nonetheless complicating the lives of many of the very people who love them, often making for longer waits in line and inconvenient show times and generally heightening the risks that the movie might be a waste of time and money. For movie makers, that's no small concern in the wake of an off year like 1995, when box-office receipts were flat.
Some moviegoers say long movies complicate dating, leaving little time afterward for dinner. And consequences could be dire if a date thinks he or she has just been subjected to three hours of tedium, warned Robin Gorman Newman, the founder of the School of Flirting at Stand-Up New York, a comedy club on the Upper West Side.
"Maybe they should plan a little break together to get some popcorn and a soda," said Ms. Newman, 35, the author of "How to Meet a Mensch in New York" (City & Company, 1994). "That way they can get a moment to confer on whether to stay or leave the theater together." Of course, time was when an intermission came with the price of admission.
Couples with young children lament that they have particular problems with the longer movies, namely prohibitive baby-sitting costs.
Lonnie Soury, 43, the father of two children, ages 3 and 7, said he and his wife did not see a movie for a year because juggling time, money, children and baby sitters was too stressful for what should be a simple night out.
"In a conversation my wife and I had, 'Casino' came up," recalled Mr. Soury, a public-relations executive in Manhattan. "I said: 'How long is it? Three hours. Forget it! We can't do this.' "
Cathy Che, 28, who was mulling over movie options at a theater in Greenwich Village, said: "I certainly have to prepare myself differently for a long movie. I go to the bathroom first."
For staunchest movie fans, those for whom video just won't do, three-hour movies are presenting a different sort of problem: they can't get enough of them. Also concerned are theater managers who have to deal with the fact that long movies cannot be shown as many times a day as shorter ones, and therefore the seats cannot be filled as often.
For example, "Heat," which is 2 hours 41 minutes long, plays 4 times a day at the Murray Hill Cinemas, at 34th Street and Third Avenue. The computer-animated megahit "Toy Story," which is 2 hours 21 minutes long, is shown 6 times a day at the same theater complex, offering more moviegoers convenient starting times.
Roberto Liy, a manager at the 4,000-seat Sony Lincoln Square theaters at Broadway and 68th Street, said longer running times may cut down on the amount of popcorn and soft drinks moviegoers buy, again because there are fewer shows.
Stuart Applebaum, 46, an executive at Bantam Doubleday Dell in Manhattan and an ardent moviegoer, said, "I don't have a problem with movies being long, but I have a problem with the theaters' inability to schedule them the way I want." Mr. Applebaum goes to no less than 30 movies a year with friends.
For Mr. Applebaum, moviegoing is both escape and social ritual. Part of that ritual, he said, is getting enough popcorn before the film starts to last through the entire screening. He said he had learned the hard way that a three-hour movie requires at least a tub of popcorn.
He also has learned to insist on an aisle seat for his 6-foot-2-inch frame. "The longer the movie, the more the leg cramp-up issue becomes a factor," he explained.
"Two of the burning issues of the moment," he added, "are 'Are the movies too long?' and 'Will the Government go back to working as it should again?' "
So why are more movies getting longer?
Morris Dickstein, the director for the Center of the Humanities at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, explained that a film's length can be as much of a statement as the film itself. "Film makers have always used length to show that they are making a major work of art," he said.
But today's longer-running films may be better understood, he said, as a response to changes in the audience. Television and its popular mini-series -- essentially 4-to-10-hour movies shown over days or weeks -- have helped to condition viewers to richly detailed and complex stories with lots of characters, often adapted from a book, Mr. Dickstein said. And movie audiences have come to expect the same intricate storytelling, he said.
Long movies usually do not come without staggering economic risks. Mel Gibson took the risk last summer and won at the box office with "Braveheart," a 2-hour-48-minute sweep of medieval Scottish history, with him as director, star and producer. Although the film cost $70 million, it has earned $175 million in worldwide release. "It was a creative decision, really," Mr. Gibson said of the length of the film. "Those sorts of decisions can't be based solely on economics. You have to make the film you want to see and hope others will want to see."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NIXON (MOVIE); CASINO (MOVIE); HEAT (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TICKET SALES (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL MARTIN SCORSESE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



159 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 7; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: PARK SLOPE;
AIDS Ends Bookshop Dream

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
After years in publishing, Clinton Morris realized his dream when he opened A Room of Our Own, a sprawling bookstore that borrowed its name from a Virginia Woolf book and specialized in lesbian and gay writing. In August, a summer after the store opened during Gay Pride Week in 1994, Mr. Morris died of AIDS-related complications at 35.
Now AIDS, in effect, has also claimed the life of the bookstore. 
 A Room of Our Own, whose lime-colored walls were host to book readings as well as community forums, closed Christmas Eve, saddening and surprising many neighborhood residents.
The store manager, Elizabeth Shipley, said financial problems at A Room of Our Own started within months of its opening, when Mr. Morris's condition worsened. Checks weren't signed. Publishers weren't paid on time. Ads promoting the store weren't placed in community publications.
"Because of Clinton's illness, he put it together rather hastily," Ms. Shipley said. "He wanted to live out his dream before he died. A lot of corners were cut."
And while Mr. Morris initially pumped his own money into the store, his own health needs soon began to deplete his funds. "AIDS," Ms. Shipley said, "basically ate up our financial base."
Evan Morris, 37, who took over the store after his brother's death, said that in a stronger economic climate, the bookstore might have been able to survive -- its sales had doubled since it first opened in an area with a large lesbian and gay population. But the store would have needed another twofold increase in sales to become profitable in costly Park Slope, Ms. Shipley said.
Katherine Acey, a Park Slope resident who is the executive director of the Astraea National Lesbian Action Foundation, surmised that the area's mixed-income lesbian community could not support a bookstore in the same way that the more affluent gay men's community of the West Village could, although she still expressed surprise that A Room of Our Own had closed.
"Why it didn't make it in the Slope, I can't figure out," she said.
Others said the neighborhood was saturated with three bookstores -- though none specialize in lesbian and gay material -- while others compared it to small niche-market shops that recently went out of business. Judith's Room, a West Village women's bookstore, closed in 1994, and University Place Books, a bookstore that specialized in black and African works, closed last month.
Despite those factors, Ms. Shipley said she hopes to open another gay and lesbian bookstore in the neighborhood. In the meantime,
to the writer Jacqueline Woodson, the closing of A Room of Our Own is chilling.
"As a writer who is a person of color and who is gay, I get really scared that a lesbian bookstore can't survive in its own neighborhood," said Ms. Woodson, 32, who lives in Park Slope and is the author of "Autobiography of a Family Photo" and several other books for children and adults. "Will publishers then say, 'No one is buying gay and lesbian books, no one is buying African-American books, no one is buying women's books?' " said Ms. Woodson, who is black. "For me as a writer, economically, that's a dangerous thing." SOMINI SENGUPTA

GRAPHIC: Photo: Packing up A Room of Our Own after the death of its owner. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROOM OF OUR OWN (BOOKSTORE)

ORGANIZATION: ROOM OF OUR OWN (BOOKSTORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; HOMOSEXUALITY; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) AIDS & HIV (93%); BOOKSTORES (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SALES FIGURES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); CHRISTMAS (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; MORRIS, CLINTON HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



160 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS QUARTERLY REPORT;
What a Year It Was For Domestic Funds

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
ARE any mutual fund investors unhappy?
Maybe a few who made big bets last year on foreign markets or gold. But 1995 was one of the best years of the last decade for United States stock and bond funds, leaving most everyone to count their profits. And those who invested aggressively were swimming in them. 
 Stock funds that invest in American companies rose 31.5 percent on average, while their bond counterparts gained 16 percent.
Across the board in the United States, the mutual funds that took the biggest risks generated the most profits. The year's top-performing equity fund, Alger Capital Appreciation, not only put 75 percent of its assets in volatile technology stocks, but also borrowed money so it could leverage its assets even more. Alger's reward: a gain of 78.6 percent, more than eight percentage points ahead of its nearest competitor.
Similarly, the top bond funds were those that went farthest out the risk-reward curve, where returns can plummet or soar when interest rates inch up or down. Three Benham Target Maturity funds, each investing in zero-coupon bonds that mature in 2020, 2015 or 2010, rode a two-point decline in long-term rates to give their investors one-year gains of 61 percent, 53 percent and 42 percent, respectively. The next best performance by any bond fund was a mere 35 percent increase.
The blistering returns generated by both stock and bond funds last year proved true to a trend of more than a decade: in general, a good year for stocks has been matched by a good, if less robust, year for bonds. Likewise, when stock returns have slipped, bond returns have fallen.
With much of Wall Street predicting that economic growth will remain sluggish and long-term interest rates will level off this year, few prognosticators expect a repeat of last year's rich returns. If the economy slows appreciably, or slips into a recession, stocks and bonds might no longer move in tandem either.
That makes diversification at home particularly important for individual investors. And even if bonds and stocks continue to shadow each other in the coming year, a slower economy would mean much smaller returns in both categories, making diversification abroad advisable as well.
For evidence of how quickly market sentiment can change, look no further than the first few days of 1996. Pacific Rim and Latin American stocks -- among last year's worst performers -- surged. In the first week of the year, the only asset group to outperform the emerging market funds was gold, another big loser in 1995. Meanwhile, technology stocks, which paced the best-performing funds of 1995, continued a decline that began in the fourth quarter of 1995.
Now, as mutual fund companies send out year-end statements, is an especially good time for fund shareholders to reassess just how their fund investments are allocated.
"Individuals have put a lot of money into the equity market this year after going through a period in 1994 where they only wanted to buy bond funds," said Leslie J. Nanberg, chief fixed-income officer at Massachusetts Financial Services, parent of the MFS family of mutual funds. "After the kind of year we had in 1995, investors should take a look to see if they are too far out on a limb in one asset category or another."
IF the trends of the fourth quarter continue through the first half of this year, mutual fund investors will benefit by increasing their bond exposure. For all of last year, taxable fixed-income funds, which invest in bonds issued by the Federal Government and domestic and international corporations, gained an average of 16 percent. And tax-free bond funds, which invest in municipal debt, returned an average of 15.9 percent.
But while the average stock fund rose 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter, taxable bond funds returned 3.7 percent and municipal bond funds rose 4.3 percent.
"I think it's particularly important to have some fixed-income exposure this year," said C. Frazier Evans, senior economist at Colonial mutual funds. Whereas coupon payments made little difference last year in the 34 percent total return generated by long-term Treasuries, a volatile bond market this year could make those interest payments more meaningful. Mr. Evans said he expects further declines in long-term interest rates will lead to gains in bond prices of about 3 percent, on top of coupon rates of about 7 percent, for a total bond return of about 10 percent.
Municipal bonds suffered for much of 1995 because of concerns about the possibility of a flat tax, which presumably would eliminate the bonds' tax-free advantage. But Al Kugel, investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham, a Chicago fund company, said he expects municipal bonds to do better this year than last, continuing the path started in the fourth quarter.
"The flat tax will not be taken up in Washington until after the election, and it will only be taken up seriously if the Republicans elect a President and keep control of Congress," Mr. Kugel predicted. "Right now, you'd have to say that Clinton's a favorite to be re-elected, and it's not clear that the Republicans will keep control of the House. By next November we will probably see even more changes."
After such a strong year, few seers expect stock funds to have as good a year in 1996. Last year's returns were, after all, the best since 1991 and the second best in 10 years.
"I think the stock market used up a lot of its potential for gain in the 1990's in 1995," said John C. Bogle, chairman of the Vanguard Group, the country's second-largest mutual fund company. Particularly, investors who flocked to equity funds in the fourth quarter might not see their investments grow much for several quarters, he said.
"But we are saying the same thing after an extraordinary year that we say after a bad year: stay the course," he said, and avoid trying to time the market.
Mr. Bogle's longtime advocacy of index investing was supported last year. Index funds that tracked the S.& P. 500 outperformed roughly 87 percent of actively managed general equity funds, according to Lipper Analytical Services of Summit, N.J. But last year's performance far exceeds what investors can expect even from index funds over the long term. "It was astonishing, and probably nonrecurrent," he said.
The laggard in 1995 among the major groups tracked by Morningstar was the international stock category, whose funds grew 9 percent on average. For investors in the riskiest of the foreign markets, 1995 was a disaster. The average fund invested in emerging markets fell 7 percent.
"I think in fact we will see a shift to overseas markets performing better," said John W. Ballen, chief equity officer at MFS. But he said much of the upward move in overseas markets "is more a late '96 into '97 event." In Japan and Europe, he said, companies are starting to improve their profitability. "But I think it still might be too early at this point."
While most of these experts predict that both stock and bond funds will produce gains in 1996, they allow room for the unexpected, including the possibility that the economy may take a turn for the worse.
"I think what would cause the bond and stock markets to decouple is if enough people were worried about a recession or we actually got one," said Mr. Kugel, of Stein Roe. Stock and bond markets have moved in sync for most of the last 13 years, he said, as interest rates have fallen and the economy has grown.
The exception was in late 1990, he said, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait caused the price of oil to jump unexpectedly, and the economy slipped into recession. That year, the average stock fund fell nearly 6 percent, while bond funds gained nearly 5 percent.
Which provides further evidence of the ability of bonds to provide a cushion against uncertainty, said Mr. Evans of Colonial mutual funds -- a cushion that investors still basking in the glow of a year like 1995 might not realize they need.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Stock Funds" shows average gain or loss in stock funds from 1994 to 1995. "Bond Funds" shows average gain or loss in bond funds from 1994 to 1995. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 11); "1995: A Vintage Year for Funds" shows total return for funds in each category from 1985 to 1995. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); BONDS (92%); BOND FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (86%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TRENDS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD C FRAZIER EVANS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



161 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3925 words

HEADLINE: Yes, He's Revived Sears. But Can He Reinvent It?

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

DATELINE: HOFFMANN ESTATES, Ill.

 BODY:
IT'S 9 A.M. on a November Friday. The auditorium at Sears, Roebuck & Company's headquarters here in suburban Chicago is filled with balloons. More than 900 employees jam the seats and spill over onto the floor.
A spotlight breaks the semidarkness, revealing a ringmaster. "Welcome to the Sears P.S.E. Circus," he says. "It's eye-popping. Death-defying. Larger than life. Well, not death-defying." 
 Next comes Jim La the clown, in orange hat, turquoise-and-pink jacket and plaid pants. He tells a few corny jokes. Then he breaks into a rap song, ending with "we work real hard; now it's time to play. Hey, hey, what do you say?"
What has this got to do with Sears?
The next verse does work in "come see the softer side of Sears," straight from the campaign advertising the company's expanded clothing departments. The following one mentions customer service. And it helps to know that Sears sponsors the Ringling Brothers Barnum & Bailey circus's national tour as part of its appeal to families. Even so, questions linger. Shouldn't these people be working?
Arthur C. Martinez, chief executive of Sears, wanted town hall meetings, pep rallies really. The P.S.E. (for pure selling environment) circuses -- which dovetailed with the sponsorship -- were the results. He wanted, as one aide put it, "to create common ground, to make sure people understand what he's doing."
What Mr. Martinez is trying to do at Sears is foment a cultural revolution, a re-education effort that would make Mao proud.
Mr. Martinez has already made monumental changes. When retailers released their holiday sales figures last Thursday, Sears was no longer a laggard. It was the star. In the worst season since the 1990 recession, other big stores posted minimal gains or losses, but Sears registered a 9.2 percent sales increase. In domestic stores open a year or more, the gain was 6.8 percent.
And that comes on top of an impressive earlier record. As soon as Mr. Martinez became head of the Sears retail operations in 1992 -- when Sears still owned insurance and financial services businesses -- he started spending $4 billion to remodel shabby stores. He upgraded the merchandise and added private-brand apparel and cosmetics at the faded American institution, which was once known affectionately as the Big Store. He revamped marketing.
Sears, again just a retailer, was back. Revenue climbed 5.9 percent in 1995 to about $35 billion, while net profit, $890 million in 1994, probably grew to $995 million, according to a conservative estimate by Goldman, Sachs. In 1995, the company's stock price jumped nearly 71 percent, closing at $39 on Dec. 29 -- a gain second only to Merck among the 30 blue-chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average. The Standard & Poor's index of 32 retailers including Sears, meanwhile, increased just 10.3 percent.
But that was the easy part. As the just-passed holiday season showed, the retail environment is brutal. America is over-stored, and brand-name retailers like Bradlees and Caldor are among the many who have belly-flopped into bankruptcy court.
Sears will survive. But unless it woos new, loyal customers, the Big Store is unlikely to thrive. Diminishing its profitability, for example, is an annual sales-per-square-foot figure that, at $365, lags behind that of Wal-Mart as well as its own goal of topping $400 by 1998. "What was good enough to get us where we are is not good enough to get us going forward," Mr. Martinez said recently, his deep blue eyes looking earnest and ambitious.
If employees can be convinced -- by circuses or whatever -- that change is a must, they may alter their behavior willingly and accept Mr. Martinez's attempts to decentralize and restructure Sears for growth.
That's the theory. And with the help of consultants like McKinsey & Company and A. T. Kearney, he is pushing programs to change the way people think about and go about their jobs.
THE effort goes far beyond pep rallies. It includes discussion groups, training sessions, new job descriptions, new operating structures and a new pay system -- all intended to place decision making closer to the customer and make it customer friendly. And it involves employees, soliciting their ideas, letting them experiment and improving their skills as they reach for better performance. It is a blend of Barnum and business school basics.
"We've tried to take it beyond the classroom and get it into an environment where people can get energized," Mr. Martinez explained. "That's better than a 25-minute videotape of the chairman." In a service business, the best workers are happy about doing their jobs.
And so, at 9:20 A.M., Patricia A. Recktenwald, vice president for store operations, takes over from Jim La and turns the circus into a serious, though still amusing, training exercise. In gold-and-silver sequined tails, Ms. Recktenwald repeats a Martinez goal -- stripping some reporting requirements and administrative tasks from store managers and clerks so they have more time to actually sell.
"Store managers were only spending 20 percent of their time on the sales floor," she said. "Now they are spending 80 to 90 percent of their time on the floor."
"Some of our managers didn't know how to work a register," she added, a measure of how removed they were from store operations. "They had moved up because they filled in reports well."
But if the jobs of store "associates" -- company argot for managers and rank-and-file employees alike -- are changing, so too are those of the support staff at headquarters, the associates at this circus. Some of them will lose their jobs.
Many more will be reassigned, thanks to the work of four task forces, one studying the big mall stores; another looking at the free-standing, off-the-mall hardware and home-related stores; a third reviewing the automotive stores, and the last studying the headquarters support staff.
"Their job is to help structure the company for growth and increase the accountability and responsibility further down the organization," Mr. Martinez said. "We want them to define what has to happen to create opportunities for growth in new areas and sustain opportunities for growth in mall stores." The ultimate goal, of course, is bigger profits.
When he tapped these management teams in October -- using managers' input like this was a total departure for Sears -- Mr. Martinez gave them a 90-day deadline.
The day before the P.S.E. circus is rainy, and the gray furniture in a gray conference room matches the mood of the 15 or so Sears employees sitting around a big table in a room a few steps away from their offices in the advertising department.
A discussion leader, their boss, is asking them to answer basic questions, Socrates-style, about the business: Why is Sears targeting women? How well is Sears meeting shoppers' needs?
"The merchandise and the stores are improving," he said, sharing the results of a customer survey. "But what drives our overall score down is service."
Customer satisfaction numbers for Sears and its rivals, tallied by a consultant, indeed deliver bad news. The Sears score in 1994 was 69 out of 100, lower than Kmart's (70), J. C. Penney's (71) and Wal-Mart's (78). The complaints would be funny if they were not real:
* "There were plenty of cash registers but there's never anyone at them."
* "We were looking for an oven. The salesperson knew nothing. We went elsewhere."
* "Twice I called and was told an item was in stock, but when I got there it wasn't."
Finally, the leader unveils a chart that breaks down the resolution of customer complaints and shows how those customers feel. "The implication is, even if we resolve a complaint, many customers won't come back."
Conversation in the room has jumped from topic to topic, but the customer is the common thread. Guiding the talk is a "learning map," a multicolored chart the size of two Monopoly boards that sits on the table. Every one of the company's 300,000 workers journeyed around copies of this particular learning map in 1995.
THIS is their second learning map. The first, completed by everyone between April and September, covered the general retail environment. It pointed out that today's consumers are time-strapped shoppers who have many stores to choose among for whatever they buy. To compete, Sears had to provide more service, convenience and value. After discussing these points, Mr. Martinez's plans to put more emphasis on specialized stores outside malls made more sense to employees.
This month, Sears employees will again start sitting down to go over a third learning map, this one explaining where the money comes from and goes to at Sears.
"We are trying to build a level of economic literacy so they can make the right decisions," explained Barbara Lehman, director of the special communications initiative.
In the old days, Sears employees could check their economic literacy at the door. They worked in a command-and-control environment, where everything was decided for them or laid out in a 29,000-page manual of rules and procedures.
Mr. Martinez tossed out the manual. In its place, he put a folder called "Freedoms and Obligations." Measuring about an eighth of an inch thick, it contains a one-page letter from him; a one-page list of "shared beliefs" (like "we recognize our obligation to shareholders: profitable growth and superior total shareholder return"); a 16-page booklet outlining leadership principles for managers ("reward people who add value to Sears"), and a 17-page code of business conduct for every employee ("we must always describe products and services accurately").
Suddenly, participatory management was in. Store managers and associates were allowed to think for themselves, to experiment. "Our focus is to push ownership down and have people take responsibility," Ms. Lehman said.
But it is dangerous to ask that of employees unless they share a common frame of reference. So the learning map exercises, the town hall meetings, Sears University and other training exercises were born.
Mr. Martinez came to Sears from the vice chairman's post at Saks Fifth Avenue. He was brought in by Edward A. Brennan, who ran the larger, diversified Sears for nine years before finally bowing to shareholder pressure and spinning off the nonretailing businesses, one by one, the last few years. Even its trophy headquarters building, the Sears Tower in Chicago's Loop, is gone. When Mr. Brennan finished the task last summer, he retired. In August, Mr. Martinez, 56, became chief executive of the slimmed-down company.
He had never staged pep rallies at Saks. "The difference is that this is an organization that needed to start feeling good about itself and its customers," he said.
Sears had long since lost its status as an American retailing icon in the face of new competition from the likes of Wal-Mart and category killers like Circuit City and Bed, Bath and Beyond. As sales stagnated, its stores suffered from inattention. Nobody likes working at an ailing company. And customers sensed it.
Sears is not yet flying high, though it is gaining altitude. "He is now taking market share away from stores above him and from many specialty stores as well as from stores below him, the discount stores," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Marketing Report.
Sometime in 1994, Sears had gained enough sales momentum for Mr. Martinez to focus on corporate culture. "Sears' fundamental problem was arrogance from past success," Mr. Martinez said. "That blinded it to what was going on in the competitive arena and with customers."
His prescription: "We have to change how we think about ourselves and what we want to be known for," Mr. Martinez said. "That's how we came to the three C's."
"The three C's" is internal shorthand for the overarching theme at Sears. The actual slogan, introduced in 1994, is: "A compelling place to shop/work/invest."
Mr. Martinez believes that, until recently, when Mr. Brennan reversed course, Sears tried to march to Wall Street's beat, diversifying for growth and basing incentive pay on return on equity. But failing to please shoppers and workers alike ended in failure with investors, too.
Make no mistake, said Anthony J. Rucci, executive vice president for human resources and administration, "a compelling place to work does not mean a nice place to work. We want people to feel some degree of anxiety, the stress of achievement-oriented people."
Like other companies in the throes of cultural change, Mr. Martinez has made it clear that the new Sears is not for everybody. "Arthur said last March to senior management, leave or change," Mr. Rucci said. Of the top 100 managers, those heavily involved in designing the Sears of the future, about 40 are new employees.
Everyone will have to stretch to meet the company's new goals. Despite pronounced improvement made since 1992, Mr. Martinez wants financial results that will put Sears among the nation's top performers in the stock market. To him, that means a return on equity consistently above 25 percent. "We're on the verge of meeting that imminently," he said on Friday. The trick will be to keep it there.
To get there, he figures that operating margins in the Sears mall stores should be 5 percent by 1998, compared with 2.3 percent now. Inventory turnover, now 3.67 times a year, needs to be about 4.5. Overhead expenses, now 20.7 percent of revenues, should drop to 19 percent.
As managers and workers strive toward the targets, Mr. Martinez believes he has one big thing working in his favor. "These came out of the organization; they were not delivered as the goal," he said -- as they would have been in the past.
None of this is rocket science. In fact, much of what Mr. Martinez is trying to do at Sears is common sense. When one top manager sought board room approval for an initiative, a director shot back that the plan was "a blinding flash of the obvious." Indeed.
But that does not mean that this, or any, cultural transformation is easy. Success stories do not abound, and the skeptics are plentiful.
"I see no evidence that the efforts are working," said Philip Johnson, president of Leo J. Shapiro & Associates, a Chicago retailing consultant. Then again, he added, "I have not seen Mr. Martinez make a lot of mistakes either, especially in the financial area. There have been disappointments in his fashion upgrade, but his overall judgment has been good."
Even so, many management experts believe it takes 10 years to change a culture.
Mr. Martinez cannot afford to take 10 years; Sears would never be more than an also-ran if he did. "The retailing environment is always challenging, but the pace of change has stepped up," he said. "Ultimately, fewer, stronger competitors will emerge."
As Sears managers design their future, though, many are fumbling their new-found responsibilities. Consider the task forces. "For the first 30 days, they didn't know how to do it," said Mr. Rucci, who joined Sears from Baxter International two years ago. Then they started to suggest simple things, like cutting management layers, to bolster their competitive position.
Things started to change after each task force did a profit-and-loss statement for their business unit that took into account the cost of capital and allocated corporate overhead. "They were shocked," Mr. Rucci said. "Their intensity level went up significantly. They started to come up with unconventional ideas."
The fruits of their labor were complete during the first few days of January. One new division, Home Services, was created, based on the fact that Sears appliance installers and maintenance people already visit the homes of 17 million customers a year. Why not turn that into a growth business?
A new office of the president will run the mall stores, headed -- actually -- by three presidents with responsibility for the stores themselves; the apparel and home furnishing departments, and the appliances, tools, electronics and other "hard-line" departments.
The move is a half-solution. It consolidates management, but is really a face-saving device for three people who already had the presidential title. Ultimately, Sears executives predict, one will rise to the top.
The company's auto units, free-standing furniture and hardware stores and credit organization keep their current structures.
Most important, the restructuring cements the company's top 100 managers in their jobs. Duly designated, they have until mid-February to submit structures and personnel for their units. Mr. Martinez has told them to weed out poor performers and consider bringing in new blood.
And now the job shifts will begin. A couple hundred staffers will be laid off. Between 150 and 200 people in areas like human resources, finance and marketing will be reassigned to the operating units. About 400 to 500 will remain as headquarters staff.
Another 2,100 to 2,200, in areas like information systems, will provide "shared services" to the operating units, which will be their clients -- treated like customers. The people who used to call the tune are now relegated to support roles.
So the method in Ms. Recktenwald's circus madness now becomes clear. She had explained how headquarters' staff should "better support store associates." They could, for example, answer the phones quickly, since stores calling in usually had customers waiting with them for an answer. And they could pitch in and help if a store is particularly busy when they shop.
Eventually, even more people could be affected, because Sears managers may contract out for some services now done in-house.
STORE employees have hardly escaped change. Half the store managers are new in their jobs. Good thing. They are no longer expected to spend their time in their offices reading directions from above. Instead, they should be on the sales floor, checking inventory, solving problems, adjusting prices.
As for the clerks, according to Ms. Recktenwald, they are supposed to remember "just one thing": Never disappoint a customer. "There are no manuals for this," she said. "It's the associate's job to figure out how to satisfy the customer."
And despite some glitches, many are. Mr. Martinez "has made the employees understand that they have to make the customer feel happy and not look down on the customer," Mr. Barnard said. Better yet for Sears, Walter Loeb, a retail consultant, believes a combination of better merchandise and more responsive service is attracting younger, more diverse customers.
By design, some stores are changing faster than others. Sears buys centrally, sometimes producing crazy results. In winters past, management has sent topcoats to Miami and snowblowers to Puerto Rico.
A test program could change all that. Under a "local focus initiative" involving 76 stores around Hartford, Los Angeles, Cincinnati, Miami and Louisville, area managers are making their own decisions, tailoring merchandise to local needs and designing local ad supplements. The store in Lantana, Fla., for example, wanted Hanukkah tschotkes as well as Christmas decorations this year.
In the first stage, the last four months of 1995, these stores increased sales modestly more than comparable Sears outlets. But 1996 will really be the test year. Then, these managers will come up with some "best practices" to share within the whole organization.
Mr. Martinez figures that decentralizing the company will distinguish it from rivals.
By decentralizing, however, Sears is rowing against the retailing tide. To cut costs, more big retailers centralize buying, or are moving in that direction, than do not. It is as yet unclear if Mr. Martinez is right on this tactic. "I can't tell if it's good for Sears," said Mr. Johnson, the retailing consultant. "But based on his judgment so far, I can't argue against it."
And as its holiday sales tally showed, Sears is making progress over all with customers.
Another measure, customer satisfaction, climbed a bit in 1995 -- although it must rise more to reach Mr. Martinez's goal for the end of 1997. "We want to get to high 70's, though that's still behind Wal-Mart and Nordstrom," Mr. Martinez said.
SHORTLY after the headquarters circus ended, there was a meeting of another team of managers -- charged with overseeing the cultural transformation. They perused a survey revealing that employees like the town hall meetings, a result that elicited a bit of gallows humor. "We've terminated all of those who didn't like it," someone said, sotto voce.
Still, munching sandwiches and chips, these managers worried that too many employees viewed the pep rallies strictly as events, not as training that was a prelude to "taking responsibility for their own learning." They do not believe that town hall meetings should be necessary in 1996; by this year, employees should be adapting to the new Sears without them.
But, inevitably, there is skepticism among employees. Mr. Martinez wants shopping at Sears to be fun, for example, but in the learning map session several employees had trouble grasping the concept. "What's fun about buying an appliance?" one asked.
It's a good question, one of many. "There's skepticism, because we've had efforts like this in the past," acknowledged Ms. Lehman, the manager in charge of communicating change. "The program of the month. They didn't see it integrated into their daily work. The only answer to that is getting managers to support it."
Mr. Martinez himself agreed that the company's past was not helping. "For a long time, we gave lip service to the customer." he said. "But at the end of the day, it was, 'Did you make your numbers?' "
That is why several accountability and incentive systems are changing. Copying leading companies, like General Electric, managers will now get 360-degree performance evaluations, or judgments from underlings and peers as well as supervisors. The pay system is being changed, too. In 1996, every employee's compensation will include a measurement for customer service.
Beginning this year, bonuses for the top 200 executives and managers will no longer be geared solely to financial measures. Revenue growth, return on assets and operating margins will be the basis of just half the bonus. The rest will depend equally on the customer satisfaction rating and subjective employee ratings. The idea is to measure Sears as a good place for shoppers and workers as well as investors.
MR. MARTINEZ and his management team know they are pushing hard. "We're asking people to produce, to hit performance targets and to take part in the transformation process," Mr. Rucci said. "That's like saying, 'Fly an airplane and change the wings on the plane while you're at it.' "
But business is tough, and they are far from finished. This year, top managers will learn more about what management experts call value creation, which is a fancy way of saying that Sears must figure out how to provide value to customers, thus attracting more shoppers and getting more of the money they spend. Too, the operating units are expected to develop detailed strategies this year. Lower down the organization, managers will learn things like how to hire better salesclerks.
Mr. Martinez is not wearing rose-colored glasses about his task. He believes that he is less than halfway through his planned transformation of Sears. And when asked what headline he would put on this article, he had a knowing answer: "They Said It Couldn't Be Done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Participatory management is now in at Sears. To give employees a common frame of reference, the company is using tools like learning maps, town hall meetings and special training courses. (pg. 8)
 
Chart: "Where Sears Was, Is and Wants to Be" shows comparisons of the company's efficiency in the full first quarter after Arthur C. Martinez was hired. Chart showing retail and credit services statistics for Sears. (pg. 8)
 
Graph showing percent change in S.& P. composite index of retail stores and percent change in Sears stock prices from 1992 to 1995. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%); RINGLING BROTHERS BARNUM & BAILEY COMBINED SHOWS INC (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; HOLIDAY TRADE STOCK INDEXES (90%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); PRIVATE LABELS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); COSMETICS (60%); RAP MUSIC (55%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H; MARTINEZ, ARTHUR C ARTHUR C MARTINEZ (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



162 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Healthy Environment Aids the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The next time someone tells me we can't afford to protect the environment, I'm going to open my wallet and unfold your front-page article ("Federal Shutdown Hits Hard in Area Around Yellowstone," Dec. 30) on how the national park shutdown has hurt business.
Too many of us are still locked in that mindset that says the way to make money off a piece of land is to mine it, drill it or log it. That's certainly the prevailing view in Congress, though that may have more to do with who bankrolls campaigns. 
 In fact, nowadays trees in many parts of America are worth more when they're vertical than when they're horizontal and on their way to the mill. In the 20 counties near Yellowstone National Park, for example, 96 percent of new jobs over a recent 20-year period were created by businesses not part of the extractive industries or agriculture. In Oregon, forest-product executives had predicted that a reduction in national forest logging would devastate the state's economy. Yet companies lured in part by Oregon's natural qualities have helped drop unemployment to its lowest rate in a generation. In short, nature sells.
As Congressional efforts to give away the public's lands and reduce protection of water, air and wildlife turned into a donnybrook late last year, Speaker New Gingrich said that in January he would come up with a new approach on the environment. Let's hope this new approach reflects the reality that a healthy economy and a healthy environment go hand in hand.
 
JON ROUSH
President, the Wilderness Society
Washington, Jan. 4, 1996

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: WILDERNESS SOCIETY

ORGANIZATION: WILDERNESS SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); WILDERNESS (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); 

PERSON: ROUSH, JON

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



163 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Investors Help Push The Downsizing Trend

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In the wake of AT&T's record layoffs, Labor Secretary Robert Reich got it half right in calling for incentives to encourage corporate compassion for employees and communities ("How to Avoid These Layoffs?" Op-Ed, Jan. 4). And Bob Herbert's Dec. 29 column correctly identified the growing economic peril in the surge of pink slips driven by cost-cutting corporate machismo.
But the pressure on corporate chieftains to outdo each other in ruthlessly pruning employees, wages and benefits -- even, or especially, when enjoying record profits -- is driven only partly by worldwide competition. Equally significant is the mania by investors that each successive fiscal quarter be financially better than the one before. 
 Increasingly, these investors are all of us; millions of Americans who have quadrupled the resources of mutual funds and giant employee pension funds. In fact, employee pension funds have taken the lead in demanding better bottom-line performance by managers of corporations in which they invest. And we as investors and future retirees certainly reap the dividends from better financial performance. But are we also reaping a whirlwind of castoff employees, declining consumer confidence and hollow communities as corporations spin off, re-engineer, downsize, merge and disappear?
Along with Secretary Reich's prescription for greater responsibility through incorporation and tax laws, we as individual investors ought to demand that our money managers reward good corporate citizenship as well as good financial performance.
 
ERIK PETER AXELSON
Brooklyn, Jan. 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); BONDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); TAX LAW (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT REICH (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



164 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Exiles in the Promised Land

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Gilbert; Elizabeth Gilbert is a staff writer for Spin magazine.

 BODY:
I grew up in the 1970's. Here's a quick recap: oil was expensive, American citizens were hostages, Detroit was a ghost town. My first political memory was something about President Gerald Ford forgiving somebody called Richard Nixon. I was late for gymnastics class because my mother had to wait in a gas line.
I was raised in a society that believed I had just missed out on something pretty good. No fault of mine, but the 1950's had really been much better. When I refer to the 1950's, I mean the catchall term that came to define the period from the end of World War II to the escalation of the war in Vietnam. When my parents were young, America was unchallenged, cars looked great, a wife could raise her children safely, a husband could buy a home on a laborer's wage. 
 All of that was diminishing as I was growing up. It's sad luck to be born at the end of your society's greatest glories. I grew up knowing that I would never have what my parents had -- idealism, security, faith, prosperity. I was cheated. I missed it.
But my grandparents missed it, too. My maternal grandparents were married in 1933, in rural Minnesota. They were farmers, the children of immigrants. They went on a weekend-long honeymoon to Minneapolis, and when they got back home a drought hit from which they never recovered. There wasn't enough money, and it was terrifying when anyone got sick. My grandmother had seven children. My grandfather took a job on a construction crew, leaving the dairy farm in the hands of his wife and my adolescent mother. My husband's family were coal miners in western Maryland. That's all you need to know about them, in order to understand what stake they had in America's famous affluence.
These are not exceptional stories. This is how people lived for a long time before the abundant 1950's, which was a privileged moment and a brief one. The tremendous prosperity of this nation was a freak of history. It depended upon an alignment of favorable stars that cannot be repeated. We were the sole victors of a war that destroyed the economies of every other industrial nation. We were exploiting all natural resources as if those resources were endless. Racial and sexual confines insured that we all knew our place, a peculier comfort that we no longer accept.
It's fine to believe that the 1950's were an easier time for many. I have no reason to doubt that. But why should we inherit the expectations of that period? My grandparents and my husband's grandparents had no contract with America except the contract of all immigrants -- the right to hope that things will be better for your children. At 83, my grandmother still closes every letter by writing, "I can't complain." She means it.
On the other hand, I have a young Republican acquaintance who makes almost $100,000 a year on Wall Street and feels victimized because his life does not have the pleasant order that his father's life had during the Eisenhower Administration. He is convinced that something has been stripped from him.
This distorted nostalgia is creating a country of citizens who feel like refugees in their own land. Our regretful fury makes us capable of anything: reflexive xenophobia and cynicism, even the desire to dismantle a perfectly good system of government.
Such nostalgia ultimately makes us vulnerable to any politician who promises a return to the golden age, and that golden age looks better and better every year. Trust me, nobody remembers it more fondly than the people who missed it entirely. Believing we have been exiled from our entitlements, we will crucify any leader who doesn't bring us back home. Such a society can only embrace a demagogue. Be careful what you wish for this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (71%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (71%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; NINETEEN HUNDRED FIFTIES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MINE WORKERS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); COAL MINING (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); DAIRY FARMING (65%); GYMNASTICS (57%); 

PERSON: GILBERT, ELIZABETH RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



165 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Die So Companies May Live

BYLINE: By James Champy; James Champy, the author of "Re-engineering Management" and co-author, with Michael Hammer, of "Re-engineering the Corporation," is chairman of CSC Index, a consulting firm.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
It may be cold comfort to the managers of AT&T who will be laid off this year, but I'd rather be in their shoes than in those of similar managers in France. True, the French Government backed down last month from changes that would have made the vast state-owned companies more efficient at the cost of layoffs. But this simply assures the further decline of these companies and an inevitable increase in the already high French unemployment rate.
At least in the United States, laid-off middle managers have a better chance of finding a new job. This prospect in no way reduces the pain of those AT&T employees who must now seek new careers -- 40,000 in all, including those who accepted voluntary buyouts and employees in subsidiaries. But it does mean that they will be moving more quickly to new jobs and opportunities rather than denying an inescapable economic fact. 
 As the experience of France will eventually show, regulation cannot prevent industrial change, just as AT&T's paternalistic culture could not stave off the loss of middle-management jobs that were once considered the among the economy's safest.
In large organizations, middle managers serve the purpose of relaying information up and down -- orders down, numbers up. But with the new information technologies and more efficient forms of work, their purpose dwindles. Industries have incentive to shed "information relayers" and make those who remain do more "value-added work" -- that is, something customers will actually pay for. Does this sound heartless? Yes. Is it avoidable? Probably not.
Insurance and media companies and banks have already come to the same conclusions about management layers as AT&T has. Consolidations will continue to eliminate jobs in these industries. The next wave of consolidations is likely to come in the utility industry. It is estimated that of the 200 electric utilities, there will be fewer than 20 in 10 years, after deregulation.
It is argued that all these job losses will hurt the entire economy. But when markets demand that companies restructure, action cannot be delayed. And it is customers, after all, not the companies themselves, who are defining markets and industries.
To prevent or discourage companies from undertaking layoffs would be to ask them to be noncompetitive and potentially go out of business. It could mean not just fewer jobs but no jobs. Meanwhile, the popular argument that good management can avert layoffs fails to acknowledge that even growing companies no longer require huge work forces.
Robert Allen, the chairman of AT&T, did not act to cut costs or to wow Wall Street. Nor was his action a simple downsizing that would increase the burden on the remaining people. It reflects changes that position the company for growth in current and new markets. When downsizings are humanely carried out, with the intent of assuring a company's competitiveness, new jobs and a better future are eventually possible.
Companies may try to avoid layoffs as long as possible. But this merely delays the inevitable. In the late 1980's, John Akers of I.B.M. tried that strategy. But the company struggled and ended up announcing numerous small layoffs. The percentages of job cuts may end up being about the same for both I.B.M. and AT&T. But the slower course of change at I.B.M. may have cost it and its people more in the long term.
I.B.M. eventually pulled through. Today, most I.B.M. employees who left are at other businesses or are self-employed. For them, life is not so secure as it was in America a decade ago -- or as it supposedly is now in France -- but they are making their way. And one other thing is worth noting: I.B.M. has begun rehiring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AT&T CORP (92%); A BETTER CHANCE (57%); A BETTER CHANCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP A BETTER CHANCE (57%); A BETTER CHANCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (62%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: CHAMPY, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



166 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
The Doctor's Best Friend: 50 and Still Growing

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:

WHAT The Physicians' Desk Reference, a compendium of nearly all the drugs prescribed in modern medicine. It details drugs' chemical structure, dosage and conditions for which they are prescribed, and possible adverse reactions. Doctors call it P.D.R.
 
AGE 50 years old with the 1996 edition, now available.
 
PRICE $69.95.
PUBLISHED By Medical Economics Company, located in Montvale for five years, previously in Oradell.
 
EMPLOYEES In New Jersey, 510. Worldwide, 1,800, with other offices in Ann Arbor, Mich., Denver, Atlanta, Mexico City, Toronto and Milan, Italy.
 
COPIES PRINTED 1.1 million, half of which go to doctors and hospital pharmacists.
 
HOW IT STACKS UP If all the copies of the 1996 edition were piled on top of one another, they would be 50 miles high. That's nine times the height of Mount Everest.
 
PRINTING TIME 24 hours a day for 90 days beginning in September. In that time, General Motors makes 50,000 Cadillacs.
 
GROWTH From 380 pages listing 1,500 prescription drugs to 2,787 pages listing 3,300 drugs approved by the Federal Food and Drug Administration.
 
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES INCLUDED 132 in the beginning, 250 now. The companies pay to have their drugs listed.
 
WHAT'S BEEN ADDED Polio vaccines, blood-clotting drugs for hemophiliacs, and birth-control pills. New drugs added average 25 a year.
 
WHAT'S BEEN ELIMINATED Arsenic and strychnine prescribed for nervousness, melancholia, low sex drive and anemia during pregnancy. Dried hog kidney tablets prescribed for people allergic to cold, heat and light.
 
OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED A list of drugs discontinued in the last year, an F.D.A. telephone directory and an F.D.A. rating on uses during pregnancy.
OTHER PUBLICATIONS P.D.R. for Ophthalmology, P.D.R. for Nonprescription Drugs and P.D.R. Generics, including prices and generic alternatives.
 
NEWEST ADDITIONS Pocket P.D.R., a hand-held, electronic version ($199.95), and P.D.R. on CD-ROM for Windows or Windows 95 ($595). KAREN DeMASTERS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); ITALY (56%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MOUNT EVEREST (55%); HIMALAYAS (55%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (55%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (55%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAL ECONOMICS CO INC (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); ITALY (56%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MOUNT EVEREST (55%); HIMALAYAS (55%); MILAN, ITALY (55%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (55%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (73%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); US FDA APPROVALS (68%); ANEMIA (66%); HEMOPHILIA (66%); CONTRACEPTION (65%); MOUNTAINS (54%); VACCINES (53%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



167 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1957 words

HEADLINE: Cease-Fire;
The Mellowing of The American Voter

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IF the movie "Network" were being remade in 1996, the writers would be well advised to modulate the scene where Howard Beale, the messianic anchorman, implores discontented citizens to shout from their windows. In the updated version, Mr. Beale's call-to-arms might be: "I'm mad as heck and I'm not going to take it anymore!"
As the curtain lifts on an uncommonly consequential Presidential campaign season, voters, like an unappreciative audience, are still hissing. They are still cross. They are still cranky. But the raw, tomato-hurling fury that has characterized and transformed modern American politics, and brought a self-described revolutionary named Newt Gingrich to the center of the national political stage, has subsided a bit. 
 To judge from interviews with more than 1,000 voters around the country over the last year, there has been a certain mellowing, due in part to a sense among Republicans as well as Democrats that politicians have heard and heeded their angry call. The Gingrich revolution has undermined the foundation of the New Deal and the Great Society. Now, an older-style federalism is back in fashion, and the national debate about Government's role has been recast.
A rough consensus that the budget should be balanced in seven years has been achieved; benefit programs like Medicare that were sacred cows only yesterday are under scrutiny as never before; unpopular departments and programs are being dismantled, and the power of the Federal Government is being trimmed. On Friday, the Republican Congress agreed to a partial end to the shutdown that has disrupted the Government for weeks, and both sides will renew crucial talks on a detailed spending plan.
That is not to say that voters are suddenly satisfied with their lives or their leaders, or that the deep economic insecurities and momentous world problems underlying the disaffection of 1992 and 1994 have even abated. They have not. Nor is there any certainty that the calmer political mood will survive the noise of the coming campaign.
But it is as if the voters' bile and the bitter politics of repudiation have been spent. Voters had their chance to undermine their leaders, and they seized upon it with zest, sending George Bush back to Texas and humiliating President Clinton in the 1994 elections. Calls for change are still in the air, but revolution no longer seems quite so appealing. Now some of the nervous energy is directed at Mr. Gingrich and his band of conservatives: "Not so fast!" many voters are saying. "You're going too far!"
Voters appreciate how politicians finally seem to be giving more than lip service to their rage at Washington and its spending habits. They seem pleased that politicians are ready to curb welfare benefits. They like the talk of eliminating Federal agencies. They like the emphasis on values. Yet, with the consequences of that agenda largely unrealized, many voters fear that this legislative zeal might lead to a world where welfare mothers and their children sit helpless and hungry on the streets. While they agree that government is no panacea, voters still recoil at the declaration by Michael Huffington, a Republican who lost the race for Senate from California in 1994, that "I want a Government that does nothing."
Consider the sentiments of Kristine Anderson, 39, an architect in Tacoma, Wash., who voted for Mr. Clinton and grouses that the Republican takeover has made politics more unsettled than ever. "Change doesn't come very fast," Ms. Anderson said, "unless you're a Republican -- and it happens too fast."
Indeed, in the random interviews -- from Moreno Valley, Calif., to Puyallup, Wash., to Chicago to Murfreesboro, Tenn., to Easton, Pa., to Topeka, Kan., to Orlando, Fla., to Lincoln Park, Mich., to Ames, Iowa, to Denver to Keene, N.H., to Yorba Linda, Calif. -- voters of all persuasions still sometimes resort to swear words when discussing politics. But the roughest edges have been smoothed, the angriest voices muted. In 1994, some voters even said they were thinking of leaving the country; no such threats are in the air now.
The central question for 1996 is whether this mellowed electorate will be able to resolve the conflict that it created by electing Mr. Clinton in 1992 and then sending Mr. Gingrich to the Speaker's chair in 1994.
Combined with the unsettled state of the voters, that conflict gives this campaign season an unusual air not only of importance but also of unpredictability. "This is the most abnormal election I've seen in the 30 years I've been in this," said former Representative Tony Coelho of California, who advised the Democratic Party during the 1994 elections. "My gut says it's not going to be normal."
Perhaps voters will consolidate the changes they began in 1994 by installing a Republican in the White House and solidifying Republican control of Congress. But as much as voters profess to deplore the gridlock in Washington, many seem to regard the alternatives with even greater distaste.
As he was teeing off for a golf game, Jeff Sweatt, 28, a shipping supervisor in Nashville who voted for Republicans in 1994, blanched at the notion of one-party control. "Checks and balances help keep them both kind of honest," he said. "Gingrich has gone too far to the right, like Rush Limbaugh. I liked Rush Limbaugh at one time, but he's just gotten too far out."
The evidence of a tamer electorate can be seen in recent polls, showing that people credit politicians with some accomplishments. And the scattered off-year elections last fall demonstrated that voters were not eager for more revolution; in Virginia, they rejected Gov. George Allen's crusade to win Republican control of the General Assembly for the first time since Reconstruction.
And if talk radio is a gauge of voters' vitriol, consider that Mr. Limbaugh's ratings, while still titanic, have dipped.
That is not to say that Republicans have fallen from their perch; indeed, they have changed the terms of the debate. Mr. Gingrich may be the most unpopular political leader in America right now, but the battle is being fought more or less on his terms.
And the fervor for third party or independent candidates has dissipated. Last week, the Reform Party established by Ross Perot failed to gather enough signatures to qualify as a political organization in Maine, where Mr. Perot had his best showing in the 1992 Presidential race. Also last week, Senator Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat who had flirted with an independent bid, made clear that he will not run.
 
Mission Accomplished
 It could be that people think their rage has paid off. Rawls Ray, 50, a computer operator in Murfreesboro who backed Mr. Perot in 1992, said, "Everyone's anger made it easy for them to accomplish what they wanted to: the Government has to be more conservative about spending money."
A more cynical explanation for the electorate's relative calm is resignation. It could be that after years of throwing the bums out, some voters have concluded that they will never get what they want. "The economic problems that affected voters two and four years ago are still around," said Robert Joffee, an independent pollster in Miami. "The sentiment is, 'We tried this, we tried that, but that doesn't mean everything's better. I'm not going to expect any magic solutions.' "
One who has lowered his expectations is Robert Farrar, 35, a firefighter and contractor in South Laguna, Calif., who lamented: "The best people in the country aren't in politics because they're too smart."
But while voters seem to expect less of government, they still worry that they will not be able to pay for medical bills, housing, their children's educations and their own retirements. Because of these continuing economic concerns, the Federal budget machinations threaten to revive the full-blown rancor against politics-as-usual.
After visiting his district in the Florida panhandle, Representative Joe Scarborough, a freshman Republican, allowed that he was subjected to his share of recriminations over the budget: "People aren't bashing the President. People aren't bashing Congress. They're bashing everybody."
The dilemma for politicians is that voters appear to want it all: They want the budget balanced but they do not want cuts that would unduly hurt poor people. They want universal health care, but not if it could limit their choice of doctors. They want Mr. Clinton to keep the country out of Bosnia, but they want him to prove his foreign policy bona fides. They attack a politician for pandering, yet they want to know why that politician has not helped their pet cause.
Take Dallas W. Jolley, 40, a lawyer and a Republican in Puyallup, Wash., who spoke in one breath with enthusiasm and wariness about the House Republicans' Contract With America. "I'd like to hear about real cuts," said Mr. Jolley. "But I don't want them to go too far. I don't want them to hurt people."
Then he added: "My parents are in their 70's and I appreciate them getting some help on their medical expenses."
Victor Myers, 75, a retired insurance agent from Orange, Calif., described himself as a staunch Republican. "We've got to get the budget balanced," he said. "But, of course, we don't want Medicare tampered with much."
Mike Pagan, 51, a retired police officer in Moreno Valley, Calif., called the welfare system "stupid," saying, "I don't believe we should have girls with babies running around picking up money for free."
"We should dump it," Mr. Pagan said of the current system. "But that doesn't mean we should hurt people."
Mr. Gingrich embodies the sentiment that politicians are going too far. In the interviews, hundreds of voters -- Republicans and Democrats alike -- responded with tortured body language at the mention of his name: some smirked, others waved him off, saying they did not want to talk about him. Many just rolled their eyes.
"Newt scares me, he's a little bit frightening to me," said Doug Rhodes, 52, a cotton and soybean farmer near Murfreesboro who usually votes Republican. "It's all right to go a little bit conservative. But it seems like he likes power awfully well."
That may explain why after spending nearly $20 million last year, Senator Phil Gramm's campaign for the Republican nomination is stalled in single digits. More than anyone in the field, the Texan represents the spirit of the Gingrich Congress. Republican voters so far are more comfortable with the split-the-difference conservatism of Senator Bob Dole.
When asked about their dream choices for President, voters of both parties brought up one name again and again: Harry S. Truman. But he probably couldn't live up to their ideals, either. The man from Independence is a lot more popular now than he was a half century ago.
And politicians should not be fooled into thinking that the electorate suddenly regrets its contradictory impulses, or accepts the compromises needed to reconcile them. The language may have grown a tad more reasonable, but the demands can be something else again.
Listen to Roger Gross, 48, a phone company installer in Tacoma, whose advice to the President about slashing spending sounds fair enough -- for a moment: "Just go in there and pick one of the Cabinet members and say, 'Your operating budget is going to be 30 percent less and I want you to reduce 70 percent of that out of manpower.' They'll figure out how to work more efficiently."
Then there was Helen Whitworth, 47, a kindergarten teacher in Murfreesboro who accused Republicans of trying to destroy Medicare and ruin education programs. "That's not the only way to cut the deficit," she said.
What, then, is another way? Mrs. Whitworth just shrugged.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); MEDICARE (71%); BUDGETS (71%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



168 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Europeans Redefine What Makes a Citizen

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
CHILDREN born on French soil to foreign parents used to acquire French citizenship automatically, but since 1993 they have had to apply for it before their 18th birthdays. Like the rest of Western Europe, France has tightened citizenship rules to discourage immigration. Nearly three million people in France, immigrant and native alike, are unemployed, and extreme-right political movements have persuaded 15 to 20 percent of the electorate that unemployment would vanish if the immigrants went home.
In Germany, it can be easier for a child whose family lived in Russia for 200 years to become a German citizen than it is for an American or for the German-born child of a Turkish "guest worker," even if that child speaks no Turkish and has been educated in German schools. Germany defines citizenship by bloodline. So Russian descendants of the ethnic Germans whom Catherine the Great brought over to farm the Volga River Valley can come back to Germany as citizens under the country's law of return. But most others wanting to acquire German citizenship might find it easier to pass through the eye of a needle. 
 Britain, which admitted millions of people from its former African and Asian colonies until the 1970's, long ago raised the barriers. A proposal in the late 1980's to try to settle nerves in Hong Kong, which reverts to China next year, by giving full British passports to thousands of the colony's most dynamic business leaders and investors met with howls of protest from British politicians afraid of a backlash from their constituents. A recent attempt by Chris Patten, the colony's Governor-General, to revive the proposal fell on deaf ears.
While the creation of European Union points to a continent drawing closer together, with many countries issuing European rather than national passports, the efforts to limit immigration seem to be resulting in more rigid definitions of citizenship rather than more relaxed ones.
 
Still Guarding the Borders
 The anti-immigrant mood is widespread in Europe these days, and it's one of the reasons why the 15-nation Union has not yet made good on a promise made five years ago to do away with internal border controls and create a true common market that could eventually stimulate the economic growth needed to bring down chronic high unemployment.
Nine of the 15 nations eventually agreed to try to do away with inspection of passports and identity cards at crossing points along their borders by Jan. 1, 1993, but that was postponed by more than a year. Belgium, Germany and Spain don't guard their frontiers with France anymore but France, despite its claim to be at the core of the new Europe, unilaterally delayed the elimination of border controls by six more months at the turn of the year.
The French are worried about drug smuggling as well as illegal immigrants, and basically they aren't yet confident that their neighbors will do the job of barring the door for them as well as they can do it themselves.
For centuries, most of Europe has defined nationhood by ethnicity, even if citizenship follows different rules. Liberty, equality and fraternity means French citizenship today for 1.8 million people whose ancestors weren't Gauls, most of them from its former North African colonies.
But in Germany, a country where 6.9 million foreigners live, barely a trickle ever become citizens. Of the nearly 2 million Turks living there, only 19,000 acquired German citizenship in 1994. Many who might qualify (by having lived in Germany for 15 years without a criminal record and by being self-supporting) don't apply because they would have to give up Turkish citizenship and the right to own or inherit property in Turkey, if they ever got it.
Citizenship, immigration and asylum are all connected issues. After the unification of Germany in 1990, refugees began pouring into the country, and in 1992, 438,191 people from the Balkans, central Europe and elsewhere claimed political asylum there. What most of them really wanted was a better life, but until 1993, German asylum law entitled anybody who set foot on German soil to make a claim and to make years of appeals if the claim was denied.
The seemingly uncontrollable influx led to firebombings and anti-foreigner violence by neo-Nazi and other extremist groups and to a more general public clamor to cut back the flow of asylum-seekers.
In 1993, the German Parliament changed the asylum law to make it possible for German authorities to repel unqualified applicants at the point of entry. Asylum applications plummeted, and last year they had dropped to about 127,000.
More than half of these people were fleeing countries where xenophobia exploded into war. With the disintegration of Yugoslavia, hundreds of thousands of people who had lived as "Yugoslavs" in a multi-ethnic state were driven out of their homes, raped and murdered simply because they happened to be Muslim, Croat or Serb.
 
Can Slovaks Be Czechs?
 While Bosnia may be an extreme example, the results of intolerance can be seen elsewhere. Even in the Czech Republic, widely viewed as the most tolerant and democratic of all the formerly communist states of central Europe, a Czech human rights group estimates that about 20,000 Gypsies have been denied citizenship since 1993. No citizenship means no health benefits or pension rights, and Gypsies are not the only ones who have problems because of the Czech Republic's law, which grants citizenship most easily to ethnic Czechs. Slovaks, no matter how long they had lived in the Czech part of the country, became foreigners the instant the country split up, and had to apply for Czech citizenship if they wanted it. Many did not qualify. International organizations have urged Czech officials to change the law, but so far they have made no move to do so.
Problems like these exist on a larger scale throughout much of the former Soviet Union, causing political insecurity in central and eastern Europe. Disenfranchised Russian minorities in Belarus, Ukraine and the Baltics look to Russia for protection that Russian nationalists like Vladimir Zhirinovsky would be only too happy to give them.
Chaos produces political backlash, which is why the nationalist, Communist and Agrarian opposition to President Boris N. Yeltsin will have about 250 of the 450 seats in the Parliament that was elected last month.
Here in France, where double-digit unemployment may be the undoing of the welfare state, the right-wing National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen wins votes by saying that the 3 million unemployed French workers would find jobs if 3 million immigrants would go back where they came from.
But demographic experts say he's wrong. Low birth rates in France, and in Germany and Britain too, mean that workers from outside will be needed to pay the pensions of the baby-boomers who will start retiring after the turn of the century.
Maintaining their high standard of living is definitely something that appeals to the hearts of well-off Europeans, who might eventually be driven by economic self-interest into simplifying citizenship rules.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Turkish workers in Germany, even children born there, are rarely able to obtain German citizenship. (Metin Ylmaz/Paparazzi); A human rights group estimates that 20,000 Gypsies have been denied Czech citizenship since 1993. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES CITIZENSHIP (95%); IMMIGRATION (92%); CHILDREN (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (87%); NATURALIZATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SMUGGLING (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



169 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3284 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Pregnancies Test Hope's Limit

SERIES: THE FERTILITY MARKET: First of four articles - Conflict and Competition

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL 

 BODY:
Most mornings at 7 A.M., Sundays included, the dozens of waiting-room chairs are filled with well-turned-out, anxiously hopeful patients, as if at a casting call for a smart urban drama.
They have dropped by on their way to midtown Manhattan offices, or flown in from Hong Kong, Jerusalem and Caracas, to visit the in vitro fertilization clinic at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, one of the most renowned in the world. 
 In a field where the average I.V.F. clinic sees about 75 couples a year, Cornell treats more than 750, and reports success rates almost double the national average. Nationwide, only 1 in 5 couples trying I.V.F., or fertilization in a laboratory dish, takes home a baby.
Because of its reputation, the Cornell clinic, on Manhattan's Upper East Side, has become a financial powerhouse, generating a $2 million annual surplus for the Cornell Medical College and making possible physicians' salaries up to $1 million, more than the hospital pays its president.
Yet, the pressure to treat more and more patients contributed to the departure of a dozen scientists from the clinic laboratory last year. They left after complaining that high volume had them working seven-day weeks in an overcrowded lab and threatened the well-being of the human embryos they were responsible for.
Jacques Cohen, the former laboratory director, said that the clinic had grown beyond its capacity because of a desire by physicians and administrators to maximize income. But Dr. William J. Ledger, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at Cornell, who oversees the clinic, said that volume had risen because so many patients were clamoring for help.
"If you are the messiah for a kind of clinical care, you'll have people beating your door down," Dr. Ledger said.
The schism at Cornell, which ultimately led Dr. Cohen and his colleagues to join two rival clinics, highlights the combustible mix of elements in the thriving field of high-tech fertility, where there are many desperate patients who have spent years longing for a baby and not enough superior clinics to meet the demand.
In only a decade, the field has grown from 30 clinics to more than 300 in the United States, which do more than 40,000 in vitro fertilizations and similar procedures a year. A virtually free-market branch of medicine, the $350 million-a-year business has been largely exempt from government regulation and from the downward pressure on costs that insurance companies exert.
At a time when money from private insurers and the government is evaporating, successful clinics can enrich the doctors who run them and serve as profit centers for hospitals. The clinics' patients, largely affluent city dwellers, can afford to pay $25,000 or more. Because relatively few insurers cover in vitro fertilization, patients usually pay out of their own pockets.
Clinics compete aggressively for these patients, soliciting everywhere from the World Wide Web to hard-sell newspaper advertisements, like one run repeatedly by the Genetics and I.V.F. Institute in Fairfax, Va., that promises "immediate availability of eggs" from "100 fully screened donors."
Some clinics also woo star physicians, those who can prove that they can produce babies, with promises of big salaries and new laboratories, turning the doctors into real-life fertility gods.
The lack of outside oversight has been illustrated by an unfolding controversy at a clinic in Irvine, Calif., where state authorities say that as many as 80 women were duped by three doctors who removed eggs from some patients and, without their permission, implanted those eggs or fertilized embryos into other women. Some of the recipients gave birth, raising doubts about who the children's biological parents are.
Although the state has closed the clinic and patients have filed lawsuits, there has been no criminal action against the doctors. Prosecutors in Orange County, Calif., are apparently hamstrung because no laws prohibit embryo theft. The incident has drawn national attention, though it is one of only a very few controversial cases to affect the fertility business.
"I don't think I.V.F. should go away or ever will go away, but the commercialization aspects of it are very disappointing," said George Annas, a professor of health law at Boston University. "Of course, the entire medical profession is becoming more commercial, more concerned with profits and the bottom line. And I.V.F. clinics lead the way."
 
The Need
Many Candidates For Technology
The growth of high-tech reproduction has been driven by advances in the laboratory and by a swell of prospective patients as many members of the baby boom generation have delayed childbearing into their 30's and 40's. As women age, the quality of the eggs stored in their ovaries declines, scientists say.
Infertility, defined as an inability to conceive after a year of unprotected sexual relations, affects about 4.9 million American couples, 1 in 12, the National Center for Health Statistics says. In 40 percent of infertile couples the woman is infertile, in 40 percent the man is infertile, and in 20 percent the infertility cannot be explained.
Fewer than half the couples are successfully treated by conventional methods like fertility drugs, artificial insemination and surgery to unblock fallopian tubes.
The millions of others, as specialists like to point out, are candidates for high-tech remedies. In the in vitro fertilization process, by far the most common of what are called assisted-reproduction technologies, a woman's egg is withdrawn from her ovary and fertilized in a laboratory dish with sperm from her partner or a donor. If her own eggs are poor, she can pay a donor $2,000 to $3,000 for one. The resulting embryo is placed in her uterus by a catheter inserted through the vagina.
In the United States, 40,000 babies conceived through I.V.F. and similar procedures have been born since 1981. Medical entrepreneurs like to dream of how the field could be even bigger if it were as widely covered by insurance plans here as elsewhere. In France, where I.V.F. is a common benefit, it is done at a per-capita rate 5 times as high as in the United States. Only 10 states require insurance coverage.
In the absence of widespread benefits, 85 percent of the costs are borne by patients, which means that treatment is largely, though not exclusively, the preserve of the well-to-do. Many less affluent couples save for treatments the way others put away money for a down payment on a house. Couples postpone their lives, turning down better jobs to stay near a trusted clinic or taking leaves of absence from careers to pursue high-tech conception.
The median cost of one procedure, lasting about the length of a menstrual cycle, is $7,800, according to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Many patients try three, four or more times before having a baby or giving up. Success can be spectacular; more than half of all I.V.F. children are twins or triplets.
The success rate drops sharply for women 40 or over; among the New York region's 12 busiest clinics, the success rate for these older women varied in 1993 from zero to 15 percent, with most clinics in the single digits. "Age, overwhelmingly, is the single most important factor," said Dr. Zev Rosenwaks, the director of the Cornell infertility program. "Fertility is negligible after the age of 45. And at age 37, the slope becomes much steeper."
 
Ethics
Fears That Profit May Drive Advice
Considering their chances of becoming pregnant, are patients being overcharged? The industry says no, that in vitro fertilization is labor-intensive and that the $7,800 pays for a battery of ultrasound scans, an anesthesiologist during egg retrieval, and ovulation-stimulating drugs, which alone run $2,000 an attempt.
The typical clinic's bottom line is unknown, but Peter J. Neumann of the Harvard School of Public Health persuaded one hospital I.V.F. program to open its books on the condition that its name not be made public. The costs to the clinic were $8,000 for one procedure, sometimes called a cycle. The charge to patients was $11,000, for a profit of 37.5 percent, a margin that any business might envy.
About half the fertility clinics in the United States are associated with hospitals; the rest are run by groups of physicians, or even by sole practitioners. But whether they are private or nonprofit practices, all clinics are concerned about the bottom line and compete for patients, often fiercely.
Pacific Fertility Medical Centers, a chain of five private clinics in California, advertises on the radio, holds public seminars in Chicago and New York, and offers consultations by E-mail or toll-free call. Long-distance callers give their medical history, then speak for 20 minutes with a doctor.
Critics of profit-driven chains say that to satisfy investors, doctors must pull as many patients as possible into the pipeline, even if in vitro fertilization is not necessary. Harley Earl, president of Pacific Fertility's parent company, National Reproductive Medical Centers, said the group's doctors have incentive plans tied to their clinics' profitability, but the plans are set up in such a way "that no one could ever look at a patient as your next car payment." He said the privately held company, which plans to expand to the New York area in 1996, earns a profit, though he declined to say how much.
There is no guarantee of profitability in the fertility business. Because of high fixed costs -- about $1 million for equipment and about $500,000 annually for salaries -- clinics that perform fewer than 100 cycles a year have a hard time breaking even.
In 1992, IVF America became the first infertility chain to sell stock to the public, ambitiously asking $8 to $10 a share and predicting its clinics would one day blanket the country. Yet the company lost money through 1994, and reported a meager $18,000 profit for the first nine months of 1995. Its stock now trades around $2.50 and the company has drastically altered its focus: it manages the business affairs of seven clinics, primarily on the East Coast, but it has withdrawn from setting uniform medical protocols.
Health economists say there is no doubt prices for in vitro fertilization are higher than they otherwise would be if more insurance companies covered the treatment, exerting pressure on doctors to cut fees and unneeded procedures.
A study of infertile couples treated by one health-maintenance organization, HMO Illinois, recently found that the cost of making a woman pregnant was strikingly lower than in traditional fee-for-service practices. The H.M.O. cost was $15,000, compared with $27,000 for traditional doctors. Success rates were not significantly different.
HMO Illinois performed fewer surgeries and realistically informed patients when it was time to give up, said Dr. Arnold L. Widen, chief medical director of Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Illinois, which sponsored the study. "In the fee-for-service sector, as long as a woman is willing to go on, the doctors might say, 'Let's keep on trying,' " Dr. Widen said. "Obviously, one makes more fees that way."
Doctors inside and outside the specialty said that to increase revenue, some unscrupulous clinics push patients toward costly high-tech solutions when they would be just as successful with simpler treatments, or when their odds of success are so low they should not be encouraged at all.
"Certain providers have strong financial incentives to take patients to I.V.F., which may lead patients there who don't need it," said Dr. Norbert Gleicher, head of the Center for Human Reproduction, a group of 11 Chicago-area infertility practices.
On the other hand, impatient couples sometimes demand I.V.F., and doctors find it hard to set a more conservative course.
Critics say the clinics are not always straightforward about the odds of succeeding. "I've often said that the one thing these clinics ought to do is to tell patients at the beginning, 'You will probably not have a child,' " said Professor Annas, who is also the ethical adviser to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine. "Morally, that's the only truthful thing to say."
To desperate couples, even a 1 in 5 chance of having a baby looks good. Joey and Rosa Antico, a Staten Island couple, said they struggled with infertility for 10 years before attempting I.V.F. and were willing to try anything, even if it seemed a long shot. Mrs. Antico, now 36, became pregnant on her second try at Advanced Fertility Services, a private clinic in Manhattan. Her triplet sons just turned 5.
"I never thought about it not working," she recalled. "I was a little worried the first time it didn't take. But I thought, 'If it's meant to be, it's meant to be.' "
Direct evidence of patients' being misled about treatment is scarce, largely because very few scientifically precise studies of the effectiveness of I.V.F. have been done. It is hard to say if a couple who had a baby after treatment might have achieved pregnancy by less aggressive means.
A 1993 Canadian Royal Commission that reviewed hundreds of studies worldwide concluded that I.V.F. was unproven except for women with severe tubal blockage. For other diagnoses in which the procedure is routinely done -- ovulation defects, sperm defects or unexplained infertility -- the existing studies were inconclusive.
"Unproven and quite possibly ineffective procedures are being offered as medical treatment," the commission reported, "and women are undertaking the risks of these procedures without knowing whether they are more likely to have a child than if they received no treatment."
Dr. Paul W. Zarutskie, president of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology, a subgroup of I.V.F. specialists within the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, said that simple observation proved the effectiveness of treatment.
"You see people who can't get pregnant and then move them toward assisted reproductive technology," Dr. Zarutskie said, "and 20 percent-plus of our patients are going home with babies, and you've got to think we're doing something effective."
 
The Odds
Success Rates Can Be Misleading
A 21.2 percent success rate per cycle, which is the average of the 267 clinics that reported data to S.A.R.T., Dr. Zarutskie's group, for 1993, the last year surveyed, still means that 78.8 percent of couples fail. Because of those long odds, a clinic that can claim to beat them by even a few percentage points has a powerful lure. But it also has an incentive to manipulate the numbers.
Since 1991, the Federal Trade Commission has won five cease-and-desist agreements over deceptive advertising claims with fertility clinics in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts and New York. In the New York case, IVF America, based in Purchase, N.Y., admitted no wrongdoing but agreed to drop claims about success rates that the F.T.C. said were misleading.
"You don't open your newspaper and see, 'We have a 21 percent success rate with transplanted hearts,' " said Michael Katz, a Federal medical investigator. "This is the only branch of medicine doing success-rate advertising on this scale. It succeeds because of the desperation and emotional vulnerability of the patients."
In 1994, Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City paid $4 million to hundreds of childless former infertility patients to settle a suit over false success-rate claims.
The suit stemmed from an investigation conducted by the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs. It charged Mount Sinai with exaggerating success rates in a promotional brochure and a flyer, which claimed that the "take-home baby rate" was 20 percent. But according to data submitted to S.A.R.T. at the time, Mount Sinai's delivery rate was really much lower, 13.7 percent or 10.9 percent, depending on how it was measured.
The affair seems to have wounded the Mount Sinai program, once among the most popular in New York. Its director resigned soon after the charges in 1992, and recently volume dropped about 12 percent, from 408 cycles in 1994 to about 350 in 1995.
Dr. Maria Bustillo, the current director, said patients had declined because of a decision by the hospital to reduce its program and because of the rise of other clinics in the region. "There's just a lot more competition all around," Dr. Bustillo said.
Success-rate figures are easily manipulated. Advocates for patients say the most meaningful rate is the most conservative: live deliveries as a percent of the number of treatment cycles that a clinic initiates. Counting pregnancies alone can be misleading, because about 18 percent of I.V.F. pregnancies end in miscarriage.
S.A.R.T. has increasingly refined the statistics it compiles, and makes reports available to the public on 267 individual clinics. Still, the data's accuracy is impossible to confirm because it is reported voluntarily. A 1992 Federal law requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta to independently collect and publish data from all clinics. But since the law went into effect in 1994, it has not been carried out for lack of financing. During the ongoing Federal budget crisis, the Clinton Administration has declined to ask for the money.
A new round of calls for regulation has surrounded the inquiry at the once-prestigious Center for Reproductive Health in Irvine, Calif., which was shut down in June after charges of improper egg and embryo handling. State and Federal authorities are investigating claims by patients and former clinic employees against three physicians, including the former director, Dr. Ricardo Asch, a pioneer of gamete intrafallopian transfer, a variation of I.V.F.
Dr. Asch, in an interview broadcast in the fall on ABC-TV, denied making improper transfers of eggs and embryos. Now facing numerous civil suits that make the same allegations as the state authorities, Dr. Asch has sold his two Orange County houses and is now practicing in Mexico City.
So far, no criminal charges have been brought in the case, in part, it appears, because embryo theft is not a criminal offense in California. A bill to criminalize it is likely to be introduced in the next session of the California Legislature.
Despite the battery of civil suits in the case, medical malpractice suits are uncommon in infertility. "People don't sue, even when they're misled," Professor Annas said. "I think that's because many people feel shame or embarrassment about seeing a fertility doctor in the first place."
Responding to patients' concerns, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine has been drafting voluntary guidelines on record keeping, informed consent by patients and the handling of embryos that are frozen for future implantation.
Many physicians oppose more regulation, saying it would increase the cost to patients, impede research and fail to prevent the misdeeds Dr. Asch and his colleagues are accused of.
"All this bad press makes the government do things that are well-meaning but misguided," said Dr. Jamie Grifo, director of the infertility clinic at New York University Medical Center. "If we're all suspect because of one bad apple, it makes it hard to provide services. There comes a point where you have to trust the person taking care of you or you just shouldn't do it."
 
The Fertility Market
 
TODAY: Competition for patients and the best doctors drives the industry.
 
TOMORROW: Increasingly, the infertile buy eggs from healthy, young women.
 
TUESDAY: The infertile have a culture and a language all their own.
 
WEDNESDAY: Bringing up I.V.F. babies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Zev Rosenwaks, director of the Cornell infertility clinic, with some of the children conceived there. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Successful in vitro fertilization often produces multiple births: From left, Sergio, Philip and Matthew Antico are I.V.F. triplets. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. 18)
 
Chart: "The Busiest Clinics in the Region" list the busiest fertility clinics in the metropolitan area in 1993 (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HOSPITAL-CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER (83%); I V F INSTITUTE (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HOSPITAL-CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER I V F INSTITUTE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); SURVEYS AND SERIES; ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); INSURANCE (84%); HOSPITALS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (76%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



170 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: A Montana Town Sees Mine's Gold And Dross

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: COOKE CITY, Mont.

 BODY:
From Canadian mining barons to President Clinton to American environmentalists, the bitterest mining controversy of recent months has swirled like an alpine blizzard around this tiny mountain village of 80 people.
On one side, Canada's largest natural resources conglomerate is determined to dig $750 million of gold and silver out of a nearby 8,900-foot peak. On the other, environmentalists assert that the mine would inevitably leak acid into Yellowstone National Park, three miles to the west. 
 Often overlooked in the international clash of press releases and lawsuits are the residents here who would be affected. In a town founded by gold miners, one might expect to find people enthusiastic about a plan to open the state's largest gold mine on Henderson Mountain, a peak named after a gold panner. But skepticism about the proposal is surprisingly plentiful here, reflecting a growing hostility to mining in Montana, a state that is shifting its economic base from mining to tourism.
Even at the Miner's Saloon, amid mining decor of picks and shovels, criticism is rife. "I'm vehemently against it," said Chris Warren, a 24-year-old resident, who was echoed by the bartender and four men nursing drinks at the bar.
In dissent, the saloon keeper, Larry Wicker, said he appreciated the younger generation's patronage, but not their views on mining. "If it weren't for the miners, Cooke City would be part of little Russia," he said, referring to this sliver of private land surrounded by Government land, including Yellowstone and two national forests.
In a tribute to Montana's 19th century mining origins, the state seal bears the motto, "oro y plata," gold and silver. But Montana's income from mining and logging was surpassed in the early 1990's by recreational tourism -- fly fishing, elk hunting, snowmobiling, hiking, camping and rafting. Anglers spend $410 million a year in this state.
The shifting political winds from this economic transformation are buffeting the Henderson Mountain mine project, which cannot proceed until it wins environmental clearances from various state and Federal authorities. The process could easily take two years or more.
On the far side of a mountain saddle here, the mining company, Crown Butte Mines Inc., would hollow out Henderson Mountain at the rate of 1,500 tons a day. Working at almost 9,000 feet, miners would combat a climate in which there are 23 frost-free days and about 40 feet of snow a year.
Crown Butte purchased the mining rights on the private land after deciding that technological advances and new discoveries would make mining profitable.
Environmentalists, pointing out Old Faithful geyser only 60 miles to the southwest, said the proposed mining site is in the nation's second-most seismically active area after the San Andreas Fault. They contend that an earthquake would rupture a disposal site filled with potentially toxic wastes from the operation.
But Crown Butte Mines maintains that it would build a dam strong enough to withstand any tremor of the magnitude registered in the last 150 years. While mining advocates often paint their environmental opponents as outsiders or newcomers, polls indicate that Montana voters are increasingly hostile to new mines and to economic growth, especially if it means new residents.
In a poll of 817 registered voters conducted in December for The Billings Gazette, 48 percent of the respondents said that economic benefits would not outweigh possible environmental damage from the project here, the New World Mine. Only 29 percent favored the mine.
Montana, with a population of 850,000, has only six people per square mile. But 31 percent of respondents called for no more population growth, and 45 percent agreed with the statement: "We're approaching our limits." The poll's margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
The dispute over the mine may heat up soon when the United States Forest Service releases an environmental impact statement.
In the six months leading up to this report, world environmental attention focused on this remote mountain village. A city in name only, Cooke has a one-room school and a three-block-long Main Street that ends in a snowdrift half the year.
On Aug. 25, President Clinton thundered over Cooke City's proposed mine site in a military helicopter. Afterward, he ordered a two-year ban on mining in the 4,500 acres of National Forest land surrounding Henderson Mountain.
In September, the village visitors were members of the World Heritage Committee, which monitors sites designated by international treaty as having "universal value to mankind." Citing the mine project, among other threats, the committee added Yellowstone to its list of "World Heritage in Danger."
To drum up support, Crown Butte hired as a consultant Birch Bayh, a former United States Senator with a record as an environmentalist. The largest investor in Crown Butte is Noranda Inc., Canada's largest natural resources company, which is controlled by the Toronto financiers Edward and Peter Bronfman.
The debate here speaks of larger tensions between mining and recreation in the state. "Mining is an anachronism now -- the town has become dependent on Yellowstone for its livelihood," said Jim Barrett, a local carpenter who is chairman of the Beartooth Alliance, a local environmental group that opposes the mine. "To plop this huge industrial complex into here would not only disrupt our lives, but would have serious environmental consequences."
Some people think the mine would mar tourism for a town that has four campgrounds, three hunting outfitters, three snowmobile rental companies and 15 hotels, motels and bed and breakfasts. But at Joan and Bill's Family Restaurant on Main Street, a patron, Lyle Hendricks, said the $100 million mining investment would outweigh any harm to tourism. "People worry about the stress of losing a job when the mine plays out in 20 years," said Mr. Hendricks, a bearded man who builds steel Quonset huts here. "What about the stress of not having a job now?"
After Mr. Hendricks left, the waitress, Jennifer Mullee, 20, commented, "In 10 years, the mining company will be gone, and the land will be destroyed for our children."
Opinion surveys of Montana adults indicate that women oppose mining by far greater margins than men.
Mine supporters like the saloon keeper, Mr. Wicker, say other mines have proved safe. In Jardine, Mont., he said, an underground gold mine has burrowed to "within yards" of Yellowstone Park with no ill result.
A mining engineer by training, Mr. Wicker dismissed the mine's opponents as "flatlanders, people from Nebraska." He said "Everyone who gets here says, 'I'm the last person here, I've got my little piece of Montana.' " Mr. Wicker said he plans to open a poker room and expand his saloon hours if the mine is approved.
Mining officials promise to leave local creek water cleaner than when they found it. As a legacy of past mines, sections of local streams still run rust red from acid drainage.
"We can use some of the money made from the mine to clean up the area, to backfill the old mine sites," Joseph J. Baylis, president of Crown Butte, said in a telephone interview from Toronto. "At the end of the day, it will be better than today."
But experience has left many Montanans skeptical of mining companies. "In 20 years, the town will boom and bust, just like Butte," said Matt Schneider, the Mining Saloon's 22-year-old antimining bartender.
Long fabled as "The Richest Hill on Earth," the gold and copper deposits of Butte, Mont., petered out in recent decades, leaving a legacy of pollution and unemployment. The Atlantic Richfield Company inherited much responsibility for the environmental mess in 1983 when it bought the principal Butte operator, the Anaconda Minerals Company.
In October, in a move that reflected Montana's tougher stand towards mining companies, the State Justice Department sent Arco a cleanup bill of $713 million.

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of those backing the proposal for a new gold and silver mine at Cooke City, Mont., is Larry Wicker, standing in front of his saloon.; "In 20 years, the town will boom and bust, just like Butte," said Matt Schneider, a bartender, who opposes a plan for a gold and silver mine. (Photographs by Harry Mayer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CROWN BUTTE MINES INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COOKE CITY (MONT); MONTANA; YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); MONTANA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; MINES AND MINING ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HIKING (78%); MAMMALS (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); SPORT FISHING (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); TOURISM (68%); LEISURE TRAVEL (67%); WINTER SPORTS (67%); SPORT HUNTING (63%); SNOWMOBILING (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (56%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



171 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Mansion Is a Steal, If Unwieldy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON 

DATELINE: WESTPORT, Conn., Jan. 5

 BODY:
The view from the old Eno house is quite something: a sweep of water across the mouth of the Saugatuck River; Long Island Sound stretching out beyond Bluff Point; the hazy blue line of Long Island on the horizon.
Unfortunately, the 119-year-old house no longer comes with the view. Someone with modern, and more modest, house plans is buying the waterfront site, and one way or another, the Eno house must go -- all 15,000 square feet and 32 rooms of it. The desperation asking price, to save it from demolition: $1. 
 Cash and carry. You buy it, you move it.
Facing a Feb. 1 demolition deadline, the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation persuaded the estate's trustee last month to basically give the Colonial Revival mansion to anyone who could take it. And the very thing that doomed it -- its highly desirable waterfront site -- is now its best hope: the house is too large to go by road under the nearby Connecticut Turnpike, but movers could put it on a barge in its backyard and float it down Long Island Sound.
"It's not a big problem from the point of the physical moving," said Carl Tuxill, publisher of The Structural Mover, the magazine of the International Association of Structural Movers. "It's economical to do. Part of the problem, though, is who can afford a 15,000-square-foot house? They're great for museums."
A museum, a private home, a bed-and-breakfast, an inn -- the trust puts no condition on the uses to which a saved building is put. "Our goal is to not have this beautiful building and these beautiful materials end up in a junkyard," the trust's executive director, Laura Weir Clarke, said as she toured the house for the first time today. It was built in 1877 for William P. Eno, an architect who helped design New York City's traffic control system.
Since the house was listed on the trust's Historic Properties Exchange last month, word has slowly spread. On Dec. 30, Anne Stillman, the editor of the exchange newsletter who proposed the barge rescue, toured the house with two interested couples, one of whom had an empty lot in East Hampton, L.I.
"I think they were impressed by the house, but I think they were also overwhelmed," Ms. Stillman said of the East Hampton couple today, as she prepared to show the house to a third group.
Not every big old house is worth saving, Ms. Clarke acknowledged. In 50 years, time is likely to judge harshly the sprawling balloon-frame trophy houses that bloomed across the New York region during the economic boom of the 1980's. But in room after room, she marveled at the balance and proportion and detail of this shingled summer home.
In the octagonal entryway of the house, uninhabited since 1987, dust covers a starburst parquet floor. The room's corners are curved, and doors are also curved to fit flushly into them. Bedrooms have reading nooks. The ballroom, the one room with serious ceiling damage, has a built-in player organ.
The master bathroom, more the size of a master bedroom, is worthy of a modern trophy house; slabs of marble cover the walls; the shower aims three different forces of spray at different parts of the body -- one knob is ominously labeled Liver Spray; built-in cupboards hold shelves for shirts and socks.
"They don't build things like this anymore," Ms. Stillman said. "Not often. Not ever, I'd say."
The neighborhood is testimony to her comment. Scarcely 20 yards from the windows of the conservatory is the next house, modern and angular. Up and down this side of the Saugatuck River, the contemporary look has captured the waterfront. And now a new house with a pool and pool house is to take its place.
The estate trustee, Lorna Christophersen, lives in the carriage house that guards the main house. Her father, Charles Blount Jr., an industrialist, bought the estate in 1951, and for him as well as for the person buying the estate now, the house was not the attraction.
"He was looking for a dock for his boat," Ms. Christophersen said, "and it happened to come with a 32-room house."
The estate, subdivided into five one-acre lots, has been for sale since 1993, reduced sharply in price from the original $11.5 million for it all, and the lot on which the house stands is under contract for sale.
Ms. Christophersen said her main regret was that the local historic district commission did not act sooner to save the house. It was entered on the State Register of Historic Places in 1988, but the designation does not prevent an owner from demolishing a building.
"We haven't hidden this house," she said. "It's been on the market for two years."
She is philosophical about someone not wanting to live in the house. She moved out of it, after all, in 1987, after trying for years to keep up with new repairs that seemed to present themselves every day. The house is structurally sound, but its plumbing and wiring are old, it springs leaks and it is expensive to heat.
"I can't fault anyone for wanting to live in a modern, upgraded house," she said. "It's lovely to have historic buildings, but after living in one as long as I did, there are certain drawbacks."
She laughed: "I never went in the servants' wing. We used it as storage. But of course, when friends were driving through, we never could say we didn't have room."

GRAPHIC: Photo: By Feb. 1, the 119-year-old Eno house, with its 32 rooms, must be gone from its site on the Saugatuck River. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); HISTORIC PROPERTIES EXCHANGE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION HISTORIC PROPERTIES EXCHANGE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENO HOUSE (WESTPORT, CONN); MANSIONS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (88%); HISTORY (88%); HOME PRICES (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (74%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE WILLIAM P ENO (70%); ANNE STILLMAN (69%); LORNA CHRISTOPHERSEN (65%); LAURA WEIR CLARKE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



172 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Economic Survival Worries Both Sides in Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
For the 30,000 building maintenance workers who have formed picket lines on New York's frigid streets, the issue is job security: they fear that building owners will lay them off and replace them with lower-wage workers if a two-tier pay system is put into effect.
For the companies that own and manage 1,000 New York City office buildings, the issue is squeezing down one of the few costs they can control: wages. They insist that paying new workers lower salaries is the best way to stop the spiraling cost of cleaning and maintaining buildings at a time when the real-estate market has been mired in an eight-year slump. 
 Michael McGreevy, the white-haired lobby manager at 11 West 42d Street, fears that he'll be thrown out of work if management wins -- notwithstanding his 35 years on the job.
"When they're able to hire people for half of what I'm making, they'll want guys like me out the door tomorrow," said Mr. McGreevy, bundled up on Friday in a gray-plaid scarf and beige overcoat outside the 32-story tower overlooking Bryant Park. "I very much need to continue working -- I have a 15-year-old daughter I still have to put through college."
As the elevator operators, cleaners and other building workers talked about why they took to the streets Thursday, it quickly became clear that the strike was provoked by fears like Mr. McGreevy's. After seeing company after company lay off thousands, even tens of thousands of workers, the maintenance workers are convinced that New York's building owners and managers will not hesitate to throw them overboard, too. The cascading layoffs that have characterized the American economy in the last decade have corroded whatever trust the strikers had in their employers.
"If management is able to hire two new workers for the price of one, it doesn't take a brain surgeon to figure out what they'll do," said Ernest Palma, a maintenance worker for nine years at the same building as Mr. McGreevy. "They'll find any excuse to get rid of you."
The owners of New York's commercial buildings, as well as the companies they hire to manage and maintain those buildings, insist that they will not dismiss current workers merely to make way for low-wage replacements. They say workers can only be dismissed for poor performance. Like the strikers, the building owners and managers say the strike is also over economic survival. These companies say Manhattan's real-estate market is so weak that the costs of maintaining a building -- taxes, heating, electricity and wages for maintenance workers -- often exceed the rents they charge.
These building owners have fought for tax abatements, they have reduced their utility bills and now, with unions on the defensive around the nation, they are going after what they see as a fat target for savings. They say they can no longer afford what they consider to be past generosity to employees. They say their intention is to turn a profit and stop the exodus of tenants to New Jersey and other competing states.
Charles Mahoney, a managing director at Tishman Speyer Properties, which owns and operates 11 West 42d, said, "If we don't keep our costs down, our tenants and potential tenants are obviously going to continue to go elsewhere in the tri-state area, and our vacancy rate is already pretty high. In New Jersey, Connecticut and Long Island, buildings are paying their cleaning people $6.50 an hour and we pay them more than double that."
Despite their clashing views, labor and management make a similar argument -- New York's economy will be affected by the outcome of the strike. The strikers contend that if the starting salary of maintenance workers, currently just under $30,000, is cut to $18,000, as management proposes, workers will barely be able to eke out a living, and as a result New York's retailers and housing market will suffer.
But management asserts that if starting salaries are not cut as part of an effort to rein in costs, New York's real estate market and its overall economy will continue to languish.
According to Mr. Mahoney, cleaning and maintenance costs come to about $2 a square foot per year in an office building like 11 West 42d. If those costs rise, he said, it could mean the difference between making a profit and sliding toward bankruptcy.
Two dollars a square foot may not sound like much, Mr. Mahoney said, but it is a large fraction of the $29-a-square foot rent typical in midtown Manhattan. In the many million-square-foot towers, $2 a square foot amounts to $2 million a year.
"The workers who clean New York buildings are the highest paid cleaning personnel in the nation," Mr. Mahoney said. "If we can hold down those costs, the savings would be passed directly to our tenants. He and other buildings managers say high costs are a major reason why the vacancy rate for midtown office buildings is 15 percent and is 30 percent downtown.
But, perhaps as a demonstration of how little trust exists between labor and management, the strikers scoff at owners' assertions that buildings are losing money or barely breaking even. In their eyes, the typical building owner is a billionaire who travels around the city in a stretch limousine.
Outside 11 West 42d, the distrust between the two sides grew last week when the building management hired temporary janitors to cross the picket line. As strikers patrolled the sidewalks, with red-and-white picket signs hanging from their chests, they shouted "Scab, Scab" as a temporary worker swept the floor under the building's intricately carved entry arch.
Tensions ran so high that on Friday, two maintenance workers were arrested after they rushed to defend Mr. McGreevy during an altercation he had with someone he had branded a scab.
"They're not just trying to cut wages, they're trying to break the union," said Olga Rodriguez, a cleaning woman. "'Why else would they be using scabs?"
Police reported 32 arrests around the city since the strike began Thursday, mostly for minor offenses like disorderly conduct, trespassing, resisting arrest and criminal mischief. Most of the arrests have taken place in the downtown and midtown areas, the police said.
Officials complained of a concentration of vandalism and interference with traffic around the World Trade Center, and Thursday night U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin issued an order in an attempt to head off further outbreaks. She decided Friday evening to keep the order in place after complaints that strikers had thrown eggs at people and cars, strewn garbage around the Center, and poured water and oil on the floors, said Jeffrey S. Green, general counsel for the Port Authority.
Justice Stuart Cohen of Supreme Court in Manhattan issued an injunction late yesterday afternoon ordering the union not to engage in any acts of violence and directing it to make a public statement against the use of force and violence.
A union spokesman was skeptical yesterday about the vandalism reports. "Obviously, the union doesn't condone any violence," said Dennis Sheehan, the spokesman. "We can't confirm all these incidents that have been alluded to."
On the picket line, Mr. Palma credits the strength of the union -- Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union -- for winning the workers a salary that he says enables him to afford a two-bedroom apartment in Briarwood, Queens, and, with the help of a second job, a nest egg to send his two sons to college.
Many workers acknowledge that the $573 they receive each week is a respectable salary, especially for workers in their early 20's who have a high school education. Some even go as far as to say it is odd that, under the contract that expired Dec. 31, a 22-year-old who has worked as an elevator operator for three months earns the same amount as an elevator operator of three decades.
As for management's proposal to cut starting salaries by 40 percent, Mr. Palma said, with a laugh, "Imagine raising a family on $350 a week in New York City -- and that's before taxes are taken out. I wouldn't want to have to live on that."
But management reiterates that workers like Mr. Palma would not be affected. Rather, Mr. Mahoney said, the industry has proposed a 2 percent annual wage increases for current workers and a better dental plan. But, he said, the only way that management can afford these steps is by reducing the starting pay.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael McGreevy; Olga Rodriguez; Nelso Pina

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; LABOR; STRIKES; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); STRIKES (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN CHARLES MAHONEY (74%); MICHAEL MCGREEVY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



173 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Time for Straight Talk

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Secretary of State Warren Christopher travels to Damascus this week in another bid to persuade President Hafez al-Assad of Syria to make a dramatic leap forward in peace talks with Israel. Wouldn't it be nice if Mr. Christopher said this:
"Hafez, it's good to see you again. Would you mind if we set our chairs facing each other for once. Talking to you for nine hours with our chairs side by side gives me a terrible pain in the neck. 
 "Hafez, this is my 15th visit to Damascus. That's a lot of visits. I've only been to China once, Moscow four times, Mexico once and Japan four times. But this will be my last. Because I have just one brief message for you: You are living in a world of illusions if you think that any Israeli government is going to give you the Golan Heights back without you making a sincere, personal and emotional overture to the Israeli people -- without you making a psychological breakthrough. You keep refusing to do that. Instead, you get lost in nit-picking details or in sending smoke signals that only a Middle East expert could understand.
"Sometimes, Hafez, I ask myself: 'What planet are you living on?' Israelis have had Anwar Sadat address their Parliament in Jerusalem. They've had King Hussein eulogize their Prime Minister at Mount Herzl military cemetery. Do you really think they are impressed by news reports that your ambassador to America took off his tie when he met with Israeli negotiators in Washington last week? Let's see, King Hussein buried Yitzhak Rabin, Anwar Sadat hugged Golda Meir and your ambassador took off his tie -- but wouldn't allow photographers to take his picture! C'mon, get serious.
"Hafez, the Israelis control the Golan Heights. You want them back. The only way you can get Israel to give them to you is through a deal that is endorsed by a majority of Israelis. But there is no way that an Israeli majority is going to give up the strategic Golan Heights, to the country that has been its bitterest enemy, unless you engage Israelis directly and in a way that signals to your own people that you have irreversibly chosen the path of peace. Do not kid yourself. Israelis feel no moral, strategic or economic reason to leave the Golan Heights. The only thing that can induce them to do so is if you paint for them a vivid and appealing picture of what peaceful relations between Israel and Syria would be like -- but that is precisely what you and your negotiators refuse to do.
"I know you have your own legitimate strategic concerns, and they must be addressed. But if you want the Golan back on terms you can live with, you have to make this psychological breakthrough with Israelis first, because the Golan is not just any territory for Israelis. It is the symbol of their geographic vulnerability. Your challenge is to make Israelis look up at those heights and feel they are no more threatening than the border between Norway and Sweden. Your challenge is to make Israelis look at those heights and say to themselves: 'What is important is not what I see before my eyes, which is Syria on the high ground and Israel in the valley, but rather what I feel coming from Damascus, which is a new sense of reconciliation, integration and acceptance.'
"You keep looking to me to pressure Israel. But only you can do that. Only you, by creating a psychological breakthrough with Israel, can give birth to a real, popular, Israeli movement that will press the Israeli Government for a deal with Syria.
"So, I'll be on my way now, Hafez, and I won't be back. Because I realize that my frequent visits here have only been getting in the way. They have been protecting you from having to make a decision, while giving you international approval and regional influence. Without this peace process, Hafez, you would be as popular and as relevant as Fidel Castro. I've insulated you from that. In the meantime, I've paid only scant attention to Yasir Arafat and King Hussein, who made the really tough decisions for peace and are struggling to keep it alive, but with little help from me. I'm not going to let that happen any longer.
"In the old days Hafez, I would have given you my phone number and told you to call when you were serious. But that wouldn't be appropriate now. Because Hafez, you and the Israelis don't need a mediator. You need a chauffeur. It's an hour's drive from Damascus to the Israeli border, Hafez. Make that trip, and everything is possible. Don't make that trip, and nothing is possible."
(Wednesday: Mr. Assad's answer.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; ISRAEL; GOLAN HEIGHTS; ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); CEMETERIES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



174 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

Government economic statistics scheduled for release this week will not be available because of the partial shutdown of the Federal Government stemming from the budget stalemate.

Monday
 
The fourth annual West-East Conference of Ministers opens in Baltimore. Senior officials from the leading industrial democracies and emerging Eastern European nations meet with business leaders to try to find ways to remove obstacles to freer trade.
 
The American Farm Bureau Federation holds its annual meeting in Reno, with Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman scheduled to give the opening address.
 
Tuesday
 
The Macworld Expo trade show opens in San Francisco, featuring software and hardware for Macintosh computers.
 
Robert T. Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, addresses the National Association of Business Economists.
 
Motorola is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter results. The report will be closely watched because of the current uneasiness throughout the high-technology sector. In the fourth quarter of 1994, Motorola earned 86 cents a share. The forecast: 91 cents a share, up 5.8 percent.
 
The Semiconductor Industry Association reports the book-to-bill ratio for computer-chip makers in December. In November, the ratio was 1.06, up from 1.01 in October. Any number above 1 is a sign of an expanding market.
 
Wednesday
 
The Mortgage Bankers Association of America reports on home mortgage applications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (83%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (57%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (57%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (57%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (57%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTRONICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



175 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2509 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION VIEW;
Sure, We're All Just One Big Happy Family

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN DeMOTT; Benjamin DeMott is the author of "The Trouble With Friendship: Why Americans Can't Think Straight About Race," to be published this month by Atlantic Monthly Press.

 BODY:
FOR A MOMENT -- THE MOMENT OF THE verdict in the O. J. Simpson trial in October -- white America discovered race difference. Film and photographs of reactions to the words "not guilty" proved that blacks and whites don't see things the same. Troubled citizens spoke in shock -- on televised "town meetings" and call-in radio shows, and in letters to the editor -- about the gap between the races. "As blacks exulted at Simpson's acquittal," wrote Henry Louis Gates Jr. in The New Yorker, "horrified whites had a fleeting sense that . . . blacks really were strangers in their midst."
Why are blacks and whites so divided? Repeatedly posed, this question was nevertheless vacuous. What needed serious inquiry were other questions. Why are whites so dim about the division between the races? What forces, what processes, lulled white America into assuming that blacks and whites were ever on the same page? 
 One answer is clear. Over the last generation this country's politics and pop culture have relentlessly sold the notion that the races have achieved equality and are the same. For an assortment of reasons, a great many Americans have bought the scam. Our most powerful media images depict black-white sameness. They are feel-good images. They fail to connect with the texture of city life familiar to the 60 percent of black Americans who have not reached middle-class status: the life of the projects, or of the jobless, the homeless and the illiterate. And they do not begin to reflect the deep conflicts of opinion between American blacks and whites at every class level.
The media images I speak of, remote from urban fact, have been teaching mass audiences everywhere that race differences belong to the past, that inequalities of power and status and means have disappeared, that at work and play blacks are as likely as whites to be found at the top as at the bottom, and that the agency responsible for the creation of near-universal black-white sameness -- the only agency capable of producing progress -- is that of friendship between the races.
Naturally the images teach without sermonizing. No preacher interrupts the NBC feed on weekdays at 6:59 A.M. to intone with podium sonority that a minute hence the "Today" show will conduct a morally improving demonstration of interracial collaboration and equality in action to which all right-feeling, God-fearing viewers should devotedly attend. Bryant Gumbel and Katie Couric, firm friends, simply show up, cozily communicating mutual enjoyment (Katie on occasion answers Bryant's teasing with a gentle nudge to his side). There is no competitive wariness or boss-underling antsiness; recurring casual remarks suggest familiarity with each other's after-hours pleasures and irritations.
In place of a lecture about black-white equality and sameness, "Today" brings to life a version of the thing itself, presenting it every weekday morning as the national norm. And thereafter come blizzards of sameness and sympathy narratives -- talk shows, sitcoms, cop shows, commercials, late night, prime time, all the time. In the hit NBC series "Seinfeld," George struggles to show his black boss that he's capable of winning and keeping a black friend. On "Designing Women," now in syndication on Lifetime, Anthony and Julia, black and white business partners, reveal how sympathy and affection cause race differences to vanish in the Atlanta environs. On "Murphy Brown," Candice Bergen comes to like and admire a new station manager, a black man who initially seemed threatening; the two make common cause for "standards."
On cartoon shows, jokes and gimmicks regularly highlight black-white palship. (When Freddie Flintstone of "Flintstone Kids" takes a picture of friends with his Polarock camera, a bespectacled black buddy is featured prominently.)
Switch channels -- to reruns or what you will. On "Doogie Howser, M.D." the teen-age doctor hero is held hostage in a drugstore holdup but -- here's street life loud and bold -- he not only makes friends with the black teen-ager who's threatening him but also suggests the possibility of a hospital job. Persuaded by his new buddy, the hoodlum releases the hostages and turns himself in. On "L.A. Law" a young black lawyer whose mother opposes his love affair with a white woman explains, "Mom, the reason I love her is that inside she's just like you."
Jessica, a black lawyer on the CBS soap "As the World Turns," marries white, debonair Duncan. On the talk show "Later," Camille Paglia compares herself to Anita Hill. At all hours of the day and night a black woman and a white woman (Dionne Warwick and Linda Georgian) converse companionably on the Preview channel, talking up the Psychic Friends Network. Black and white buddy stars -- Billy Crystal, Robin Williams and Whoopi Goldberg -- are co-hosts for HBO's annual "Comic Relief" telethon. HBO's "Dream On" chronicles the black-white friendship of Martin Tupper (Brian Benben) and Eddie Charles (Dorien Wilson).
Commercial content matches program content. Tonight's good-buddy blacks and whites discuss, in pairs, the virtues of products ranging from Cadillacs to Tylenol. (The black half of each pair usually explains the superiority of the product.) Yesteryear's memorable pitchmen-sidekicks included Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Larry Bird, who chummily chaffed each other while explaining the virtues of Lay's potato chips. The old cronies exited together, a makeup cap on Larry's head redoing them into interchangeable, dome-headed twins.
Round the clock, ceaselessly, the elements of this orthodoxy of sameness are grouped and regrouped, helping to root an unspoken but felt understanding throughout white America: race problems belong to the passing moment. Race problems do not involve group interests and conflicts developed over centuries. Race problems are being smoothed into nothingness, gradually, inexorably, by good will, affection, points of light.
RACE-DELETING THEMES IN the movies are uncommonly various. At times -- see "Pulp Fiction" -- interracial sameness emerges in contexts of violence and amorality. At times the good news is delivered through happy faces, loving gestures, memorable one-liners. Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump loses his beloved best buddy, a black soldier (Mykelti Williamson), in combat and thereafter devotes years to honoring a pledge made to the departed. In "Driving Miss Daisy," rich Jessica Tandy turns to Morgan Freeman, her poor black chauffeur, and declares touchingly, "You're my best friend, Hoke."
At times, scene and action hammer home the message of interracial sameness; mass audiences see individuals of different colors behaving identically, sometimes looking alike, almost invariably discovering, through one-on-one encounter, that they need or delight in, or love, each other.
Danny Glover sits on the toilet in "Lethal Weapon," trousers around ankles, unaware of a bomb ticking below him; Danny's white buddy, Mel Gibson, breezily at home in Danny's house, saves his life by sweeping him from the throne to the tub. Minor and major films show well-off white grown-ups unhesitatingly helping young blacks. In "Dangerous Minds," Michelle Pfeiffer selflessly teaches black youngsters, using Bob Dylan songs to hook them on poetry. "Philadelphia" plumbs the friendship of two lawyers -- white, AIDS-afflicted Tom Hanks and black, spiky Denzel Washington. (Joanne Woodward as Hanks's mother underlines the black-white sameness theme: "I didn't raise my children," she says angrily, "to ride in the back of the bus.")
A monograph on the history of race-sameness themes in movies would reach back to breakthrough works like "The Defiant Ones," "Brian's Song" "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" and "Hurry Sundown." A hint of the quantity of relevant "product" can be gleaned from an almost random list of recent films -- television and junk action movies mingling with more pretentious work -- that treat friendship themes for part or the whole of their length. They range from "The Shawshank Redemption" to "Fried Green Tomatoes," from "Sister Act" to "Platoon," from "Die Hard With a Vengeance" to "Angels in the Outfield," from "Clockers' to "Clueless" to "Smoke" to "Money Train"
Nor is it the case that black-white sameness is a staple only of the more mindless entertainment and sales pitches. Admittedly the most vulgar dramatizations of the theme turn up on dirty-talk shows: Rolonda, Ricki and their peers encouraging utterly undifferentiated whites and blacks to wallow in aberrationist muck. And it's true, too, that the grubby opportunism of the theme is least well-disguised in the Wal-Mart fliers that jam rural and suburban mailboxes, pairing, on every page, black and white models who glow in each other's company.
But friendship and sameness themes actually respect no class or "intellectual" border, appearing often in the work of PBS essayists and longtime liberal heroes. Studs Terkel opens his book "Race" by recommending a program of "affirmative civility," meaning, efforts by whites to reach out with genial evening greetings when passing blacks on city sidewalks. Discussing his son's warm friendships with blacks, Roger Rosenblatt declares, "Our proper hearts tell the truth, which is that we are all in the same boat, rich and poor, black and white."
The most intricate exploration of friendship orthodoxy that I've seen occurs at the highest level of sitcom sophistication, "The Larry Sanders Show." The show regularly presents a black-white relationship -- between Larry (Garry Shandling) and Beverly (Penny Johnson), his black assistant -- that's grainy, unsentimental and relatively free of the maudlin squishiness endemic in pop interracial narratives. In one segment it even dared to confront precisely the question that most black-white friendship tales labor to bury: do race problems require structural solutions, or can they be worked out through one-on-one personal relations?
This affirmative-action segment of "The Larry Sanders Show" details the rupture and later repair of the relationship between Larry and Beverly. The cause of the rupture is a dispute about hiring. Beverly, convinced that the show's production staff and guest lists are "too white," campaigns to force Larry to hire her cousin, Clyde, as propman. She argues her case in structural terms: Clyde lacks experience, but for him as for other blacks, inexperience is a result of racist exclusion. How can he or any black get and keep a decent job if denied a chance to learn?
Narcissistic, whim-ridden, detached from everything but his own ego, the star is unmoved. He offhandedly mouths the usual slogans about hiring on a personal basis, in accordance with qualifications -- and tells Beverly to lace his shoes. Infuriated, taunted by Clyde as Larry's slave, Beverly quits, whereupon Larry capitulates not long after and hires Clyde. The reason, of course, isn't that he has seen the affirmative-action light but that he can't survive without the personal service Beverly has hitherto uncomplainingly and inventively rendered.
Now comes reversal. Back on the job, Beverly discovers that cousin Clyde, the affirmative-action propman, is a drag. He talks too much, has no feeling for the rhythms of other people's work, runs on about the techniques of transforming Barbie dolls into miniature dinosaurs when Beverly's in the midst of errands and telephoning.
What's happening, subtly but devastatingly, is that this black woman campaigning for affirmative action is being swiftly drawn to the side of the anti-affirmative-action party. She has fought her boss hard, meaning to push him out of self-absorption into a world of serious issues and conflicts. But before the end of the show, she gives up. She admits, that is, that Larry Sanders is right, that race relations, like everything else, are personal, matters of individual likes and dislikes.
Wit, knowingness and skepticism all figure in the episode. Viewers are allowed to hear arguments for structural remedies and against the claim that race problems are purely personal. But the weight of the show is, finally, straight Doogie Howser; we learn that those arguments are totally wrong. Beverly, tormented: "Is there any way we can get rid of Clyde?" Larry, grinning in satisfaction (live with it, hon; you got what you wanted): "No."
Black and white together -- against blacks. Roll promo.
Why has white America bought so enthusiastically into race-friendship, race-sameness orthodoxy? The problem is complex; spelling out possibly adequate answers has taken this writer an entire book, "The Trouble With Friendship."
THE COUNTRY IS WEDDED TO an egalitarian, individualistic, can-do, making-it mythology, the American Dream, that's meant to leave nobody out. The country is keen on historical romance, impatient with historical fact, weak on the realities that uniquely characterize the African-American past. Pop versions of history ("Roots," Ken Burns's "Civil War," movies like "Mississippi Burning") are therefore at liberty either to delete the experience of separateness altogether or to transform slavery and the civil rights movement into periods of happy black-white collaboration.
Neoconservatives are troublingly eager to exaggerate the size and rate of expansion of "the new black middle class," and liberals are astonishingly tolerant of politically calculated exploitation of friendship dogmas. President Clinton is among those who have found that trumpeting black-white amity as a "solution" is a convenient and economical way of dramatizing one's "concern"; it wins praise for sensitivity. No need to confront the hard truth that a caste society attempting erratically to dismantle its caste structures can't expect to get the job done without making commitments to developmental assistance on an order this country has never imagined.
Beyond these explanations of white receptiveness to sameness-and-sympathy dogma stands the complicating truth that friendship ideas do, after all, represent a step forward from yesterday's race-viciousness. Combined with an intelligent address to the problems of non-middle-class blacks, the friendship faith could move us toward a positive interracial future. Some sameness themes radiate real moral energy and carry an inspiring, even lyric charge. You can hear the promise ring out in black-white duets -- Aretha Franklin and George Michael, or Conway Twitty and Brook Benton sharing choruses of "A Rainy Night in Georgia" -- or in the Garth Brooks song about learning to ignore "the color of skin" and looking for "the beauty within."
But if there's some decency as well as vast nonsense in the ideology of sameness from which, for a week or two last fall, white America seemed almost to awaken, there's also fearful obliviousness. What whites need to do is stop being amazed at their own obliviousness and start being repelled by it -- and by the opinion engineers whose difference-abolishing pap still plays cover-up with cruel, hope-erasing race matters as they are.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 7 about television's and films' portrayal of racial relationships misidentified the performer who sang a duet of "A Rainy Night in Georgia" with Conway Twitty on "Rhythm, Country and Blues," a 1994 PBS special. He was Sam Moore, not Brook Benton. Mr. Benton, who recorded the song in 1970 and made it a hit, died in 1988. The article and a caption also misstated the role played by Julius Carry 3d on "Murphy Brown." As Mitchell Baldwin, he played a television network executive, not a station manager.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Who's Who on Page One
1. Katie Couric and Bryant Gumbel of the "Today" show.
2. Dorien Wilson and Brian Benben in "Dream On."
3. Dixie Carter (left), Delta Burke, Jean Smart, Meshach Taylor and Annie Potts of "Designing Women."
4. Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta in "Pulp Fiction."
5. On "The Larry Sanders" show, Garry Shandling and Penny Johnson explore the intricacies of race.
6. Susan Ruttan, left, and Sheila Kelly with Blair Underwood, who loved a white woman in "L.A. Law."
7. Neil Patrick Harris and Markus Redmond on "Doogie Howser, M.D."
8. Interracial palship on "The Flintstone Kids."
(NBC ("Today"); Janet Van Ham/HBO ("Dream On"); Photofest ("Designing Women"); Linda R. Chen/Miramax ("Pulp Fiction"); Larry Watson/HBO ("The Larry Sanders Show"); Photofest ("L.A. Law"); Bonnie Schiffman/ABC ("Doogie Howser"); Photofest ("Flintstone Kids.")) (pg. 1)
'Seinfeld' George (Jason Alexander, left) struggles to show his black boss (Tom Wright) that he's capable of winning and keeping a black friend. (Joey Del Valle/NBC); 'Murphy Brown' Initially wary, Murphy (Candice Bergen), comes to admire Mitchell Baldwin (Julius Carry III), the new station manager. (Warner) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS; TELEVISION; CULTURE CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ACQUITTAL (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: DEMOTT, BENJAMIN KATIE COURIC (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996



176 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 25; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 2116 words

HEADLINE: TEACHING TEACHERS;
Getting Minority Students Turned On to Teaching

BYLINE: By MICHELE N-K COLLISION; Michele N-K Collison is a freelance writer who lives in Washington.

 BODY:
Jessica Benitez Elliott almost didn't become a teacher. All her life she had heard the adage, "Those who can, do. Those who can't, teach." So Ms. Elliott pursued, albeit miserably, a career as a psychologist. Then in 1994, while completing her master's in psychology at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, she spotted a flier offering paid teaching internships for minority students.
 That's how Ms. Elliott's career took a detour and why, on a Friday afternoon, she was trasforming a second grade classroom at the private Park School of Baltimore into a bazaar of Hispanic culture. Hispanic art and storybooks were diplayed along with magazines featuring Hispanic productsandmodels. Students tasted mango nectar and galleta cookies (similar to shortbread), popular in Puerto Rico, where Ms. Elliott grew up.
 "These children will probably be future leaders," she said. "And they have to realize today's economy is a global economy, and it's important not to be ignorant about other people's culture."
 Ms. Elliott, 24, is one of 135 minority interns teaching in 110 independent and 25 public schools this year as part of the Multicultural Alliance, an organization that works to promote teaching as a career to minority students at the undergraduate and graduate levels.
 In 1990, minority children made up 31 percent of the nation's public school students; that number is projected to increase to 35.8 percent by the end of the century. Meanwhile, only 13 percent (including 7 percent African-American and 4 percent Hispanic) of the 2.5 million public school teachers are minorities, according to the Washington-based American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education. Minority students make up 22 percent of the nation's 4.8 million students in both parochial and independent schools, reports the United States Department of Education. About 8 percent of the 340,000 private school teachers are minorities (including 3 percentAfrican-American and 3 percent Hispanic).
 "There really is a national crisis," said Kevin Franklin, a director of the Urban Institute at San Franscisco State University and creator of the Multicultural Alliance. "There just aren't enough students of color becoming teachers at a time when we need them most."
 Although the Alliance's interns can get their teaching experience at public or independent schools, it is the independent schools that are likely to be the greatest future users of the program, said Kathleen Harris, the Alliance's mid-Atlantic director.
 "Independent schools have the money to hire the teachers, provide professional development," she said.
 Mr. Franklin began the Multicultural Alliance in 1990 after administrators at Bay Area independent shcools complained to him about unable to find minority teachers.
 His premise was simple: lure more minority students into teaching by providing internships at an attractive salary with plenty of professional support from experienced teachers and the Multicultural Alliance's partner schools and universities. He believes his interns become hooked once they step into the classroom and realize the influence they can have on the lives of their students. And he wants to ensure that this influence comes from the best teachers.
 Mary Dillworth, senior director for research at the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, echoed this sentiment, "The role model argument is not an effective argument" for bringing more teachers of color into schools. "While it is fine to talk about role models, we need qualified role models," she said.
 Although some industry observers believe that many minority communities once considered teaching a desirable profession, it haslost status over time.
"Students have had an increase in options," said Joseph Aguerrebere, a program officer at the Ford Foundation, who heads the agency's Minority Teacher Initiative. Also, he said, many states have changed the standards for teaching licenses and many other more lucrative careers have begun to compete for the same students.
 Ms. Elliott remembers her own days of scoffing at teaching.
 We thought those were the people who couldn't make it in the real world,"she said.
 So far, 95 percent of the Multicultural Alliace's 222 graduates have gone on to become teachers or administrators in public schools or universities: 30 percent in public schools, 70 percent in private schools. Mr. Franklin said only two students a year on average who begin a teaching internship do not complete the program. From the organization's base in California, the Alliance has quickly expanded into the Midwest, South and Northeast. And Mr. Franklin recently hired a director to coordinateinternships in New England.
 The Alliance interns must be at least college juniors in good academic standing. Alliance staff members and representatives at schools interview prospective interns. Once they are hired, the interns are paid a minimum of $16,500 by an Alliance partner school for full-time work, and they earn an academic scholarship of at least $1,000 each year. Interns who teach part-time are paid a minimum of $10,000. Many of the Alliance's partner institutions, like Brown University in Providence, R.I., and Chapman College in Orange, Calif., offer full or partial scholarships to allow interns to earn their master's degrees in education or teacher certifications.
Roselyn Reyes, also an Alliance intern, is teaching in a Los Angeles public school as part of the district's alternative certification program. As a full-time teacher at Carpenter Avenue Elementary School, she receives a full teacher's salary and benefits while attending classes provided by the district to earn her teacher's certificate free of charge.
"It's a great, great deal," Ms. Reyes said.
After a week of orientation in August, during which students cover such topics as lesson planning and classroom management, each student is paired with a teacher. That teacher serves as a mentor, while the intern helps out in his or her classroom throughout the year. At the beginning of the school year, most interns spend time learning different teaching styles by observing veteran teachers. Other interns, particularly those with foreign language skills, may begin teaching right away.
By the end of the year, the interns take on more teaching duties. The interns also attend professional development seminars on topics like evaluating lesson plans and conducting parent-teacher conferences.
So far, the private schools in which the Alliance has placed interns belong to the National Association of Independent Schools. Of the 415,000 students attending those schools, 16 percent are minorities.
The average starting salary for a teacher at a school belonging to the National Association of Independent Schools is $21,000.
"Independent schools are based on networks, which, for a long time, minorities weren't part of," said Karan Merry, head of the Chestnut Hill School, a private elementary school in Chestnut Hill, Mass. Ms. Merry is one of the few African-Americans to head a predominantly white independent school. "But as more people of color become teachers," she added, "they can become administrators, then heads of schools and members of the board. It's a beginning, but it has the potential to transform our schools."
David Jackson, headmaster of the Park School of Baltimore, said, "Children will fall back on stereotypes in the absence of real people." Park has 10 minority teachers and administrators -- including Ms. Elliott and another Alliance intern -- out of a total staff of 98. Of Park's 818 students, 95 are minorities.
The Alliance's efforts have brought mostly praise. Indeed, many educators credit Mr. Franklin, with his engaging manner and bulging Rolodex, with the program's success. He travels to preach nationwide about the importance of a diverse teaching force and has attracted support from corporations and foundations like Philip Morris; Oracle, a software corporation, and the W. K. Kellogg Foundation.
"The program is a good way to immerse students in a school," said Ted Sizer, chairman of the Coalition for Essential Schools, whohas two Alliance interns as teaching assistants at Brown University. "They're not stumbling around taking theoretical courses in a university. They are with real kids in a classroom. The courses make sense when the students are with real kids."
Randolph Carter, director of
the office of diversity and multicultural services at the National Association of Independent Schools, cautioned that "it isn't adequate for schools to rely only on the strategy of hiring entry-level people." Public and private schools, he said, need innovative programs to attract more seasoned minority teachers to their classrooms.
"We need teachers who are master teachers, who can transform the curriculum and the way we teach our children," he said.
"An intern can't go to a headmaster and say, 'these programs aren't working,' " he added. "But a seasoned teacher can go to that same headmaster and say, 'I've been teaching for 13 years and I think we should change this program or incorporate these programs in our curriculum.' "
Interns, however, say that the opportunity to combine theory and practical experience has made teaching more palatable.
"You can really find out what you want to do," said Kimberly Burt, 24, who teaches kindergarten and first grade at Sidwell Friends School, the private school that Chelsea Clinton attends in Washington.
Ms. Burt, who is studying for her master's degree in early childhood education at Howard University, said now she feels that her best career choices will be in private schools. seemed redundant."Here you can do what you're supposed to do -- teach."
Spenser Tolliver, 25, a Morehouse College graduate, turned down a prestigious White House fellowship to become an Alliance intern. Today Mr. Tolliver is teaching history as an intern at the Branson School, a private school in Ross, Calif. In doing so, he said, he feels he will be able "to educate, to break down barriers and debunk myths."
Yet as much as they value their teaching experiences, some interns wonder if they really should be teaching in independent schools, where there are relatively few minority children.
"I questioned whether I was going to have an impact on other students," said Alton Nelson, 28, an Alliance graduate who also teaches history at the Branson School. "I feel the kids of color at independent schools need our presence. I'm the first black male teacher the school ever had. I changed the complexion of the school."
Chris Chatmon is an intern who felt compelled to return to his own community.
After earning his master's degree in education from Brown University, Mr. Chatmon began teaching at Thurgood Marshall Academic High School, a new predominantly black and Hispanic public school in San Francisco.
"There's an incredible need for black male teachers," Mr. Chatmon said. "This community brought me up and gave me what I needed. It was time for me to give some of that back."
Their teaching experiences aren't perfect, particularly at independent schools, the interns said. Sometimes it is difficult being one of a few minority teachers. In addition, they tend to serve as unofficial counselors to all the minority students in their schools.And, many said, it can be wearing to play the "resident multicultural expert."
But for many, the benefits outweigh the negatives.
"It's not like it's the 'in vogue' thing to do this year," said Angela McFarland, who helps teach kindergarten at the private Lexington School in Kentucky. "I don't think it's just lip service when they say diversity is important. The staff sits down and talks to me. They talk about things they want to integrate into the curriculum."
Tanya Patton, a student at Harris Stowe State College in St. Louis, is teaching at the independent Community School there. She points out that she has been able to spend time discussing how to teach students with different learning styles.
At the Park School, if Ms. Elliott needed any evidence that her cultural lessons were paying off, she got it on a field trip this fall. The class was visiting the Baltimore Museum of Art to see a Matisse exhibit. Suddenly, one of Ms. Elliott's students came charging through the museum, followed by guards who couldn't understand why he was making such a ruckus.
"Ms. Elliott! Ms. Elliott!" he yelled. "I saw a painting by that P. guy," he said, referring to Picasso. "There are Hispanic people in this museum. I remember it from the art book I saw last week."
Ms. Elliott smiles at the memory and said, "I really think they're getting it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jessica Benitez Elliott, 24, shares her Hispanic heritagewith her second graders at the private Park School of Baltimore. "It's important," she says for these pupils "not to be ignorant aboutother people's culture." (Marty Katz for The New York Times) (pg. 25); Kevin Franklin, founder of the Multicultural Alliance: The lack of minority teachers "is a national crisis." (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MULTICULTURAL ALLIANCE (ORGN) BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (50%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MULTICULTURAL ALLIANCE (ORGN) JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WAGES AND SALARIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RELIGION (67%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); 

PERSON: COLLISON, MICHELLE N-K JESSICA BENITEZ ELLIOTT (88%); KEVIN FRANKLIN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



177 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 51; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: QUIZ

BYLINE: By LINDA AMSTER 

 BODY:
After a century, many of the events of 1896 still influence us, as do people who were born or died that year. How many of the following can you identify?
 
1. An Italian inventor who failed the entrance exam at the University of Bologna received a British patent for his wireless telegraph. Who was he?
 
2. Strike up the band in celebration of two famous marches that made their debut -- one written in Dixieland style, the other a patriotic work that includes a prominent piccolo part. Name these marches.
 
3.At the Democratic National Convention, a famous orator's fierty speech in favor of silver-backed currency won him the party's Presidential nomination. (He lost the general election to William McKinley.) Who was he and by what name is his famous speech known?
 
4. The 45th state was admitted to the Union -- after it renounced polygamy. What state is it?
 
5. The public got its first taste of two new treats that we still enjoy: One was Cracker Jacks, the other a chewy candy introduced by Leo Hirschfield, who used the nickname of his daughter, Clara to label the confection. What was Clara's nickname?
 
6. George Washington Carver (below) joined the faculty of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. Best known for boosting the South's economy with peanut cultivation, he left another agricultural legacy: a planting system still used by farmers today to retard soil depletion and control pests. What is the method called?
 
7. Fortune seekers swarmed to northwestern Canada, where three prospectors had discovered gold at the juncture of Bonanza Creek and a river that gave the "gold-rush" its name. What river is it?
 
8. After 1,500 years, the Olympic Games were reborn. What city was host to the first modern Olympics?
 
9. In Plessy v. Ferguson, the Supreme Court upheld a Louisiana law that required black passengers to travel separately from whites. The case established the famous "separate but equal" doctrine that dominated the civil rights arena for the following half-century. What was the 1954 Supreme Court case that finally overturned this doctrine?
 
10. Nathan Birnbaum, who was born on Jan. 20, later became famous as a wisecracking half of a comedy team. What is his stage name?
 
11. A blues and jazz singer, born on Oct. 31, won the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award in 1950 for her performance in a Carson McCullers play about coming of age in the American South. Who was she?
 
12. Edison (right) had yet another bright idea -- inventing a bulb that emits a light whiter than incandescent variety. What type of bulb is it?
 
13. A Baseball Hall of Famer (left) was born on April 27. He still holds the record for highest batting average in a single season, a record he achieved in 1924. Who was he and what was his average?
 
14. A Puccini opera (below) had its premiere in Turin -- a tale of doomed love among impoverished young artists in 19th century Paris. Which is it?
 
15. William Ramsey discovered a chemical element -- a very light gas used to keep airships aloft. What is it?
 
16. The author of an antislavery novel -- published in serialized form in 1851 -- died. Who was she and what is the novel?
 
17. The College of New Jersey, founded 50 years earlier, was renamed after the town of its location. What town is it?
 
18. The Tabulating Machine Company was founded to manufacture the punched-card devices that ushered in modern data-processing. It eventually merged to form another company, later bought by Thomas J. Watson. By what name is that company known today?
 
Quiz Answers
 
1. Guglielmo Marconi.
 
2. "When the Saints Go Marching In," music by James M. Black and lyrics by Katherine E. Purvis; "The Stars and Stripes Forever," by John Philip Sousa.
 
3. William Jennings Bryan; "Cross of Gold."
 
4. Utah.
 
5. Tootsie.
 
6. Crop rotation.
 
7. The Klondike.
 
8. Athens.
 
9. Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka.
 
10. George Burns.
 
11. Ethel Waters, who appeared in "The Member of the Wedding."
 
12. Fluorescent.
 
13. Rogers Hornsby; .424.
 
14. La Boheme.
 
15. Helium.
 
16. Harriet Beecher Stowe; "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
 
17. Princeton.
 
18. International Business Machines Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EIGHTEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SIX PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); POLYGAMY (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); BASEBALL (67%); PEANUT FARMING (65%); OLYMPICS (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (61%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (55%); 

PERSON: AMSTER, LINDA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



178 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 26; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: TEACHING TEACHERS;
Teach for America: Learning the Hard Way

BYLINE: By RACHEL SHTEIR; Rachel Shteir is a freelance writer based in New York

 BODY:
Five years after Teach for America began sending recent college graduates to some of the poorest urban and rural schools, the organization finds itself still trying to handle its growing pains with grace.
 Teach for America, which sprang from the 1989 senior thesis that its founder, Wendy Kopp, wrote at Princeton University, has placed 3,000 teachers and gained both praise and strong criticism for its methods. Every year, after training 500 recruits -- many of them graduates of Ivy League colleges -- for five weeks, the program assigns them to two-year teaching posts in areas as varied as New York City, the Mississippi Delta and South Central Los Angeles.
 
Patterned after the Peace Corps, Teach for America has been hard hit by what its director of development, Richard Barth, calls a "belt-tightening crisis." In 1995 the recruiting staff was slashed from seven to two. (Overall, the organization employs about 80 people.) To maintain one of the program's essential components -- the on-site mentors who help new recruits get adjusted to teaching -- Teach for America has begun to seek out partnerships with local universities and community colleges, as well as to rely more heavily on alumni to contribute time and expertise.
 "We're stepping back from trying to take on all to the responsibility ourselves," explained Ms. Kopp, 28, as she sat in her organization's headquarters in New York City's financial district.
 In addition, Teach for America is struggling to rebut its critics.
 In May, responding to several recent studies by educational groups criticizing its teacher training program. Teach for America released a report it had commissioned. According to the report, the majority of superintendents are happy with the teachers' work. "In some areas we come out looking good," Ms. Kopp said.
 Sharon Mitchell, the placement coordinator in the Unified School District of Oakland, Calif., said: "They're climate changers. They think out of the box."
 Teach for America is part of a larger trend that has emerged since the early 1980's, when states began to offer alternative licensing or certification programs for teachers. Such programs allow liberal arts graduates and others without education degrees to work as teachers in areas where there are teacher shortages. Most often these schools are found in poor districts. According to data collected by the National Center for Education Information in Washington, 40 states now offer such programs, up from 33 in 1990.
 "If the school district provides adequate mentoring and support," said Pat Dingsdale, the education committee chairwoman for the National Parent-Teacher Association, in Chicago, "any alternate certification program can work."
 Yet many of Teach for America's critics argue that such support is not forthcoming. In 1991 Melissa McDonald graduated from Tufts University with a degree in American history. She then spent a turbulent nine weeks in a New Orleans school she described as "a trash can" before reluctantly leaving Teach for America. She is now a manager at the Nature Company in Boston.
 "I had 10-year-olds who had failed second grade three times," said Ms. McDonald. She blames Teach for America for her quick departure because it placed her in the school and failed to give her support.
 "The corps members who finished their two-year commitments had strong mentors -- and their schools wanted them there," she said.
 In New York City, firs-year Teach for America teachers make about $28,000, about $4,000 less than first-year teachers with master's degrees. During their two-year commitment, program participants have the option of working toward their permanent licenses.
 Supporters of Teach for America say that over the last five years the program has filled a gap in recruiting hard-to-find bilingual, special education and math and science teachers. According to the organization's statistics, the number of its teachers who finish the two-year commitment has risen from 70 percent in 1990 to 85 percent in 1993. The statistics also indicate that the organization does better than the education profession overall in recruiting minorities, who now make up 46 percent of all corps members. This figure includes 24 percent African-Americans, 8 percent Hispanics and 8 percent Asians. According to figures from the National Library of Education, 86.5 percent of all teachers nationwide are white and 7 percent are African-American, 4 percent Hispanic and 1 percent Asian.
 According to Teach for America statistics on the first group of program teachers, who finished in 1992, some 55 percent are still teaching, although 72 percent remain in education. By contrast, only 7 percent of teachers with master's degrees nationwide have dropped out of teaching after three years.
Teach for America, however, says that in the areas where its teachers are employed, the overall turnover rate tends to be much higher, up to 50 percent. And Ms. Kopp says as much as training teachers, the program seeks to create leaders.
"I'd like people to someday talk about T.F.A. the way they talk about the Rhodes scholarship," she said.
In the summer of 1993, President Clinton approved Teach for America as part of Americorps, his national service initiative. The program now receives about 21 percent of its $5.2 million budget from Americorps, which also pays off participants' undergraduate loans and offers small grants for future education. The majority of Teach for America's money, however, still comes from corporations and individuals -- among them are the Lilly Endowment Corporation and Philip Morris.
Yet because of Teach for America's budget cutting, some of its most ambitious initiatives are being dropped, like the costly and time-consuming efforts to get states to accredit its five-week summer training program as an alternative route to teacher certification.
And two education divisions of Teach for America have left to become nonprofit companies. The two divisions are Teach, which focuses on recruiting people in other professions to become teachers, and The Learning Project, which helped design the Houston Summer Institute where Teach for America teachers are trained.
In addition, many educators in traditional graduate teacher- training programs remain skeptical about Teach for America's long-term impact.
"What Teach for America is doing would be more productive if they recruited for the long term instead of as a pit stop," said Linda Darling Hammond, a professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University in New York. By putting teachers into the neediest schools, she said, the program is cheating a generation of "high risk" children.
Professor Darling Hammond also accused the program of taking jobs away from teachers who are more qualified.
"Districts can only legally hire us if they have a shortage," Wendy Kopp responded.
But last year in Seattle, which has no teacher shortage, the Board of Education voted to hire 17 Teach for America teachers, even though Washington state certifies 2,500 teachers every year. Of these, half remain unemployed after receiving certification. "The vote was controversial," said Ted Andrews, the state's director of professional education and certification.
Most teacher educators critical of Teach for America say they do not oppose alternative certification as such, but what they characterize as the program'sslapdash approach to training.
"The summer institute is a series of one-hour workshops with no curriculum," said Robert Roth, a professor of education at the State University of California at Long Beach, who evaluated Teach for America's summer training institute in Houston for several states in 1993. "The students could choose anything they wanted in any order," he said. "In five weeks you cannot train teachers to step into the classroom. We have difficulty doing that in four years."
Teach for America, however, said the training institute's recruits teach at a summer enrichment program for students in Houston's public elementary schools. In the afternoons and evenings, according to program outlines, the trainees attend curriculum workshops. Veteran teachers and experienced corps members are asked to evaluate the performance of the new recruits on a daily basis.
"It was like educational boot camp," said Catherine Schoeffler, who got a sociology degree at the University of Southwestern Louisiana before teaching at a tiny elementary school in Ruleville, Miss.
Pam Briskman, a Teach for America recruit from Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif., said, "I really don't think that anything can prepare you for the first day of class."
Ms. Briskman, who has taught at Bret Harte Middle School in Oakland, Calif., for three years, said she feels that the Teach for America approach is at least as effective as the traditional teacher-training education programs from which her colleagues graduated.
In New York, at P.S. 28 on West 155th Street in Harlem, Gina Laporta, an English major who graduated from Boston College in 1994, said her training was adequate, but her first year of teaching was still an enormous struggle.
"All of a sudden I was going to be responsible for 20 children who wanted to be educated."
For several months she was in shock, she said, overwhelmed by a classroom where many of the students had emotional problems for which she had no training.
She was assigned two mentors -- one from Teach for America and the other a veteran teacher at the school. But even now, Ms. Laporta does not know if she will stay a third year. "I change my mind every day," she said.
David Gunderson had a different experience.
After graduating from Yale University in 1989 with a major in political science, he wanted to teach before medical school.
But because he didn't want to spend a year getting a degree in education, he found that Teach for America presented an ideal opportunity. Mr. Gundersonspent four years teaching life science at Compton High in South Central Los Angeles.
"It's the greatest education you'll ever have," he said.
Now Mr. Gunderson intends to go back to medical school and to earn a master's degree in public health.
"In 10 years, I'd like to be living in a rural area where I can practice medicine half the time and teach the other half," he said.
For Seth Kugel, who finished his two-year stint in the South Bronx in New York last year, academic critics of Teach for America miss the point.
Mr. Kugel, who is now a first-year student at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, said: "If you're a T.F.A. teacher, you don't have to worry about staying, about pension, about red tape, about getting the ideal job in the ideal school -- you don't have to worry about getting out of the South Bronx. You don't have to learn the system. If you're in T.F.A., you can just teach."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wendy Kopp's Teach for America has put 3,000 recent college graduates into poor schools. (Andrew Lichtenstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TEACH FOR AMERICA; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PEACE CORPS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEACH FOR AMERICA; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PEACE CORPS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; URBAN AREAS; RURAL AREAS TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RURAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); TRENDS (77%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); HISTORY (64%); 

PERSON: SHTEIR, RACHEL; KOPP, WENDY WENDY KOPP (73%); RICHARD BARTH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



179 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 8; Column 5; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: BLACKBOARD;
Stanford Gets Street Smart

BYLINE: By DEBORAH STEAD 

 BODY:
The subject was urban planning, and the professors -- for a day, anyway -- were six inner-city middle school students who recently taught a class at Stanford University.
 The three boys and three girls from San Francisco's Noth Mission neighborhood had plenty to teach the Stanford students enrolled in Prof. Milbrey McLaughlin's fall semester course on Urban Youth and Their Institutions. Last summer, the yougsters conducted a neighborhood assesment -- collecting data and making a detailed map -- and successfully lobbied the city for a new park. They did the work through a program run by St. John's Educational Thresholds, a community youth center. 
 "They did an absolutely fabulous job of mapping the neighborhood," said Professor McLaughlin, who asked the mapping team to teach a segment on neighborbood assessment in Novemberafter hearing about their work. "They just blew mystudents away."
 That didn't surprise Kyle Fiore, the youth center's director, who said the goal is "to have people realize that kids are not a problem to be solved but people who are incredibly wise about what they need."
 The young urban planners are already booked for a February lecture to be delivered to city youth workers. And Professor McLaughlin, an expert on city youth and the author of the book "Urban Sanctuaries," said that "if I teach the course again, I'll absolutely use them." D.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY; ST JOHN'S EDUCATION THRESHOLDS (ORGN) STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY; ST JOHN'S EDUCATION THRESHOLDS (ORGN) STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITY LIFE (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: STEAD, DEBORAH MILBREY MCLAUGHLIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



180 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 22; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 2797 words

HEADLINE: TEACHING TEACHERS;
Is Experience The Best Teacher?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
Three years ago, when Cynthia Onore created a master's program at the New School for Social Research in Greenwich Village to train teachers for experimental schools, she repeatedly heard the same warning.
 "They'd say, 'Your students will never get jobs; they're the lunatic-fringe wacko people no one wants except at the most experimental schools,"' said Ms. Onore, the New School's director of teacher education. "But in fact we've had an incredible placement record, and the reason is that you call any principal anywhere and say, 'Are you trying to restructure your school?' and they all say, 'Yeah.' 
 "Everyone wants to change their schools and develop new ones, but teacher education is still training teachers for the old ones."
 Few education programs are like Ms. Onore's, which was built from scratch and has 41 students. But the calls for sweeping innovation in schools are being matched by similar rumblings in teacher training. At schools of education, which have often been criticized for providing irrelevant, textbook learning that fails to prepare teachers for the real world, alomost everything about how teachers are taught is being questioned or rethought.
 Whether the clamor is producing real change is open to question. But it has provoked wide-ranging debate on a number of issues, from how many years are enough to train teachers to whether education schools should be sidestepped altogether in favor of alternative training paths like Teach for America.
 Among the issues being debated are these:
 --Diveristy. There are widespread concerns about how to prepare an overwhelmingly white teaching corps for an increasingly minority student population, and how to recruit more members of minorities to the profession.
 --Curriculum. Educators are debating how college students' time should be divided among taking the subjects they plan to teach, learning about teaching, and being a student teacher. They also debate whether it makes sense to add a fifth year to the curriculum devoted almost solely to teaching.
 --Collaboration. There is broad support for creating partnerhsips between education schools and public schools to build so-called professional development schools, which would function the way teaching hospitals do for doctors. Only a few such schools are operating.
 --Technology. Many agree that teachers need to be better prepared to adapt to new technologies, particularly computers, but barriers -- in costs and expertise -- remain.
 What links all the issues is a problem with no easy solution: how to bridge the chasm between elementary and secondary schools that distrust university schools of education and universities that generally look down upon their own education schools as insufficiently rigorous trade schools.
 "The first and saddest thing to know about teacher education," said Michael Timpane, vice president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching in Princeton, N.J., "is that it has to always face in two directions, toward the profession it is trying to assist and produce teachers for, and toward the rest of the university in which it resides. And the particular problem of teacher education is that historically it has been held in low regard by both of them."
 Teacher training is no abstract issue at a time when the student population and thus the need for teachers is on the verge of a dramatic increase. Enrollment in elementary and secondary schools is projected to rise to 56 million in 2004, from 47 million in 1991, producing more than a million new teaching jobs, according to a recent study by the American Council on Education.
 The first challenge, many say, is to address the growing mismatch between the background of teachers and the sutdents they will be teaching.
 Studies show that the typical teacher is a white, 40-year-old married mother to two children. The students in teacher-training programs are also white, female and middle-class. One recent study found that 76 percent are female and 91 percent are white, with most coming from suburban or rural backgrounds. Nearly half speak only English.
 On the other hand, about a third of the nation's school-age children belong to minority groups, and in most of the nation's urban centers the public schools are either largely or overwhelmingly minority. The minority percentage is expected to increase steadily over time.
 "I am convinced that there are large numbers of teachers who drop out of teaching after three years, not because they are incapable of teaching these children, but beause they never had the training or support in order to do it," said Jacqueline Jordan Irvine, and education professor at Emory University in Atlanta.
 In fact, a recent pool of 1,000 public school teachers by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company found that less than half of the inner-city and other urban teachers said they were very satisfied with their careers.
 Using a grant from the United States Department of Education, Ms. Irvine has put together a program now being implemented among teachers in the Atlanta area in which they spend time not just in schools, but in homes, churches, community centers and playgrounds of inner-city neighborhoods. The goal is to educate teachers in diverse ways about the children they teach, the experiences they have and the way they learn. Such a program, Ms. Irvine said, would be an integral part of teacher education.
 But just increasing the ethnic diversity of the teaching pool, Ms. Irvine said, is not necessarily the solution. Middle-class black or Hispanic teachers can be as ill-prepared for inncer-city classrooms as middle-class whites, she said, and many of them will be entering diverse classrooms, too.
 But experts still see a critical need for increasing the pool of minority teachers. It is estimated that 85 percent of teachers are white women. Yet recruiting more minority teachers is a problem that has been compounded as other, more lucrative opportunities have opened to those who might have become teachers in the past. Although teachers' salaries rose an average of 2.7 percent during 1994-95, it was a rate just below that of inflation, which was 2.8 percent. The average teaching salary is $36,744, according to the American Federation of Teachers.
 The concern over minority hiring has led to the creation of some programs specifically designed to recruit minority teachers. Among them is the Multicultural Alliance, based in San Francisco.
 Still, even in states with the most minority teachers the gap between their numbers and those of minority students is enormous. In California, 21 percent of public school teachers belong to minority groups, compared with 53 percent of public school students. In Texas the figures are 19 percent and 48 percent, respectively; in New York, 10 percent and 34 percent.
 "This is a real time bomb," said Mr. Timpane at Carnegie. "Part of the issue is diversity training, but I think a more important issue is making the teaching force diverse, and that's a much, much tougher job."
 The concern is not just about African-Americans, who are most often cited. People of Asian or Pacific island descent make up just 1 percent of all teachers and about 1 percent of education students at a time when they are the largest ethnic group on some prestigious campuses like the University of California at Berkeley, and despite a 22 percent increase in their college enrollment rates between 1989 and 1991.
 Surveys show that low pay, lack of recruitment and a perception of teaching as insufficiently intellectual are among the reasons for their small numbers.
 Another issue regarding teacher training that is increasingly being raised is how to strike the balance between classroom learning in schools of education and actual experience in real schools.
 The issue is not new, but the changes in schools -- the multiple cultures, more pressing social needs and often more difficult students -- have made it particularly pressing.
 Traditionally, education majors have done their student teaching, usually for a semester, only at the end of their undergraduate training. The rest of their time has usually been split fairly evenly between education courses and courses in academic subject matter.
 But current education school students and recent graduates almost unanimously say that their most valuable experience was their time in the schools.
 And increasingly, education schools are moving to expand that part of their program.
 "You learn by doing," said Nicole Hart, a 25-year-old, second-year teacher at a racially diverse suburban Atlanta school district. She graduated from Emory's 15-month master's program and then went through Ms. Irvine's program. What benefited her most, she said, "was being in schools and communities and being in classes with students who were also teachers. There's nothing like trying and seeing what works or taking courses with students who've been working, who can listen to a lecture and say what really works and what means nothing when you get to the classroom."
 Ms. Onore's one-year program at the New School, for example, including the reading, is tied back to intensive experience in school classrooms at some of New York's small, experimental, public schools. The graduate training is done in a collaborative format based around small groups, called cohorts, that both study and work in schools together, so that teaching and learning are tied to group interaction.
 Ms. Onore's students spend most of their time from September to June in public schools and then finish with a summer of classroom study at the New School.
 "I didn't want to be in a college classroom; I wanted to be teaching in a school." said Margaret Holtz, one of Mrs. Onore's current students. Ms. Holtz, 44, had been a substitute teacher before entering the program in September. She added, "In this program you're in the schools right away."
 Among the greatest criticisms of education schools is that teacher training is not intellectually serious enough.
 For such critics, the greatest need is to make sure that teachers are adequately familiar with primary sources so they can be true experts in the areas they are supposed to be teaching. Some educators also emphasize tying the education courses with the more broadly academic ones, so that instead of taking separate courses in math and in pedagogy, a student might take a math course that incorporates a teaching component.
 "You can't learn what you don't understand by studying textbooks," said Edwin Delattre, who is the dean of the School of Education at Boston University. "If all you've ever done is read a textbook that refers to Ralph Ellison instead of reading Ellison, you are completely unprepared. Of the 1,300 schools of education in the country, very few can justify their existence intellectually."
 Because of such conflicting currents, there is a growing belief among educators that teacher training should be expanded from the typical four-year undergraduate program to five years. The first four would concentrate on course material and pedagogy; the last one would be steeped in intense student teaching and work in schools.
 The most conspicuous support for that structure has come from the Holmes Group, a consortium of 89 education schools nationwide studying ways to improve teacher training.
 The group is also one of the primary supporters of professional development schools.
 The idea of creating these learning alliances between universities and public schools has tremendous appeal. For schools, it could mean closer contacts with universities and up-to-date research on teaching. For universities, it could mean an opportunity to make their programs more concrete and vital. And for education students, it would be a crutial link between the classrooms in which they study and the ones in which they will teach. Some success stories thus far include collaborations between the Newark public schools and the Montclair State University and between the Camden, N.J., public schools and Rowan College in Glassboro, N.J.
 The University of Virginia in Charlottesville started with a professional development elementary school in 1989 and is adding ones for middle and high schools.
 "I believe in them." said Margo Figgs, a University of Virginia education professor. "I think they're definitely a good answer to what has been a widening chasm between people in the university training programs and people in schools."
 But the different cultures and reward structures of colleges on the one hand and elementary and secondary schools on the other have slowed progress. Universities still reward publishing over teaching, for example, which makes faculty members less inclined to favor approaches that emphasize experience. Elementary and secondary schools often see university programs as ivory-tower enclaves removed from the real world. Universities, explicitly or not, often give out signals that they see themselves as more lofty places than mere public schools.
 To deal with another pressing issue -- increasing the scientific and technological literacy of prospective teachers -- the City University of New York received a $5 million, five-year National Science Foundation grant. It will help prepare students to become better elementary and high school science and mathematics teachers and broaden the pool of students who elect a math or science teaching career.
 "In teacher training programs, there has been too much emphasis on teaching about teaching math and science and not enough math and science itself," said Richard Freeland, vice chancellor for academic affairs at the City University of New York. "We want to recenter teacher education programs for math and science on the actual scientific substance."
 And there is widespread agreement that teacher training remains well behind the curve when it comes to new technologies.
 An exception is the University of Texas at Austin, where the college of education sponsors a technology center with 500 computer work stations and has enough staff to make sure students are trained properly in using them. More common, however, are programs with far more modest resources and a single required course in computer literacy.
 "Unfortunately, most teachers leaving colleges of education are not as well prepared as they could be," said Paul Resta, a professor of instructional technology at the Unviersity of Texas. "In fact, the colleges of education often have less access to technology than the public schools do."
 With all the pressures for new approaches, many of the answers may have to come from outside schools of education. Advocates of so-called alternative certification say that the way to attract more members of minority groups or more technologically literate people may be through programs meant for recent college graduates or professionals from other fields. They would be sent to schools with very little orientation but with the expectation that they would take education courses while they teach.
 The best-known example may be Teach for America, the program modeled after the Peace Corps, which coincidentally has its own teaching program. At least 40 states have adopted some form of abbreviated study leading to a teaching certificate.
 These programs vary enormously in the degree of supervision and preparation teachers get, but increasingly they include training in pedagogy or close supervision by master teachers in conjunction with classroom teaching.
 "The idea is not to just throw peole into the fire; that's really the exception not the rule," said Morgan Appel, who recently prepared a study of alternative certification for the Tomas Rivera Center, of Claremont, Calif., which specializes in policy issues affecting Hispanic people. "The training might be accelerated, but often there's training in pedagogy at night, a lot done in conjuntion with both school districts and universities. It's not really a baptism by fire in most cases."
 Still, many experts doubt that alternative certification, which now produces about 45,000 of the 300,000 new teachers trained each year, will ever produce more than a sizeable fraction of the nation's teachers.
 "This is the largest single profession in the country," said Mr. Timpane of the Carnegie Foundation. "To say those people don't need the kind of specialized professional education we give every other important, socially valued activity in our society, I think would be disastrous. I'm not saying alternative certification can't be valuable as a piece of the puzzle. But to imagine it training the 300,000 teachers who enter classrooms each year is not going to happen, and I think, ought not to happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacqueline Jordan Irvine, an education professor at Emory University in Atlanta, says many teachers quit their inner-city classrooms because they "never had the training or support" they needed. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); America's schools are changing, but teacher training has not kept pace, says Cynthia Onore, teacher education director at New York's New School for Social Research. (Adam Fernandez for The New York Times); "You learn by doing," said Nicole Hart (left), an Atlanta teacher who trained with Jacqueline Jordan Irvine (right) at Emory University. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Chart depicting percent of teachers by gender and enthic diversity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TEACHING & TEACHERS (98%); TEACHER EDUCATION (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STUDENT TEACHERS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); HOSPITALS (65%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: CYNTHIA ONORE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996



181 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: New Toll Road Promises Lower Pollution

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your Jan. 2 front-page news article "A Toll Road in California Offers a High-Tech Answer to Traffic": The environment ultimately stands to gain from California's new toll road. 
 This is so despite the fact that, as you noted, new roads typically invite new development and more traffic, which cause air pollution and loss of habitat. The new toll road in Orange County ushers in an environmentally friendly twist: peak period pricing.
Because tolls on the new road will be much higher during rush hours than at other times, and because vehicles with three or more passengers pay no toll, planners expect cars on the new road to carry an average of 1.5 people, far more than the regional average of 1.1 per car.
More people per car means fewer cars and less pollution.
The new road has opened the door for a pro-environment transportation policy.
 
MICHAEL CAMERON
Oakland, Calif., Jan. 4, 1996
 
The writer is an economist for the Environmental Defense Fund.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (82%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (82%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; AIR POLLUTION; TOLLS HIGHWAYS & STREETS (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (70%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (55%); 

PERSON: CAMERON, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



182 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW;
A Chilly G.O.P. Response To Clinton's Budget Plan

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
After President Clinton yielded to Republican demands and submitted a plan late Saturday to balance the Federal budget in seven years, the Republican response today was as chilly as the weather.
The Government, meanwhile, was allowed to resume full operations after the longest shutdown in its history. 
 President Clinton's budget was certified as balanced by the Congressional Budget Office.
That was a condition Congressional leaders had set for allowing the full Federal Government to resume operations for about three weeks, and on Saturday the President signed legislation authorizing an end to the longest Government shutdown in history.
But for the nation's capital, which bore the brunt of the 21-day shutdown of parts of the Government, the huge snowstorm disrupted Federal employees' return to work on Monday. Federal offices here will be closed.
The snowstorm began on Saturday night, as President Clinton was meeting at the White House with the leaders of the Republican majority in Congress -- Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senator Bob Dole, -- to try to reach an agreement on a plan to balance the Federal budget by 2002.
Mr. Clinton opened that meeting by telling the Republicans that at their urging he had prepared his own seven-year plan.
Today, Republicans said that plan did not cut, or do, nearly enough.
"It shows us that Bill Clinton is the big-spending liberal Democrat we always thought he was," Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the chairman of the House Republican Conference, said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "It doesn't save the solvency of Medicare, it doesn't make the changes in it that will give Medicare recipients the choices they want. It continues welfare as we know it -- there's no real welfare reform."
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said today that the Federal Government would face another fiscal problem about a month from now because of the Republicans' refusal to pass legislation to raise the debt ceiling.
"We originally thought that the early part of February would be a problem," Mr. Rubin said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." "But because of the unexpected increase in revenues to the Federal Government we are now O.K. until the middle of February. In the middle of February we will have a requirement again for additional resources."
Mr. Rubin sidestepped problems earlier in the budget crisis by postponing interest payments to some Federal pension funds and tapping into others for loans to keep the Government's credit line open.
His strategies angered Congressional Republicans, some of whom have asked that he be impeached.
Mr. Rubin said today that the Administration had yet to find another stopgap method to get around next month's anticipated problems.
"What the Congress should do is to not shut down the Government and pass a clean debt ceiling increase," the Treasury Secretary said.
On Saturday, the President signed a separate bill that provided money for certain Federal agencies and programs, chosen by the Republicans, to stay open through September, the end of the Federal budget year.
He also signed legislation that will allow all 285,000 furloughed Federal employees to return to work and restore money for all Government operations through Jan. 26. For most departments whose appropriations bills have not been approved, financing would only be 75 percent.
Unless the Democrats and Republicans can strike a budget deal in the next two weeks the Government would face the prospect of another partial shutdown on Jan. 27.
The Administration's budget plan is a modification of one put forth weeks ago by Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, and other Democrats, which was rejected by the Republican-controlled Senate.
According to the analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, the President's plan would save $602 billion over seven years, as compared with the $664 billion savings in the Republican budget plan that Congress approved in November and Mr. Clinton vetoed.
The major differences are on Medicare ($102 billion in savings in the Administration plan, $201 billion with the Republicans), Medicaid (the Administration proposing $52 billion in savings, the Republicans $117 billion), and tax cuts (Mr. Clinton set the target at $87 billion, but said he was willing to give up to $147 billion if the economy performs as well as he expects it will. Republicans want a $241 billion tax cut over the seven years.)
"This plan will show that you can balance the budget in seven years and protect Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment, and provide tax relief to working families," Mr. Clinton said Saturday night during a news conference in the Oval Office. "This is a time of great national promise. We need to find unity and common ground."
The Associated Press reported Mr. Gingrich gave the the President a sharp response to the budget plan at the White House meeting.
One of the Republicans who was there quoted Mr. Gingrich as saying: "If this is where you are, we're so far apart we better start thinking about how we can call this off."
A White House spokeswoman said that the Saturday night session ended bout 11 P.M. with both sides "exchanging ideas" about each other's budget.
Because of the snowstorm, Democrats and Republicans canceled a meeting at the White House today to discuss the budget.
The weather also forced Democrats to drop plans to gather in the Oval Office with the President this afternoon to decide their next move in the budget negotiations.
Both the storm and the Republicans' attacks on the White House budget plan were unrelenting today.
"We're very concerned about whether or not there's two snow jobs going on in Washington," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority whip, who joined Mr. Boehner on "Face the Nation."
"Now, we feel like Charlie Brown, and Lucy has got the football, and every time you think you're going to get a real budget it's jerked away from you," Mr. Lott said. "It is a positive step, I think, and we should give the President that acknowledgment," he continued. "But there are still big differences."
For the last two months, the budget debate has been dominated by the Republicans' insistence that President Clinton submit a plan that balances the budget by 2002 with figures certified by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. They made that a condition under which they would agree to a full reopening of the Government. The Administration submitted four previous budget plans that were analyzed by the Office of Management and Budget, a branch of the White House directly under the President's control.
"Unfortunately after the four tries he made before -- this is his fifth one -- it's still very much an effort to protect the status quo," Mr. Lott said.

GRAPHIC: Table: "THE LIST: Balancing the Budget: Two Ways" highlights the savings in seven-year plans to balance the Federal budget, offered by President Clinton and Congressional Republicans. (Sources: Congressional Budget Office, White House) (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BONDS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); WEATHER (72%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



183 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
A MUSLIM APPEAL TO NATO
The Muslim authorities urged NATO to take over the Bosnian city of Mostar to avert more violence between Croats and Muslims there, but NATO officers said they would be very reluctant to expand their mission. 3
 
PITFALLS OF FOREIGN POLICY
Bosnia, Haiti and coming Russian elections have the potential to deeply embarrass President Clinton, who is now reveling in the mantle of a foreign policy President, some Administration officials say. 3
 
WILLY THE WHALE IS MOVED
Willy the Whale, who captivated children with his soaring leap to freedom in a Hollywood movie, is being freed from a tepid pool in an amusement park in Mexico City, his home for the last decade. 5
 
WALESA ATTACKS EX-COMMUNISTS
After Lech Walesa was defeated by a former Communist in presidential elections in November, he vowed to "take the Reds on again." He is doing that now with spying accusations against the new Premier. 6
 
ARAFAT ACCUSES ISRAEL IN SLAYING
Closing ranks with his Palestinian political opponents, Yasir Arafat accused Israel of assassinating the bomb-maker from the militant group Hamas in the Gaza Strip on Friday. 7
 
PERRY VISITS SAUDI PRINCE
Defense Secretary William J. Perry met with Saudi Arabia's acting leader and renewed a U.S. pledge of solidarity with regional allies. 7
 
Boksburg Journal: an ethnological museum in unlikely place. 4
 
National 8-14

FIRST SHUTDOWN, THEN SNOW
The Federal Government was allowed to resume full operations, but the snowstorm that hit the East Coast hobbled work in the nation's capital. 1
 
POLICY REMAINS A PROBLEM
News Analysis: Not only do the Democrats and the Republicans remain hundreds of billions of dollars apart on certain budget items, those differences are slight compared to their policy divergences. 1
 
THE GAPS THAT REMAIN
The huge differences between the White House and Congress are most notably over Medicare, Medicaid and welfare. 14
 
SHUTDOWN'S EFFECTS LINGER
The 21-day shutdown may be over, but it has already taken its toll on workers, home buyers, contractors and businesses from media giants to tourist cabins. 12
 
LITTLE ALARM AMONG ECONOMISTS
Few economists at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association are alarmed about the deficit as a problem today. 13
 
SEEKING HOPE IN EGG DONATION
Special Report: Infertile couples are increasingly turning to egg donations, and the young women who can supply the eggs. 1
 
NEW ROLE FOR MAGIC JOHNSON
Magic Johnson, the basketball star, is spending much of his time now patrolling the corridors of the Magic Johnson Movie Theaters in the heart of Los Angeles's black community. 8
 
WOMAN SEEKS OWN EXECUTION
Guinevere Garcia, an Illinois woman on death row, is fighting hard to have the State kill her without further delay. 8
 
LEGAL STUDY FIND SEX BIAS
A report said that despite surging numbers of women lawyers, bias against women remains entrenched in the legal profession. 9
 
Jurors will begin deliberations in the Madonna trial. 8
 
A judge issued a ruling protecting sea turtles from shrimpers. 9
 
Metro Section 29-32
 
BLIZZARD CRIPPLES CITY
A monstrous, crippling blizzard that experts said would make history attacked the New York metropolitan region and blanketed much of the East with snow that was expected to be two feet deep before ending today. It disrupted travel, commerce and life for millions. 1
 
CLOSURES, DELAYS, DAYS OFF
As the blizzard moved across the region, the Coast Guard closed New York Harbor to shipping, frantic shoppers were emptying grocery stores, and students and teachers in New York City schools knew they would be staying home today. 1
 
Business Digest 33
 
Neediest Cases 31
 
Arts/Entertainment 17-23
 
Theater: "Molly Sweeney." 17
"Sheila's Day." 23
Dance: New York City Ballet. 17
Books: "Not Without Honor." 21
Television: "Murder One" returns. 17
"Survivors of the Holocaust." 17
 
Sports 45-53
 
Football: Colts shock Chiefs. 45
Cowboys dominate Eagles. 45
 
Obituaries 16
 
Pat Cool, book executive.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 26-27
 
Editorials
 
Whitewater returns.
Greece needs a government.
The people's budget office.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: There's candor for you.
Bob Herbert: See-no-evil mayors.
William Safire: Blizzard of lies.
Mark Levinson: The Buchanan manifesto.
 
Bridge 21
 
Chronicle 28
 
Crossword 54

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); ISRAEL (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HAITI (92%); CROATIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); HAMAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); HAMAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); ISRAEL (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HAITI (92%); CROATIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WOMEN (87%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (85%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HAMAS (78%); RELIGION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); FILM (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); BUDGETS (69%); ESPIONAGE (68%); MEDICARE (64%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (64%); RACE & RACISM (60%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); MEDICAID (55%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



184 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Foreign Policy: Tough Election-Year Test

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Even in the relatively rarefied world of foreign policy, this is a presidential election year.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, no naif at 70, says wearily, "I don't do politics," and he is sincere. But he has people to do politics for him, including the formidable Thomas Donilon, his chief of staff, who once had important roles in the presidential campaigns of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. 
 "The most useful thing I could possibly do for him," Mr. Christopher said of President Clinton in an interview Friday evening, "is to keep a steady course." A comprehensive peace in the Middle East would not go down amiss, Mr. Christopher acknowledged, but it should not become an obsession to the neglect of other issues. "I have to be effective in advising the President on an issue that hasn't even arisen yet."
But other senior Clinton Administration officials in the White House and the State Department are blunter when speaking on the condition that they not be identified. They see three areas that could deeply embarrass President Clinton, who is now reveling in the strange, new and finely tailored mantle of a foreign-policy President.
Bosnia, Haiti and the Russian presidential elections in June have the potential to rip the stitches out of the President's new clothes, these officials agree.
In Bosnia, American troops are at risk and the domestic support for their role there is thin. In Haiti, American intervention has hardly produced the foundations for a democracy in a country that may yet unravel further. And in Russia, the possibility of electing a new President who is opposed to economic reform and cooperation with the West clouds one of the few early accomplishments of the Clinton foreign policy.
"The exercise of presidential leadership abroad works wonders so long as the policy succeeds," said one official who has seen other policies fail. "Look at George Bush. His popularity ratings were enormous when the Iraqi Army was on the run, but they dropped pretty quickly when Bush let Saddam Hussein get away."
The new and much-heralded display of American leadership is similarly fragile. After a period of drift, when the United States fled Somalia and turned away from the morass of Bosnia, Adminstration officials are proud that President Clinton could be convinced "to make some decisions and to exercise some needed leadership," one official said, "to the great benefit of both his Presidency and America's position abroad."
"No one talks very much any more of a 'no superpower world,' " another official said.
Mr. Clinton's new decisiveness on Bosnia and Haiti "gives the President a lot of leverage and has a big spillover effect -- everyone from Congress to Hafez Assad has to take him and the United States more seriously," the official said, referring to the Syrian President.
But the same officials admit that leadership is most benefitial when accompanied by success, and Mr. Christopher himself warned: "There are no -- or very few -- final victories in foreign policy."
These officials recognize that particularly in Bosnia -- where 20,000 American troops will be at risk in the middle of a morally muddy civil war in which peace may be just an interlude -- "the domestic consensus is as thin as ice," as one official put it.
Television images of dead American soldiers, as happened in Somalia, could easily erode that consensus in a country that wants to feel like a superpower but rarely any longer wants to pay the price, the officials say.
That is the main reason that Mr. Clinton, with the happy agreement of the Pentagon, pushed for a clear and limited American role in Bosnia that happens to end roughly the same time as the presidential election in November.
Still, Clinton officials say that the President is aware of the need for a steadfast commitment in Bosnia, especially should American soldiers die. "Bosnia isn't Somalia," one official said, implying that Mr. Clinton had learned some lessons there. "We got into Somalia so casually that the President didn't realize how committed we had become."
Michael D. McCurry, the President's spokesman, said Mr. Clinton sees his main political vulnerabilities simply: "It's force projection and putting U.S. personnel in harm's way with all the regional instability in the world."
"What he worries about most is his duties as Commander in Chief as opposed to his political duties," Mr. McCurry said. If Mr. Clinton fails at that task, "he feels he will, and should, pay a price," Mr. McCurry added. "He knows that's the political reality."
At the same time, he acknowledged that there is a political benefit to being involved "in those places we make a difference in peace." Bosnia was one such place, he said, and so were the Middle East, Northern Ireland and South Africa, the more politically beneficial spots for a Democratic President.
"One of the lessons of my three years," Mr. Christopher said, "is how essential presidential leadership is -- to be called on in essential moments in Dayton, to make calls -- and we'll be calling on him in the Middle East at critical moments. You can't do without presidential leadership."
While European diplomats here generally acknowledged the usefulness of American involvement in a messy world, especially in Bosnia, they also expressed significant worries about the depth of Mr. Clinton's commitment to stay the course.
Among America's NATO allies, who are said to be relieved at the display of American leadership and commitment, there is little support for the American idea of equipping and training the Bosnian army to better defend itself after the peacekeepers leave.
"The British, French and Germans think it's stupid and dangerous," one official said, though the Turks, Muslims like many of the Bosnians, seem happy enough to help.
Other areas matter but not as much, at least not politically. While Administration officials describe themselves as torn about how best to deal with China -- which has been both belligerent and overly sensitive in their view -- they do not regard China policy as a major political issue for many Americans.
Beijing's brutality on human rights and the apparent American inability to soften it create pressure in Congress and on opinion pages to deny China most-favored-nation trade status, officials acknowledged. "But we tried that road once," said one official who said he believed that Mr. Clinton stood to lose by restricting American trade with China. The Chinese leadership, nervous about its legitimacy and stability as the reign of Deng Xiaoping closes, could not afford to be seen as softening its domestic policies.
While denying that he does politics, Mr. Christopher was happy to attack, like his President, the freshmen Republicans in Congress.
"It concerns me that they want the benefits of leadership without undertaking the responsibilities of leadership," he said. "There's a disconnect between people who talk the talk of leadership, but who are not prepared to give us the tools, the resources to lead. I hope that over time, as they work through some of these issues, they'll understand that equation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; HAITI; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ARMIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



185 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

21-Day Budget Impasse Takes a Heavy Toll
Though Congress and the White House have agreed to reopen the Federal Government temporarily, uncertainty over the budget impasse remains. And the 21-day shutdown has already taken its toll on workers, home buyers, Government contractors and businesses, from media conglomerates to tourist cabins. The Clinton Administration estimates that the shutdown slowed the economy by a quarter of a percentage point in the fourth quarter of last year. [Page 12.]
 
In the midst of the debate in Washington over balancing the budget and getting rid of the deficit, it is hard to find an economist who is alarmed about the deficit as a problem. [13.]
 
Of Sources And Their Reasons
The dismissal by Money Magazine of Dan Dorfman, its celebrated columnist, last week again raised the most vexing problem facing financial journalists: they talk to people who have a stake in what is printed about companies. The people who think about markets and know what is going on are almost always participants. And they rarely speak against their own interests. Media. [41.]
 
Software Piracy on the Rise
For the American software industry, a counterfeiter who calls himself Captain Blood, is a symbol of the sharp increase they fear in software piracy. New low-cost techniques are making it easier than ever to make and distribute unauthorized copies of valuable programs. Even as they keep worrying about the multimillion-dollar offshore counterfeiting factories that have bedeviled American software makers recently, industry executives are now bracing for a surge of on-shore counterfeiters abetted by inexpensive CD-ROM copying devices. [39.]
 
New Microsoft Goal: Improve the PC
By now, the millions of people who have purchased Windows 95 have found that Microsoft's new operating system may be an improvement, but that personal computers can still be maddeningly difficult machines to use. Not to worry. Microsoft is already working to remedy the PC's shortcomings with a program whose goal is "to turn the PC into an easy-to-use appliance." [34.]
 
Rare Cases for Court to Hear
Normally, the Supreme Court deigns to ponder copyright and patent issues about as frequently as the Jets win the Super Bowl. So when the High Court schedules arguments on two different intellectual property cases in the same day, it's either an extraordinary coincidence or a sign of the times. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [38.]
 
The copyright infringement dispute between Lotus Development and Borland International is the first case in which the Supreme Court will rule on the applicability of copyright law to computer software. [38.]
 
Merger in Office Supplies
Corporate Express and U.S. Delivery Systems, two companies in the office-supply business, announced a merger valued at $410 million. Corporate Express is a office products provider, with customers drawn from the Fortune 500 community. U.S. Delivery is a network of local same-day delivery services, also serving large corporate customers. [40.]
 
All the Good News, Once a Month
For readers who seek only upbeat news, enter The World Times, a fledgling monthly newspaper in which all news is good news, an experiment in rose-colored journalism that covers the world as if Pollyanna were its editor in chief. [41.]
 
Keeping It (Very) Simple
Brain power is the subject of a tongue-in-cheek trade campaign for Viacom's Nickelodeon cable television network. The device used in the campaign, which carries the theme "The intelligent choice for kids," is to present "Brain Twisters" that are anything but. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [44.]

Question of Image, and Legal Bills
A magazine for lesbians has changed its name from Deneuve because of a lawsuit by the French actress, Catherine Deneuve. The magazine's new name is Curve. [41.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,181.43 up 64.31
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.04% up 0.10
The Dollar -- 105.25 yen up 1.87

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (82%); U S DELIVERY SYSTEMS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COPYRIGHT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COUNTERFEITING (87%); COPYRIGHT LAW (87%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (87%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); SUPREME COURTS (85%); PATENTS (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); WRITERS (74%); MERGERS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); PATENT LAW (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (57%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



186 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE ISSUES;
The Bottom Line May Be the Same, but All the Other Items Appear to Be Out of Sync

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
President Clinton's proposal to balance the budget in seven years, rather than narrowing the differences between him and Republicans in Congress, shows how big the gap is.
In a hastily prepared evaluation, the Congressional Budget Office said on Saturday that Mr. Clinton's latest plan would eliminate the deficit in the year 2002. 
 But there are still huge differences between the White House and Congress, most notably over Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly, Medicaid, the health program for the poor, and welfare. The savings proposed by the President in those three areas are about half as large as the savings demanded by Congressional Republicans.
Administration officials said today that the President had reluctantly embraced the latest Democratic plan as a way to reopen the Government, parts of which have been closed for three weeks. The original plan was drafted by Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, and Mr. Clinton made some changes. For example, Mr. Clinton added his own proposal for tax cuts, which were not part of the Daschle plan and significantly increase the difficulty of balancing the budget.
"This plan has been prepared by Senator Daschle, and if passed in its current form by the Congress, I would sign it into law," Mr. Clinton said. Republicans control both houses of Congress, and they said today that the probability of their approving the Daschle plan in its current form was nil.
Gene B. Sperling, deputy assistant to the President for economic policy, said the latest budget proposal "does not represent line by line, dot by dot" what Mr. Clinton wants, but "it is very consistent with our principles."
The Daschle plan had no tax cuts. The latest Clinton plan would cut taxes by $87 billion over seven years, while Congressional Republicans would cut taxes by $241 billion over seven years.
Many Democrats in Congress oppose such tax cuts, saying they would force Congress to make deeper cuts in social welfare programs for low-income people. In an interview in November, Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, said, "Every Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee opposes the President's tax proposal."
The latest White House proposal would cut annually appropriated discretionary spending more deeply than Mr. Clinton recommended just last month. These cuts totaled $250 billion over seven years in the President's December budget, and he now proposes $295 billion of savings, compared with the Republican proposal for $383 billion in savings.
Mr. Clinton and the Republicans are as far apart as ever on the philosophy and structure of Medicaid. The Republicans want to convert the program to a block grant, giving each state a fixed amount of money to finance health care for the poor.
Mr. Clinton insists that Medicaid remain an entitlement, guaranteeing health benefits to everyone in the country who meets the eligibility criteria. But he would limit the annual increase in the per-capita cost of Medicaid, and he would cut special payments to hospitals serving large numbers of the indigent.
The Congressional Budget Office said the President's latest Medicaid proposals would save $52 billion over seven years, while the Republicans' would save at least $117 billion. The Congressional Budget Office found that an earlier version of the "per-capita cap," proposed by Mr. Clinton in December, would not have saved any money because it gave the Secretary of Health and Human Services too much leeway in setting annual limits on Medicaid spending.
Republicans criticized Mr. Clinton's latest proposals. In a joint statement tonight, the chairmen of the Budget Committees, Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio and Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, said The Clinton budget plan "tells the American people we can spend now and save later. That's how we got into this mess."
For their part, Administration officials said the profound differences between Mr. Clinton and the Republicans were illustrated by their tax proposals. Over seven years, Mr. Clinton would squeeze just $2 billion from the Earned Income Tax Credit for the working poor, whereas the Republicans would cut $27 billion. Mr. Clinton would raise $60 billion over seven years by curtailing corporate tax breaks, whereas the Republicans would raise $18 billion.
Mr. Clinton would, for example, reduce the tax credit for taxes paid in foreign countries by oil and gas companies, and he would increase income taxes for many United States citizens working abroad.
The latest Clinton plan would not save any money in farm programs or student loans, while the Republicans would cut roughly $4.5 billion over seven years in each category.
In his latest budget proposal, Mr. Clinton would give states new freedom to reduce Medicaid payments to hospitals and nursing homes by repealing a law that requires such payments to be "reasonable and adequate" to cover the costs of "efficiently and economically operated facilities."
Almost all the savings in Mr. Clinton's Medicare proposal would be achieved by curbing payments to doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers.
Mr. Clinton would raise $7 billion over seven years by requiring Medicare beneficiaries to pay monthly premiums equal to 25 percent of the cost of Part B of the program, which pays doctors' bills. The Republicans, by contrast, would set the premium to cover 31.5 percent of Part B costs.
The monthly Medicare premium, $46.10 last year, declined to $42.50 on Jan. 1. Under the Republican proposal, it would rise to $88.90 in 2002. The White House says the monthly premium under Mr. Clinton's proposal would be $67.90 in 2002.
Republicans would give each state a lump sum of Federal money for cash assistance to poor people, substituting block grants for the current welfare program, Aid to Families With Dependent Children.
The White House described its proposal this way: "A.F.D.C. would be terminated and replaced by a new conditional entitlement of limited duration. There would be a five-year maximum time limit with a state option for vouchers at the end of that period to assist children."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; WELFARE (US); MEDICAID; MEDICARE ; MEDICINE AND HEALTH BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); MEDICAID (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); TOM DASCHLE (90%); BEN CARDIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



187 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Advice Now In Technology: Be Selective

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
There was fear and loathing in Silicon Valley last week. Technology stocks plummeted as one high-tech company after another reported disappointing fourth-quarter results or advised analysts to revise their estimates downward.
Like witnesses to an accident, analysts had a number of explanations for what happened. But most agreed about what investors should do next: buy, selectively. 
 For Michael Murphy, editor of The California Technology Stock Letter, who had been warning for months of a market "correction" in technology stocks, it was a week to say "We told you so." Mr. Murphy said nearly all of the disappointments could be attributed to bloated personal computer inventories, which in turn were caused by hyped expectations for the Microsoft Corporation's new operating system, Windows 95.
"Windows 95 wound up selling about two-thirds of what they said it would sell -- about 20 million copies instead of 30 million, and it had a profound ripple effect," Mr. Murphy said. "A lot of companies spent money on research and development, and on marketing for new products, counting on a big boost from Windows 95, and the boxes are just sitting on dealers' shelves."
Among companies that Mr. Murphy considers wounded by the Windows 95 fallout were Cirrus Logic, a maker of graphics chips for PC's; Apple Computer, which also suffered from self-inflicted wounds, and Adobe Systems, victim of a software upgrade cycle that never came. "People like Adobe couldn't get shelf space because of Windows 95 and then Windows 95 didn't sell," he said.
Adobe was the biggest single loser in last week's sell-off, with its shares giving up nearly one-third of their value after the company reported a fourth-quarter loss and operating income much lower than analysts had expected. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes Adobe and is heavily weighted toward information-technology stocks, was down 1.77 percent for the week.
Shares of Microsoft, which were in the $95 range in Nasdaq trading early in December, have edged steadily downward since then, closing Friday at $86.375, down $1.325 for the week.
Mr. Murphy said he thought that major corporations would not upgrade to Windows 95 in quantity until March, and that it would take the computer industry that long to work off inventories, so various Windows-related hardware and software stocks would remain depressed. "We're treating it as an opportunity to buy the best names when they look cheap," he said, naming Cirrus Logic, Adobe, the Intel Corporation and Autodesk Inc. "These are great companies and they're going to get nailed," he said.
Bruce Lupatkin, director of research at Hambrecht & Quist, is another who blames disappointing Windows 95 sales and sluggish PC sales in the corporate market. "That impacts the whole food chain," he said, noting that chip makers have too much inventory, and software vendors are still waiting for the next upgrade cycle to kick in.
Mr. Lupatkin's advice to investors?
"Absolutely be selective," he said. "You can go down the line in almost any category and find winners and losers." He likes S3 Inc. in graphics chips and Compaq Computer in PC's.
But one major technology investor said he believed that there were more fundamental issues at work in the technology selloff than a few companies missing their quarter's targets.
"There are some things going on here that are peculiar to Wall Street, that have nothing to do with technology, per se," said Roger McNamee, a principal of Integral Capital Partners, a $500 million technology investment fund in Menlo Park, Calif. "It's really a flow-of-funds issue."
Mr. McNamee said 1995 was the first year that a lot of general-purpose fund managers bought technology stocks, and they bought them only because they had to outperform the overall market in the second half of the year. With that performance pressure removed with the beginning of a new year, these managers are dumping technology shares, retreating to stocks they understand.
"The way you can tell is the selling is indiscriminate," he said. "Some of the stocks getting hit have no fundamental problems at all."
Looking ahead, Mr. McNamee predicted that technology stocks would suffer in the short term from slowdowns in the United States and European economies, but would benefit longer term from the growing adoption of computers and communications technologies in developing countries and the former Communist bloc.
"On Wall Street you have all these people saying 'I'm never going to own another tech stock as long as I live,' " Mr. McNamee said. "But there are very powerful waves in technology that are going to be 10 years in evolving. Developing countries will invest in computers before they invest in roads and factories."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (84%); ADB (FRA) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); ADSK (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); AUTODESK INC (82%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (71%); BONDS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MURPHY (75%); ROGER MCNAMEE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



188 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
Contractors Walk A Precarious Path

BYLINE: By ALAN MYERSON 

 BODY:
Even as they struggle to launch the space shuttle Endeavor this Thursday with most of their NASA counterparts just coming back to work, the more than 12,000 contract employees working at the Johnson Space Center in Houston are conducting another countdown.
By the end of this month, money for their companies' Federal contracts will run out. And even with the return of Federal workers this week, parts of the Government may shut down again on Jan. 26 if there is no budget agreement, leaving no pay for these workers, even though they carry out most of the shuttle and space station preparations. 
 Other Government contractors have already suffered the same fate. Companies cleaning up the E.P.A.'s Superfund sites are sinking deeper every day. Top executives of Weston Incorporated of West Chester, Pa., are sorting through lists of stop orders, partial shutdowns, and emergency go-aheads to decide how many more employees to furlough. Although about 50 are already laid off, the company is weighing the fate of at least another 100.
The uncertainty has already led corporations like Rockwell International, the prime space shuttle contractor, to cut back on travel and other expenses needed to keep the space program running over the long term. Some of their employees are saying they are delaying major purchases.
A memo to all Rockwell employees from Glynn S. Lunney, the manager of its Houston operations, told the workers that they could be confident of being paid only through Jan. 29.
NASA, told by President Clinton himself to stick to its plans, has decided to proceed with this week's shuttle launching. But losing the contractors would jeopardize the mission set for Feb. 15. ALAN MYERSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ROK (NYSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP (72%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SPACE; SPACE SHUTTLE SPACECRAFT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); SPACE STATIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); SUPERFUND (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALAN BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



189 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3594 words

HEADLINE: Egg Donations Meet a Need And Raise Ethical Questions

SERIES: THE FERTILITY MARKET: Buying Eggs -- Second of four articles

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN 

DATELINE: WALTHAM, Mass.

 BODY:
Dana O., a 33-year-old nurse with three children of her own, may be genetically related to one, two or perhaps three other children. She will probably never know.
That is because Dana donated her eggs anonymously through IVF America-Boston, a fertility clinic here, and through another clinic nearby. Each time, she was paid $1,500 for undergoing extensive screening, three weeks of hormone injections and outpatient surgery to retrieve her eggs. They were then mixed with sperm in a petri dish and implanted in the uterus of an infertile woman. 
 The money was the least of it, she said. Haunted by a sister's nine-year struggle with infertility, Dana realized that her eggs, which would be lost through menstruation every month, did not have to go to waste.
"I don't feel like I'm giving someone a child, but a chance at a child," she said. Then she laughed self-consciously, her blue eyes crinkling. "I hope they told the recipient that I have really dry skin."
Receiving eggs from donors like Dana has become an increasingly sought-after and available option for thousands of women who cannot conceive on their own. In 1993, the last year for which the American Society for Reproductive Medicine has statistics, 135 fertility clinics were offering to retrieve eggs from donors and give them to other women, up from 26 clinics in 1988. About 80 percent of the donors were anonymous; the others were relatives or friends of the women who received the eggs.
Although the first egg donor babies were born in the mid-1980's, it was not until about five years ago, when the technique was simplified, that egg donation began to take off: of the 2,500 babies born from donated eggs through 1993, 1,000 were conceived just in that year. Individual clinics report that their numbers have continued to climb, particularly as patients discover that the success rate of this procedure can be about 50 percent.
But more than any other area of reproductive technology, egg donation raises an array of ethical concerns: whether donors are victimized, whether clinics give recipients truthful information about the donors, whether the whole process has become too commercial. The fees paid donors are rising as demand soars. Some critics are troubled at what they see as the crassness of the advertisements run by clinics and by brokers who act as intermediaries between donors and recipients.
"You can see ads for donors that say, 'We Pay Top Dollar,' and that's distasteful when you're talking about medical treatment," said Dr. Mark V. Sauer, who helped pioneer egg donation at the University of Southern California.
For recipients, egg donation is usually the end of the line. By the time most consider becoming pregnant with another woman's egg, they have descended through all the circles of infertility hell, having spent many years and thousands of dollars on inseminations, surgery and in vitro fertilization.
Most recipients are women in their late 30's to mid-40's who have an irreversible, age-related condition: their ovaries can no longer produce eggs of sufficient quality to fertilize into embryos. Other recipients may have entered premature menopause, some as early as their late 20's. And still others may carry genetic diseases or have received radiation therapy for cancer that damaged their ovaries. Even so, doctors say many such patients, whose only significant problem is their eggs, can sustain a pregnancy -- if they use a healthy woman's eggs.
The donors, by contrast, tend to be fertile women in their 20's and early 30's, who usually learn about donation from advertisements. Some are attracted by the fees; others, like Dana, have altruistic motives.
Critics of egg donation are legion. Some countries, including Germany and Switzerland, ban the procedure. The Roman Catholic Church condemns egg donation and other artificial aids to conception. Some ethicists warn that donors, usually younger and poorer than the recipients, can be exploited if they are not sufficiently counseled about medical risks or the psychological consequences of giving away their genetic material.
Arthur Caplan, a philosophy professor who is the director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, said that the field of egg donation lacks industry-wide standards. "Should donors be paid?" he asked. "What's a fair price? Who should the donors be? And who should be allowed to use the egg donor services?"
Egg recipients are also vulnerable, said Dr. Hilary Hanafin, a psychologist at the Center for Surrogate Parenting and Egg Donation in Beverly Hills, Calif. "I have no doubt that some clinics leave out information about donors, intentionally to 'dress them up' or unintentionally in their desire to get a match," said Dr. Hanafin.
For many infertile couples, egg donation is a gamble worth taking, because they can have a child who is half theirs genetically. The price of a donor egg cycle is comparable to adoption, ranging from $14,000 to $20,000, depending on the donor's fee, legal costs and the extent of medical preparation.
During a recent interview at the IVF America-Boston clinic here, Patty S., a 43-year-old accountant's assistant, merrily chased after her 18-month-old son, who was conceived here with a donor egg. "He's the joy of our lives," she said. "The donor made our lives complete. I can never thank her enough."
 
Recipients
One Last Chance To Be Pregnant
When Mary D. turned 35, she and her husband, both producers in the entertainment industry, tried to have a baby. During the next six years, they went through fertility drugs, surgery to correct endometriosis and fibroid tumors, inseminations and three attempts at in vitro fertilization. Mary said that when she was still childless at 41, "I was completely depressed and my husband was ready to give up."
Her doctor in Santa Monica, Calif., proposed egg donation, but Mary's husband initially recoiled. "He had wanted a child with me," said Mary, who, like most of the donors and recipients contacted, spoke on the understanding that only her first name and last initial would be used, to protect the privacy of her child. "He was more comfortable with adoption than having just one of us give up a genetic tie to a baby."
But Mary's interest was piqued. "Even if it wasn't my egg," she said during a telephone interview, "I really wanted to carry the baby."
Many couples agree to try a donated egg only after great anguish, hacking their way through a thicket of difficult questions: How will the mother's relationship with the child be affected by the fact that she has no genetic tie? Should the parents reveal the child's unusual heritage to grandparents? Friends? The child? And when?
"I was worried that I'd feel like an outsider," Mary said, "less connected to her than my husband and his family."
Eventually Mary and her husband decided to proceed. To them, a successful egg donation had many advantages over adoption. Mary could fulfill her dream of being pregnant and not have to worry, as she would in an adoption, about whether the birth mother had had prenatal care. They would be able to learn a lot about their donor's background and would not have to be concerned about a birth father's reclaiming the child. And a custody claim from an egg donor seemed highly unlikely; no such case has yet surfaced.
After a few months, Mary's doctor found a donor. Following the California fashion of openness, Mary and her husband met the donor for lunch. "I wanted to learn what type of person she was, her level of sincerity," recalled Mary. "We liked her immediately. She had two boys of her own and needed money for their school. She knew someone who had been infertile and she thought, if she could donate her eggs, why not?"
It took almost a month of injections and monitoring to synchronize the two women's menstrual cycles. While Mary's donor took hormone stimulants to help her produce a high number of eggs (typically between 8 and 15), Mary took hormones to thicken her uterine lining for the embryo implant. Just before the donor ovulated, the donor went to a hospital and was given anesthesia. Her eggs were removed through her vagina with a fine needle. The procedure lasted about half an hour.
That same day, the husband's sperm were mixed with the donor's eggs. Two days later, the doctor implanted five embryos in Mary's uterus. Within two weeks, Mary finally heard the news that had eluded her for six years: she was pregnant. One month shy of her 42d birthday, she delivered a 9-pound girl.
"I was thrilled to be given the opportunity to carry her," she said. "I breast-fed her for 14 months." Her fears about not being sufficiently connected to her child vanished. "My little baby needs me and I'm her Mom," she said.
Mary's and her husband's wish list for a donor was typical: someone with the wife's coloring, who was healthy, reasonably bright and "a nice person."
But many couples specify a religious or ethnic heritage. Asian-American and Jewish donors are particularly hard to find. Because of the tradition of matrilineal descent, some Jewish women believe that the donor has to be Jewish for the child to be considered Jewish. But some rabbis refute that view, saying that a child born of a Jewish womb is automatically Jewish.
Other couples, who feel stripped of control by infertility, fantasize about the perfect donor. A doctor who does egg donations recalled one couple who said, "We'd like her to look like Christie Brinkley, have graduated from an Ivy League school -- but Seven Sisters is O.K. -- and now be getting a Ph.D., although medicine or law is acceptable."
Dr. David Keefe, an infertility specialist at the Yale University School of Medicine, said he reminds couples: "What you're dealing with in genetics is potentialities. Besides, every egg from every woman is different. With any child you get dealt a card. With donor egg babies, you just may not know who the dealer was."
 
Donors
'I Feel Like A Good Soldier'
Nearly three years ago, Monica Loustalot, who is married to the property manager of a San Diego condominium complex, figured out something extra to do while staying at home caring for their two children: With her husband's wary approval, Mrs. Loustalot became a surrogate mother and then an egg donor.
"I'm comfortable with controversy," she said as she sat in the Beverly Hills offices of the Center for Surrogate Parenting and Egg Donation, an agency that helps match recipients and donors.
In 1994 she gave birth to one child for a couple, and she is now pregnant with twins for another. In between, she donated eggs to a couple who subsequently had a daughter. "No more," said Mrs. Loustalot, who is 30. "I'm maxed out." After this next birth, she thinks her body will have had enough.
"For now, this is perfect for me," said Mrs. Loustalot, a high school graduate who worked her way up through the administrative ranks of a ceramic tile company before becoming a mother. "I'm not going to just sit home and bake cookies for my kids. I can accomplish things."
The money didn't hurt -- $12,000 for the first surrogate pregnancy, $15,000 for this one and $2,000 for the egg donation -- but it was not her main motivation, Mrs. Loustalot said. At first, she said, she felt uncomfortable being paid to donate her eggs.
"But I was driving to the doctor's office in L.A. from San Diego every other day," she said, "taking my shots, going for tests, so I worked really hard at this. And I thought, everyone else who works gets compensated. Why shouldn't I?"
She is delighted that her donated eggs helped end one couple's 10-year battle with infertility. "They tried so hard to make it happen that the success is that much sweeter," she said. "And I feel like a good soldier, as if God said to me, 'Hey, girl, I've done a lot for you and now I want you to do something for Me.' "
Donors give many reasons for donating. Some want to compensate for phantom children they lost through abortions. Many had friends who suffered infertility. Some, like Mrs. Loustalot, love their children so profoundly that they want another woman to share that joy. Many younger women say: If I ever want children and have this problem, I hope someone will do this for me. The notion of women helping women runs through their language.
Many clinics seek these donors by advertising in parenting magazines, weekly Pennysavers and nursing journals, as well as general-interest publications.
And while some ethicists and feminists once predicted that a donor's fee would entice poor women to turn their reproductive capacities into a commodity, that dire forecast now seems overstated. Although donors are almost always less well-off than recipients, who tend to be older and more established in their careers, they come from a cross-section of backgrounds.
Recipients selecting a donor at the Genetics and I.V.F. Institute in Fairfax, Va., for example, would find a list of potential donors that includes students, a police officer, a lawyer, several nannies, a copy editor, a secretary and a podiatrist.
 
The Marketplace
Bidding Wars And Finder's Fees
Egg donation threatens to become a victim of its own success: as more women seek it out, more clinics have begun to offer the procedure, stoking what is becoming a bidding war for scarce donors. In California, a middle tier of entrepreneurs known as donor brokers has emerged: mostly lawyers, nurses and psychotherapists, they charge recipients a finder's fee to locate donors.
The clinics' rates for donors range from $1,500 to $3,000. But some couples and donor finders run their own ads in college newspapers, offering to pay even more. An ad that ran in The Harvard Crimson last October said: "Jewish ovum donor needed for infertile couple willing to pay a fee of $3,500 plus expenses."
Guidelines from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, an association of fertility specialists, say a donor should not be paid for her eggs, but rather for her considerable time and effort. The fee should be fixed, the guidelines say, regardless of how many eggs she produces.
"If we don't believe in buying and selling babies, then why are we comfortable buying and selling sperm and eggs?" asked Professor Caplan of the University of Pennsylvania. "Does anyone really believe that donors are just being compensated for their time?"
Many practitioners are alarmed at the rising fees and the pall that economics may cast over donation. "A donor's motive used to be primarily altruistic but nowadays it's becoming for financial reward," said Dr. Sauer, who recently joined the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
Under his stewardship, the program at Columbia follows the tradition of sperm donation, and seeks egg donors among childless college students, whom practitioners see as fertile, bright and in need of extra cash. "I'm a little uncomfortable with it," Dr. Sauer said. "I want to do it responsibly, in a way that's not exploitative."
Critics say that college students are too young to appreciate the consequences of what they are donating. And pragmatically speaking, unless they have had abortions, their fertility has not been proven. Moreover, the critics ask, how will the donors feel if years later, they try to become pregnant, only to discover that they have become infertile?
"In a perfect world, you'd have only married women with children donating," said Susan L. Crockin, co-author of the forthcoming book, "Family Building Through Egg and Sperm Donation" (Jones & Bartlett). "But you wouldn't get a lot of donors that way and you wouldn't demand it of men."
Being accepted as an egg donor is hardly automatic. Many clinics screen potential donors extensively over a series of appointments, a factor that drives up costs. The Reproductive Medicine society's guidelines say a donor must undergo thorough medical screening; the group also recommends psychological counseling. Sperm donors, by contrast, are screened medically but rarely psychologically.
There is an inherent conflict, however: Clinics have a lot to gain by persuading both donors and recipients to go through with the procedure. George Annas, a professor of health law at Boston University, said: "I don't have much faith in counseling, unless it's done by someone completely independent of the clinic. Is someone from the clinic going to say, 'Don't do this'?"
Donors face the same medical risks as recipients: Fertility drugs can cause temporary bloating, removal of the eggs may cause cramping, and at least one disputed study has suggested a slight connection between ovarian cancer and long-term use of fertility drugs.
"My job is to talk donors out of it," said Dr. Susan Cooper, a psychologist with IVF America-Boston. "That's not because we don't need them, but we want to sleep at night. They're not likely to ever forget they donated and we want that to be an experience they never regret."
Not all egg donation programs even include a psychologist. Some therapists are preparing standardized guidelines for counselors, urging them to watch for economic stability and coping skills in a donor, and to be wary of anyone with a chaotic life or who seems to have been coerced by a partner.
As a safety precaution for donors, most clinics limit them to four cycles. The guidelines of the Reproductive Medicine society also say that donors should contribute to no more than 10 live births, which reduces the chances -- already infinitesimal -- that a child would ever meet and mate with half-siblings.
 
Privacy
Fears of Demands From Strangers
While many donors agree to be contacted after the child turns 18, most want assurance that they will have no financial or familial obligation.
Donors sign consent forms releasing them from any parental rights or responsibilities. More than 30 states have laws that guarantee sperm donors their independence from any offspring, but only a handful so far have comparable laws for egg donation. Under the legal theory of equal protection, said Ms. Crockin, the sperm donation model would extend to egg donors.
While Mary D., the California entertainment producer, met her donor for lunch, Elizabeth M., a 42-year-old mother through egg donation at the IVF America-Boston clinic here, has never seen a picture of her donor and does not know her name. The clinic, however, did give her nonidentifying information about the woman.
"It was anonymous on both sides," Elizabeth said as she breast-fed her infant daughter. "But the law could change tomorrow. I'd support my daughter if she chose to try to locate the donor so long as she respected the donor's need for privacy."
Will children conceived with a donor egg someday want to meet donors, in the way that many adopted children search for birth parents? No one knows, because most donor children are under 5 years old. Much depends on whether parents even tell their children about their origins.
In trying to gauge the future, clinics around the country vary greatly in how much information about donors they give recipients. At many East Coast clinics, the matches are made by doctors and nurses. Following the model of anonymous sperm donation, they tell recipients about the donor's physical characteristics and a few other nonidentifying facts, but that is all. Donors like Dana learn nothing about the recipients, not even if they became pregnant.
These programs reflect the recipients' fears that a donor could somehow find them and claim the child, the same kind of fear often expressed by adoptive parents. Donors, in turn, do not want a stranger knocking on their door in 18 years, looking for financial or emotional succor.
Contrast that philosophy with the one at the Center for Surrogate Parenting and Egg Donation in Beverly Hills, a high-end donor broker agency that charges each recipient $6,000, which covers the agency's own fee for recruiting and screening donors as well as the donor's fee.
Each couple works with a psychologist to choose a donor from a list of about 150. The couple receives a dossier on the donor and her extended family, including photographs and her Social Security number, in case they ever need to contact her. The center urges donors and recipients to meet.
"It is much more work to do open rather than closed donation," said Dr. Elaine Gordon, a psychologist at the center. "Everyone is nervous. But afterwards, they're all so glad they did it that way. They feel more finished with it and there's no residual curiosity."
The intention of the California clinics is to echo open adoption, in which birth parents and adoptive parents meet and sometimes remain in contact. The extensive information made available allows recipients one day to tell a child a story as free of mystery as possible.
"We'll find a way to tell her," said Elizabeth. "I'm so comfortable with it that I'm not worried." Besides, that day of reckoning was still years off; just now, she was blissfully absorbed in burping her daughter.
"Egg donation is a tremendously private decision," she said, "and a couple has to be able to cross all those thresholds. We did it, and now we have this absolutely beautiful child."
 
The Fertility Market
 
YESTERDAY -- Competition for patients and top doctors drives the industry.
 
TODAY -- Increasingly, the infertile buy eggs from healthy, young women.
 
TOMORROW -- The infertile have a cul ture and a language all their own.
 
WEDNESDAY -- Bringing up I.V.F. babies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Advertisements to recruit egg donors have led to complaints of commercialism; Monica Loustalot was a surrogate mother in 1994, then donated eggs for another couple and is pregnant with twins for a third. (Eduardo Citrinblum for The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Table: "Managing a Typical Egg Donation: One Cycle"
 When a donor egg is used for in vitro fertilzation, the reproductive cycles of the donor and the recipient must be synchronized. An egg donor must endure a month of tests and daily injections before her eggs are ready to by retrieved and fertilized. A recipient's uterus must be ready to accept embryos. Table provides a 42 day log chronologizing what must take place with respect to the parts of both the donor's and the recipient's reproductive cycles. (Source: Dr. Mark V. Sauer, Columby University College of Physicians and Surgeons) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: INMD (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS621410 FAMILY PLANNING CENTERS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTEGRAMED AMERICA INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); INFERTILITY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; IMPLANTS; ETHICS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF; ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION; TEST TUBE BABIES REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (90%); ETHICS (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN HILARY HANAFIN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



190 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Equality Eludes Most Women in Law Firms

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Despite surging numbers of female lawyers, bias against women remains entrenched in the legal profession and results in steep inequities of pay, promotion and opportunity, according to an American Bar Association panel's report, the first of its kind in eight years.
"We expected that our evaluation would yield evidence of steady progress," said Laurel G. Bellows, a Chicago lawyer and chairwoman of the Commission on Women in the Profession, which produced the report. "Our predictions were, unfortunately, too optimistic. Now, we must say that the passage of time and number of women is not going to cure this problem." 
 Though women now sit on the Supreme Court, head the Justice Department and preside over the bar association itself, the stubborn barriers faced by rank and file female lawyers are reflected in pay disparities at every level of experience and in all types of legal practice, the report found. And in the profession's highest echelons, in law firm partnerships, law school faculties and on the bench, the percentage of women, while increasing, remains inexcusably low, the report says, when measured against huge increases in the numbers of qualified women.
In many respects, commission members noted, the findings fly in the face of a perception among male lawyers that the professional playing field has not merely been leveled, but has tilted in favor of women, who now comprise about 23 percent of all the nation's lawyers and nearly half of all law students.
This perception was voiced repeatedly in a male focus group at the A.B.A.'s midyear meeting in Miami, said the organization's former president William W. Falsgraf, a Cleveland lawyer who was vice chairman of the first A.B.A. Commission on Women in the Profession.
He said of the men: "Particularly the younger ones were saying, 'This has gone far enough,' and, 'We're having a heck of a time finding jobs in the law, and if we even find them they're not very good, and it's time to stop giving one group of people special consideration because we're all in trouble.' "
But studies cited by the commission suggest that in fact, women have been disproportionately hurt by the recent shrinking of law firms after a rapid expansion in the 1980's. A 1995 study of eight large New York City firms, for example, found that promotion rates for women, which were already lower than the rates for men, dropped to 5 percent from 15 percent among those who were hired after 1981 and were considered for partnership in the recessionary 1990's. Promotion rates for their male counterparts declined less, to 17 percent, from 21 percent.
Especially troubling to the commission are signs that while job opportunities are shrinking, even the slow and uncertain progress that has been made is being eroded in some areas by a resentful backlash or persistent stereotypes. From law schools come reports of women whose performance has suffered because of a resurgence of overt male hostility that recalls the early 1970's, when only 3 percent of law students were female. Income comparisons, notably a 1993 analysis by local bar associations in Colorado, suggest that though male and female lawyers now start out with equal pay, an earnings gap opens in the first year of practice and widens rapidly.
Among Colorado lawyers with only one to three years of experience, for example, the average annual income was $30,806 for women but $37,500 for men. For those with 10 to 20 years of experience, women averaged 76 percent as much as men, or $68,466 to the men's $90,574. And even as women increasingly replace men as chief legal officers of Fortune 500 companies, national surveys show female corporate counsels earning less than their male counterparts at every level of seniority, with pay gaps that range as high as 35 percent.
"What it suggests is not a glass ceiling at the end, but a process that begins right off the bat, and we're not facing that as a profession yet," said Cathlin Donnell, a veteran Denver lawyer who analyzed the Colorado data.
There are bright spots in the report. To date, a record 31.5 percent of President Clinton's appointments to the Federal bench were women, and over all his nominees received higher ratings for their qualifications than those of previous administrations. The Department of Justice is cited as a leader in creating a hospitable workplace for women, offering part-time work, job-sharing, flexible schedules and on-site child care.
"Equal opportunity for women in the law is important to all of society," Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was chairwoman of the A.B.A.'s first commission on women in 1987, said after being given an advance copy of the report on Friday. "Hopefully, the Administration is leading by example."
Jamie S. Gorelick, President Clinton's appointee as Deputy Attorney General, who spent 18 years in private practice, is not surprised that so many women are drawn to Government service. Currently, they comprise 35 percent of the executive branch's 25,000 lawyers.
"In Government we don't have any minds and talents to waste, unlike the private sector," she said. "There's an opportunity for women to show their stuff and I think that alone will have an enormous effect on the private marketplace."
But the commission report is less optimistic. In the private sector, it notes, very few lawyers -- 1 to 4 percent -- dare to take advantage of the "family friendly" policies adopted by most law firms in the last decade. Those who do often are tarred as not seriously committed to the law.
Even women who have demonstrated their commitment for a decade or more often face a combination of crude and subtle barriers to advancement, like the partner at a large national law firm whose commercial real estate client celebrated the success of a two-year leasing project she had directed by taking her male colleagues to a topless bar. Exclusion from male networks reinforces the belief that women are less effective as "rain makers," lawyers who can bring in business -- a belief used in turn to skew promotion evaluations against them, the commission found.
The gulf between visible progress and persistent bias is captured in studies of law schools in Chicago and Philadelphia that found classes in which women are effectively silenced by male students who heckle them as "femi-Nazis" and overwhelmingly male faculty who ignore them. One male professor in Chicago told students in a discussion of a Supreme Court opinion written by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor that it was written by a woman and "women always change their minds."
Estelle D. Rodgers, a commission member, said, "The status of women in the profession has changed surprisingly little in very important ways that affect people's real lives."
She recalled the testimony of a woman at the first commission hearings in 1988 who described going into labor at her top flight law firm in the middle of an important meeting with Japanese clients and making her presentation between contractions for fear of losing her credibility. Ms. Rodgers, now a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union in Washington, graduated from law school in 1973 and left a large private firm for public interest work after the birth of her first child in 1978.
Today's young female lawyers say that they are less willing to make extreme personal sacrifices to adapt to a work culture defined by and for white men, and that they expect employers to accommodate their life needs, the report says. But many are coming to a rude awakening.
In the commission's hearings last year a lawyer who was recently the first to give birth in a firm of 100 lawyers described how on her return from a brief, hard-won maternity leave she asked for more regular hours and instead was assigned to write all the litigation team's overnight and weekend motions.
"Once she said she needed more regular hours, a kind of baiting went on," recalled Mary Cranston, the commission's liaison representing large law firms, and herself a partner in San Francisco's Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro, long a leader in hiring and promoting women.
The good news, the report says, is that women are not giving up. Many who left law firms have formed their own, or gone to corporate law departments where they are gaining the authority to choose which outside lawyers will get company business.
"There's an old girls' network that's starting to develop," Miss Cranston said in a comment echoed across the country.
It is only by taking advantage of the power of their numbers in such ways, the report says, that women lawyers can permanently change the structure of the profession.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Women's Progress As Lawyers" shows findings of a report by an American Bar Association study. (Sources: American Bar Association; Colorado Bar Assocation and Colorado Women's Bar Assocation; The Assocation of the Bar of the City of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN (ABA) AB A M WICKMANS EFTR (92%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN (ABA) AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; JUDGES; PARTNERSHIPS; LAW SCHOOLS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES LAWYERS (93%); LEGAL SERVICES (92%); WOMEN (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



191 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
For Speaker, It's Family First Or First Family

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
AFTER venturing into City Hall from Queens yesterday to announce his plan for rebuilding the city's schools, Peter F. Vallone all but said that he would not -- repeat not -- be running for mayor next year. The City Council Speaker, who is on just about everyone's list of likely Democratic challengers to Rudolph W. Giuliani, might try for governor. But not mayor.
"Believe me, it's not because I don't think I can't win it, and I don't completely rule it out," the 60-year-old Councilman said, sitting in his office as the snowfall turned the scene of lower Manhattan outside his window into a temporary Currier and Ives. "But running for mayor has two negatives. One, the most important, is personal." 
 Mr. Vallone, father of three and grandfather of five, says his family comes first. "I just can't be successful unless I can go home and be nourished. I need a family life, and I don't know whether this city allows you to have one. I think you can as President. I think you can as Governor. I don't think you can do it as Mayor of the City of New York."
THE other negative is that Mr. Vallone, virtually guaranteed re-election to the Council next year, realizes that there is always a chance he could lose the mayoral race. And if he did, he'd be out of a job since you can't run for two offices at once. So if he tries for higher office, it will probably be governor, even though the candidate-hunting Edward I. Koch would like him to try to topple his nemesis, Mr. Giuliani.
The Speaker's unofficial decision is not new to insiders. Mr. Vallone told Mr. Koch about a year ago, Mr. Koch recalled, that he'd prefer to challenge Gov. George E. Pataki in 1998 -- three years before term limits would end his tenure as Speaker anyway.
Mr. Vallone's closest advisers, noting his strong identification with the Council, question whether he has a fire in his belly for another office, and doubt his ability to win votes upstate; he has never run outside his own district, and the centrist Democrat is not a household name even in the city. Many Democrats give more of a chance to other Democrats who might run for governor, including Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn and Queens, and State Comptroller H. Carl McCall.
Mr. Vallone says: "I would have thought the same thing until I looked around. Almost everybody who votes outside of the City of New York is Italian."
THE Speaker insists that his new display of energy -- including yesterday's rare Sunday news conference and tomorrow's well-publicized State of the City speech -- is unrelated to his own political ambitions. "This is essential," he said of his new plan to channel dedicated tax revenues to decaying schools. "Otherwise the city is going to die, the same as it would have died if we didn't make the city safe again."
But since Mr. Vallone runs the Council as if it were a one-room schoolhouse and he the headmaster, anything the Council does reflects directly on him and his political standing.
So far, the Council has only occasionally taken on the Republican Mayor, choosing to accommodate him more often than challenge him, especially on the all-important budget. The Speaker even sided with Mr. Giuliani over City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a fellow Democrat who is trying to stop the Mayor from selling the city's water system.
The school proposal is an indication that the Council might be ready to provide an alternative to Republican budget-cutting policies of Washington, Albany and the Giuliani administration; the plan would perpetuate the income tax surcharge set to expire at the end of the year and spend the money -- used originally to expand the police force -- on the city's schools. The idea is a direct challenge to the Mayor, who has been slashing the school budget ever since he took office.
IN a way that only City Hall regulars would recognize, Mr. Vallone's decision to hold a news conference on a Sunday could signal a change, too. Sunday hours are not associated with the Speaker, who manages most days to spend only mornings at City Hall. Afternoons he generally leaves City Hall to practice law in his Queens office.
"I have a very good work ethic," Mr. Vallone says. "I get up early, and do an awful lot of work. But I do it within a budgeted amount of time." Mayors of New York seem to work 24 hours a day. "The public has come to expect that, and that's the trouble."
Mr. Vallone said he will decide officially next spring what office he will seek. Then, after answering a few more questions, he left for home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS MAYORS (92%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



192 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE LONG VIEW;
Politicians May Be Up in Arms About Government Deficits, but Economists Aren't

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 7

 BODY:
In the midst of the debate in Washington over balancing the budget and ending the deficit, it is hard to find an economist at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association, held here this weekend, who is alarmed about the deficit as a problem today.
For most, the deficit no longer represents a national account badly out of balance and in need of quick correction to avoid imminent disaster. Instead, it has become the centerpiece in an altered debate over the role of Government. The "deficit crisis," dormant now, will re-emerge in the 21st Century, the new argument goes, as the penalty for failing to cut Government's role as a provider of Medicare and Medicaid and even Social Security. 
 Everyone agrees on one point: the deficit, the shortage of Federal revenues to pay for expenses, has fallen from 5 percent of the nation's total income in 1992 to 2.2 percent today. That is as if a homeowner with a $100,000 income and $5,000 in mortgage payments found his income three years later up to $120,000 and his mortgage payments cut to $2,600 -- a much more affordable situation.
"The people around here are content with the fact that the deficit is on a downward path today," said Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, referring to the more than 2,000 economists at the three-day convention, which ended today. "What the deficit has become now is a powerful way of saying, 'I don't want the Government to go on doing as much as it is doing.' "
Before the deficit declined as a percentage of national income, the debate at the annual conventions was much different. Heavier government borrowing to finance a rising deficit, the economists warned, raised interest rates for all borrowers. They argued that so much deficit spending raised the inflation rate, and they warned that foreigners, who were big lenders to the American Government, might stop lending, causing a financial crisis. At the very least, the foreigners, particularly the Japanese, would in time siphon off wealth in the form of huge interest payments on the loans they had made.
Now all that talk has disappeared, although the national debt -- the accumulation of all the annual deficits -- is still at a very high level, having not yet followed the deficit down as a percent of national income. What remained this weekend from the dire warnings voiced at earlier conventions was the cry for less Government spending, but with a different rationale. The new rationale, focusing economic theory on health care costs, is gradually becoming the economic framework for the political debate in Washington over a balanced budget.
The process was very much in evidence Saturday, at a crowded session in which two Republicans, Michael Boskin and John B. Taylor, Stanford University economists who had served in the Bush and Reagan Administrations, respectively, debated two Democratic economists, Rudiger W. Dornbusch of M.I.T., and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary.
Ever-larger outlays for Medicare and Medicaid are the real source of the deficit, Mr. Boskin and Mr. Taylor argued, and unless the rate of growth of these outlays is cut back soon by even more than the Republicans in Congress are proposing, the deficit will balloon. "We talk a great deal about balancing the budget by 2002," Mr. Boskin said, "but nary a peep about how to keep it in balance. We'll need a huge tax increase to pay for Medicare after 2002."
For the two Democratic economists, that argument amounted to an abrupt shift in income from the elderly, who would receive less Medicare, to younger Americans, who would save on taxes, and from the poor, who would get less Medicaid, to better off Americans, who would not have to pay the taxes to care for the poor. But neither Mr. Summers nor Mr. Dornbusch disputed the alarming deficit projections offered by the Republicans. And they did not challenge the concept of cutting the deficit. They argued instead for more time to make the adjustments.
Other economists at the convention disputed the projections that rising health-care costs would require such a big increase in taxes to hold down the deficit. And nearly everyone noted that if the nation could return to strong economic growth the deficit would not be a problem.
The deficit has fallen in recent years because of a temporary spurt in economic growth, and spending cuts originating in the Clinton Administration, as well as lower interest rates on debt, including Government debt.
But none of the economists saw a way of returning the nation to a sustained period of the sort of strong economic growth that characterized the 1950's and 1960's when a more robust economy promised enough tax revenue to pay all the bills without a deficit.
"The best way to solve the problem is to try to make the economy grow faster," Mr. Solow said, "but we don't really know how to do this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMICS ASSN MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (67%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMICS ASSN AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; MEDICAID; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MEDICAID (70%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS MICHAEL BOSKIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



193 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: In Roosevelt, School Woes Go Beyond A Takeover

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT, L.I., Jan. 5

 BODY:
The crossing between Roosevelt and Merrick is a short, wistful drive for Janie West, an eighth-grade teacher who envies the order and comfort of the wealthier suburban schools east of the Meadowbrook State Parkway.
Her own district in Roosevelt, target of the first state school takeover in the history of New York, struggles to provide basic textbooks for its largely black student body, many of whom are so poor that more than half of the district's 2,600 students qualify for free lunches. Across the parkway, the Bellmore-Merrick district spends almost 25 percent more on its students, who are more than 90 percent white and college bound. 
 "In Merrick, I see stability," said Ms. West, who makes do with 46 textbooks for her 123 students in her Roosevelt classroom. "Here, we just keep trying to do the best we can. It's not equal. You can walk right out of Roosevelt, cross the bridge and then you can see schools where they have every need met."
In the old South, segregation was once law. But in the North, housing patterns created schools segregated by race and class, a reality that makes the state's effort to make over Roosevelt an enormous challenge and perhaps -- doubters say -- an impossible task.
"This is a classically segregated suburb and grossly unequal," said Jonathan Kozol, who studied Long Island school districts for his book on American education, "Savage Inequalities." "There's no question that stability, efficient government, integrity and wise administration are crucial. But there is a pattern across the country: that de facto segregation creates school districts that are separate and unequal and poorly funded. And almost inevitably, they end up with mediocre administration."
Since the late 1960's, when Roosevelt was transformed by an exodus of white residents, the community has struggled to maintain its schools with a tax base of mostly modest one-family homes, little industry and a strip of small businesses.
In 1976, state officials arrived in Roosevelt to prevent a financial collapse when the school board revealed that the district had a $2.4 million deficit and almost defaulted on $4 million in loans. A special administrator was appointed by the State Education Department to monitor the financial planning of the district.
History repeated itself this week with the arrival of another leader, Daniel A. Domenech, a lanky, blunt-spoken administrator. He will oversee the district until elections are held to replace the five-member board that was dismissed by the State Board of Regents earlier this week.
On Friday, he stalked the halls of the junior-senior high school, shaking hands with visiting teachers and picking his way past repair crews preparing for the reopening of the school, which board members closed shortly before their removal because they said the schools lacked fire and safety certifications.
Dr. Domenech's appearance was cause for jubilation among many teachers, who were elated by the replacement of the board's president, Seretta McKnight, who they accused of micro-managing the district to the point of picking paid advisers for the high school's homecoming festival. Ms. McNight did not return phone calls seeking comment.
The teachers also blamed the board for administrative confusion and a steady reduction of administrators who performed essential tasks, like ordering textbooks for the district. Since 1992, the district has been supervised by eight different superintendents, while the high school has been led by five principals.
"We need a rational working situation," said David Carroll, a 33-year veteran teacher at the school and president of the Roosevelt Teachers Association. "That's been nonexistent."
But critics say it will be difficult to fashion a rational solution for the school district, which is part of a classic system -- seen around the country -- in which wealthier school districts can afford to outspend poorer neighboring ones.
In Hartford, Conn., civil rights lawyers appeared before the State Supreme Court in September to demand integration of Hartford's heavily minority schools with those in its largely white suburbs. In the summer, the poorer school districts on Long Island -- including Roosevelt -- unsuccessfully pressed the State Court of Appeals for a greater share of state aid because of local financing disparities.
But the court ruled that the districts, "simply do not state a claim that these disparities have caused students in the poorer districts to receive less than a sound basic education, which is all that they are guaranteed by our Constitution."
In the Roosevelt district, the elementary students perform well, with 90 percent of the third graders reading above state mean levels, said Alan Singer, an assistant professor of education at Hofstra University who has studied Roosevelt's schools. But by 10th grade, their scores plunge; last year, only 18 percent of them could pass a state test in United States history.
The solution, Mr. Singer maintained, is a consolidated district of wealthy and poor districts in Nassau County that could pool resources and raise educational standards.
"It's a sancrosant issue," he conceded. "People who moved to Nassau County schools moved to avoid populations that are different from them. I think what's being raised by the problems now is that these issues cannot be avoided. They follow you."
Dr. Domenech, however, remains optimistic that the takeover will succeed despite disparities in spending by local school districts and the pessimism of educators critical of state takeovers that have already happened in California, New Jersey and Missouri.
"I am aware of that and I frankly don't see that as a problem in Roosevelt," he said. "I see Roosevelt as a very proud community. And what I see happening is the community becoming engaged, along with the opportunity to bring resources from state and federal levels to help with the financial problems."
"I think they can bring around the school district to reach parity with others in Nassau County," said Dr. Domenech, who noted that it is unlikely that Roosevelt could challenge the schools in Great Neck, an affluent North Shore community that spends more than $16,000 a year on each student. "But they can certainly reach parity with the school district average."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janie West, an eighth-grade teacher in Roosevelt. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROOSEVELT TEACHERS ASSOCIATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROOSEVELT (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBURBS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (61%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN JONATHAN KOZOL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



194 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: A New Paper Accentuates the Positive

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
Really and truly, there are many politicians who serve nobly, businesses that are steadily thriving and parents who love and protect their children.
It is just that readers do not often find much about them in the mainstream media's usual doom-mongering coverage of crime, war, disaster and economic woes. 
 Enter The World Times, a fledgling newspaper in which all news is good news, an experiment in rose-colored journalism that covers the world as if Pollyanna were its editor in chief.
"We're the only paper in the world that's focusing on the positive," said David Christian Hamblin, a 35-year-old actor and magazine entrepreneur who publishes the 15,000-circulation monthly from his home in Santa Fe, N.M. "Why not sit down in the morning with your cup of coffee and read these articles that will inspire and motivate and empower people? That's hopefully what we can do."
A New Age-flavored broadsheetalmost as thick as The New York Times, The World Times made no claims of publishing all the news that's fit to print; rather, it proclaimed on its front page that it wanted to "provide hope and inspiration to us all."
In its January issue, that mission translated into Associated Press articles about a large immunization drive in India and how black churches in Cincinnati were working to improve bad neighborhoods; features on sightings of the Virgin Mary and how meditation improves health, and business news on the continued success of the Mall of America, in Bloomington, Minn. Not to mention a column of reviews titled "Uplifting Films" and advice from the "Humorous Herbalist."
For habitues of a harder world, a perusal of the paper can leave the treacly aftertaste of a meal of candy and cake. But sweet-toothed readers have no complaints.
"I love that paper," said Dale Olson, a Hollywood public relations agent. "What it gives me is a feeling of serenity, pleasure, warmth and comfort."
But he said he worried about the paper's prospects: "I wonder if it's going to make it. I wonder if it's so gentle, it'll have difficulty maintaining financial stability."
That was the opinion of media analysts and journalists as well.
"Oh, God, how long will that last?" said Larry Wills, editorial page editor of The Las Vegas Sun in Nevada, when he heard about The World Times. "I'd be very pessimistic that it would even survive."
Mr. Wills is trying a similar experiment with "Sunny Side Up," a four-month-old column on The Sun's editorial page devoted to good news sent in by readers. Though Mr. Wills said it appeared to be successful, especially among older readers, he added that he was reluctant to devote more space to it, because reader surveys show such a craving for bad news.
Jon Katz, the media critic for Wired magazine, was similarly skeptical.
"New Age journalism -- it was inevitable," he said. But "there's no reason to think papers will sell better if they have more good news," he added, because changing the good-bad mix would not solve basic newspaper problems, including falling readership among young people and competition from electronic media.
Perhaps. But, hey, this is just the kind of pessimism that The World Times is intended to combat.
Mr. Hamblin said the idea for the paper came to him during a bleak spell in his life. In 1992, a fashion magazine he had been publishing in Rochester for five years went bankrupt and he lost not only his job but his home and car. He said he plummeted into a deep depression for a year and a half, and found that exposure to newspaper and television only made him feel worse.
"Everywhere I looked, I couldn't find any inspiration to stay on this planet," he said. "Everywhere -- in the news reports, magazines and The Wall Street Journal -- it was all violence and negativity. I questioned, 'What's going on here?' There's got to be some positive things going on out there."
On a hike through the desert near Santa Fe in May of 1994, the concept for a good-news paper struck him, he said, and he took the concept to Robert A. Davies 3d, now the chief executive of the Church & Dwight Company of Princeton, N.J., the maker of Arm & Hammer kitchen products -- who was then on sabbatical from the company. In June 1994, Mr. Davies called and offered him $250,000 as seed money, Mr. Hamblin said.
Three months later, in September, the first World Times issue appeared, a 100-page quarterly. It struck such a chord that two days later, Mr. Hamblin said, Phil Donahue's talk show called and invited him to take part in a debate on journalism.
Since May, the paper has been coming out monthly. Mr. Hamblin is now trying to raise more than $1 million to enter a second phase of expansion, to enlarge the paper's core staff of three people and increase its circulation to 100,000. Subscriptions cost about $50 a year (it is also available at some bookstores). The paper is already well sprinkled with advertising for spas, books on holistic healing, recordings of New Age music and paintings of angels.
Mr. Hamblin objected to calling his newspaper New Age, however, saying the term "has gotten the reputation of being kind of 'woo-woo' " -- he imitated a spooky sound -- "something that's not grounded."
"And the thing is," he added, "I feel The World Times and the people who work here are really grounded. It's not like we're sitting here channeling some entity or something."
No, but there is much that is quintessentially New Age in The World Times, from its focus on a kind of broad-based Eastern-style spirituality unaffiliated with any particular religion to its attempt to stoke positive energy.
At The World Times, Mr. Hamblin said, internal debates tended to focus on whether stories contained too many negative elements to be worth printing rather than on whether they were striking enough to be news.
"A few months ago, we were doing an article on a young woman who as a teen-ager had been brutally raped and after she healed she put together a charity for young people who had been abused and raped, and did an incredible job," he said. "The writer just wanted to write about the charity, and I said, 'Wait a minute, you have to tell the whole story, what brought this person to this point?' "
"In mainstream journalism we'd be looking at the rape and the brutal aspect of that and might just mention in a paragraph that she started this charity," he added.
The World Times does raise some important journalistic issues, from the question of what readers really want to concerns about the sensationalism of some American news coverage.
Mr. Katz of Wired said the paper's determined positivity appeared to echo a growing movement called public journalism, which, in part, focuses on positive community and government news in the belief that the media undermine democracy when they are too negative about civic life.
"People are unhappy with a lot of political coverage," Mr. Katz said, but "I don't think there's any mainstream number of people who don't want to know about a Bronx or Harlem massacre."
Still, Mr. Hamblin said he believed there might be enough of a shift in consciousness in America to create a solid market for good tidings.
His hopes depend on subscribers like Cynthia Coolidge, a Rochester bookkeeper. "I try to be an optimistic person anyway," she said, "but with all the news that you hear every day just from the radio, the TV and the regular papers, The World Times gives you such a different perspective. You can realize, hey, everything isn't all bad."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Christian Hamblin has been publishing a 100-page good-news paper in Santa Fe, N.M., since September 1994. He has been trying to raise $1 million to expand the paper's staff and increase circulation. Subscriptions to the newspaper cost about $50 a year. David Christian Hamblin, the publisher, sees a solid market for good tidings.
 
Chart: "Can't Touch This" lists some examples of bad news no covered in The World News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (78%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TIMES (SANTA FE, NM, NEWSPAPER) ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TIMES (SANTA FE, NM, NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (78%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; NEWSPAPERS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CHILDREN (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); WRITERS (76%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); RELIGION (69%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; HAMBLIN, DAVID CHRISTIAN CHRISTIAN HAMBLIN (77%); LARRY WILLS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



195 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: The Buchanan Manifesto

BYLINE: By Mark Levinson; Mark Levinson, an economist with District Council 37, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, is a member of the editorial board of Dissent.

 BODY:
"Separate individuals have . . . become more and more enslaved under a power alien to them, . . . a power which has become more and more enormous and, in the last instance, turns out to be the world market."
 -- Karl Marx,
 "The German Ideology" 
 In his campaign speeches, Patrick J. Buchanan is blunt. Workers, he says, are hurting. Their jobs are disappearing. Their wages and benefits are declining. Meanwhile, corporate profits are at record levels. One reason for the disparity, he says, is that champions of international trade are committed to a "quasi-religious free-trade ideology" that benefits big business at the expense of ordinary people.
Mr. Buchanan's economic positions, including his opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, are beginning to attract praise from blue-collar voters and the scorn of Republican leaders who call Mr. Buchanan "anti-capitalist." The Weekly Standard, a monitor of establishment conservative thought, labeled him "America's last leftist." Yes, they're talking about Richard Nixon's former speechwriter, the feisty guy who appeared on CNN's "Crossfire."
What does this uproar say about American politics?
Conservatives better worry. Their attacks on Mr. Buchanan expose the dirty little secret of the Republican coalition: The business interests and the affluent, who control the party, have little in common with the lower-middle-class workers whose votes the party depends on.
The Republican revolution is supposed to benefit the little guy. Why, then, does Pat Buchanan's support for a trade policy that puts the interests of workers first stir conservatives to name-calling? Is it possible they really don't care about the little guy?
President Clinton has placated business while showing little concern for the anxiety workers feel as jobs flee the country and wages stagnate. He has done so by embracing Nafta and GATT without including provisions for labor rights and standards. He also bailed out Mexico in a way that helped American financial interests.
Liberals should be ashamed. Except for those in the labor movement, they have not vigorously opposed these policies.
According to 1992 exit polls, by large margins people who voted for Bill Clinton and Ross Perot thought the United States should adopt a tougher trade stance. To Perot voters, Mr. Clinton's embrace of Nafta meant the Democrats offered no solutions. In the 1994 election, the right mobilized their rage.
Workers should be skeptical. Mr. Buchanan is correct that our trade policy does little to protect workers. But does this mean he is the Presidential candidate most responsive to workers' problems?
Hardly. If he really cared about workers, he would spend less time thundering against "secular humanism" and worrying about bureaucrats at the Education Department. He would advocate a rise in the minimum wage, whose purchasing power has fallen more than 35 percent since 1968. He would stress the importance of universal health insurance. He would call for labor law reform that would level the badly tilted playing field between management and labor.
It is not enough to say we should get tough on trade. A pro-worker trade policy would insure that workers and managers who tried to compete by improving the quality of products and work performance would not be destroyed by foreign competition based on exploitive wages and lax environmental standards.
Further, we would strive to raise living standards around the world by supporting internationally recognized workers' rights. This would expand global trade, thus helping our export markets while reducing the pressure on all nations to compete on the basis of low wages.
Pat Buchanan is not the first conservative to woo workers by tapping their real concerns. If only liberals didn't make it so easy for him!

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); POLITICS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RELIGION (70%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; LEVINSON, MARK BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



196 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Fighting in Soweto and in 50's Alabama

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
With its timelessly pertinent history of racial oppression in South Africa and the United States, "Sheila's Day" has been a welcome attraction for the better part of a decade at many theaters, among them Ford's in Washington, Symphony Hall in Newark and the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
What is new and noteworthy about this moving, hopeful musical drama today is that "Sheila's Day" has opened at a theater dedicated to children: the glowing New Victory on 42d Street. There, until Jan. 21, "Sheila's Day" will stand as a stirring reminder that theater for young audiences, which often stoops to conquer, can also soar to challenge. 
 Accompanied by rousing gospel and blues and stirring Zulu chants, the play, set in Perry County, Ala., and Soweto township and Johannesburg, interweaves the personal stories of two women to lay bare racial injustice and the horrific struggle to overcome it.
In the excellent cast of 11, one focus is a young Zulu (Letta Mbulu) seeking the passbook that will enable her to teach in Johannesburg. Her efforts land her in prison, where she is raped by a guard, and in the home of a wealthy woman, where her work as a domestic -- a Sheila, as maids are called -- leads to further humiliations.
The other young woman (Ebony Jo-Ann) is from Marion, Ala., and her woeful odyssey of employment (and resulting unemployment) takes her to Montgomery just in time for the famous bus boycott of 1955; to Greensboro, N.C., just in time for the Woolworth's lunch counter sit-in of 1960 and home again aboard a bus filled with Freedom Riders and besieged by bigots. Hers is a tale of an innocent abroad that generates laughter but ends with a recital of slaughter that chills the blood and wrenches the heart.
Written by Duma Ndlovu, Mbongeni Ngema and Ms. Jo-Ann, "Sheila's Day" is a production of the Crossroads Theater Company. At the crossroads of the world, in a theater for children, this story of sisterhood, brotherhood and mankind's potential for the achievement of justice has found a fitting home.
 
SHEILA'S DAY
Written, staged and directed by Mbongeni Ngema; also written by Duma Ndlovu and Ebony Jo-Ann; restaging by Kenneth Johnson; sets by Charles McClennehan; costumes by Toni-Leslie James; lighting by Victor En Yu Tan; sound by Randy Freed; production stage manager, Patresbettarlini Adams; musical direction, Irene Datcher and Thuli Dumakude; associate producer, Mr. Johnson; director of play development, Sydne Mahone. Presented by the New 42d Street Inc., Marian S. Heiskell, chairman; Cora Cahan, president. At the New Victory Theater, 209 West 42d Street, Manhattan.
 
WITH: Ms. Jo-Ann (Ruby Lee) and Letta Mbulu (Qedusizi), with Stephanie Alston, Debbi Blackwell-Cook, Gina Breedlove, Carla Brothers, Irene Datcher, Ms. Dumakude, Denise Morgan, Linda Sithole and Fuschia Walker.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On drums, Ebony Jo-Ann, left, and Letta Mbulu, right, in "Sheila's Day," a musical play about South Africa that has been revived for young audiences at the recently renovated New Victory Theater on 42d Street. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SHEILA'S DAY (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: YOUNG AUDIENCES (83%); YOUNG AUDIENCES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG AUDIENCES (83%); YOUNG AUDIENCES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (92%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); CHILDREN (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); 

PERSON: NGEMA, MBONGENI; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



197 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL;
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Although Congress and the White House have agreed to reopen the Federal Government temporarily, uncertainty over the budget impasse remains. And the 21-day shutdown has already taken its toll on workers, home buyers, government contractors and businesses, from media giants to tourist cabins.
The Clinton Administration is estimating that the Government shutdown slowed the economy by a quarter of a percentage point in the fourth quarter of last year. The bond and stock markets took sudden dips last week as budget negotiations stalled. 
 Republicans and President Clinton seemed to make significant progress over the weekend, and if that continues, financial markets could rally. But some business executives and financial analysts are still worried that matters could get worse if the budget deadlock continues.
"If they can't get their act together in Washington, said Robert G. Liberatore, the head of the Chrysler Corporation's office in Washington, "it creates a psychology that could be very damaging to financial markets and to consumer confidence."
Rudolph Penner, a managing director of Barents Group consultants at KPMG, warned that an already sluggish economy could be stopped in its tracks by political leaders' inability to balance the Federal budget and keep the Government running. "Little shocks have a way of building," he said. "I think the economy is in a precarious position."
While such a scenario is plausible, it is not inevitable; the economy is still growing, and the Federal Reserve is apparently ready to cut interest rates enough to prevent a recession. Still, analysts who are generally inclined to discount such gloomy predictions are growing edgy. "If this lasts another month, it will be a whole new ball game," said Robert Reischauer, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
The initial economic effect of the Federal shutdown is akin to that of a big industrial strike or natural disaster -- devastating, but generally not long-term.
But a shutdown is less disruptive than a strike because most furloughed Federal workers, unlike many workers on strike, have both "the resources and the motivation to keep on spending," Mr. Penner said. Most are middle class, and all can look forward to recouping their lost pay.
The deeper, if less tangible, risk is from what Joseph Stiglitz, President's Clinton economic adviser, calls disruption from "a thousand pinpricks."
Taken individually, the pinprick disruptions to Government and business are of modest consequence. Collectively, though, they create a climate of business uncertainty that some think could tilt an already weak economy into a recession. Mr. Penner points to the parallels with the summer of 1990, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait had a small tangible impact on the economy but had a negative effect on business and consumer confidence.
Under one scenario, the downturn could come with a sharp correction in stock and bond prices. Van Doorn Ooms, director of research for the Committee for Economic Development, a public policy group that reflects business interests, points out that the financial markets did not blink when Washington rolled up the sidewalks, presumably because investors remained confident that a balanced budget accord was in the works. If they lose heart, stocks could fall and businesses could face an increase in long-term interest rates of at least half a percentage point.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The partial Government shutdown has taken a toll on businesses around the nation. A paddlewheeler that takes visitors on tours of Lake Mead National Recreation Area in Arizona has been docked for the duration. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times); Larry Lazaros, the owner of a pizzeria in Philadelphia across from a Federal office building, said he had been forced to reduce employees' hours as the Government shutdown had cut his business in half. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ; STOCKS AND BONDS BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); BONDS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); STRIKES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



198 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
Businesses Waiting For Federal Services

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
From the industry titans who are arranging the $19 billion merger of Capital Cities/ABC and the Walt Disney Company to small-business executives, like Frank Tucci, owner of El Barrio Sneakers in East Harlem, the impact of the Federal Government shutdown has been broad.
It has particularly hurt small businesses that rely on Government contracts or were awaiting loans from the Small Business Administration. 
 Gary P. Petrazzuolo, president of the Avanti Corporation in Annandale, Va., received two "stop work" orders on Government contracts to provide technical support services to the Environmental Protection Agency, which had been closed. These contracts represent 95 percent of his annual revenue of $1.5 million. With that cut in income, Mr. Petrazzuolo has been paying the salaries of his 16 employees -- $2,200 a day -- out of the $50,000 in profits from last year.
Mr. Petrazzuolo said, "We've gone through our 1995 profits and, right now, I don't know if we're going to get paid back or not."
Mr. Petrazzuolo estimates that if he were to let his employees go, it would cost the Government $600 a day in lost taxes and unemployment payments. But if he keeps them on, he could go out of business.
In East Harlem, Mr. Tucci has had to cut back the hours of some employees at his sneaker store and has halted purchases of new inventory because a $350,000 loan from the Small Business Administration has been held up. "I need this new inventory to remain competitive," Mr. Tucci said. "It would be nice if Congress would resolve this little play."
The closing of the Federal Communications Commission has delayed a number of pending telecommunications deals, including the biggest, the $19 billion acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC by the Walt Disney Company. Shareholders approved the acquisition this week.
An F.C.C. spokesman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said it was impossible to predict how long these deals would be delayed. "When people get back here, there will be a huge backlog -- like the pig in the python," the F.C.C. spokesman said. "That will cost the economy millions it won't get back."
Because the Commerce Department has not been giving out any export licenses -- it issues about 30 a day -- exports of goods worth an estimated $2.4 billion have been delayed since the closing began, according to Carol Hamilton, a department spokeswoman.
The closing of the E.P.A. has been felt by the marine engine industry, which has been working with the agency to come up with emissions guidelines that will be incorporated into the designs for their 1996 models, the first time this has been done. "We haven't worked on that rule for 19 days," said Loretta Ucelli, an agency spokeswoman. "It's likely the marine engine industry will miss a model year. Who knows what that will cost in specific dollars and cents?" LESLIE WAYNE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (93%); SNPS (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION WALT DISNEY CO (93%); SYNOPSYS INC (72%); ABC INC (58%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (86%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SHOE STORES (72%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (64%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

PERSON: GARY P PETRAZZUOLO (90%); FRANK TUCCI (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



199 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
A Credit Crunch With Wide Effects

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
The decision to pay Federal workers and reopen some closed agencies will help relieve the credit, bill-paying and mortgage problems of Federal workers and home buyers.
Mortgage guarantees from the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration should resume soon, although there will be a backlog. And the paying of workers will alleviate the credit and bill-paying problems. But the suspension of the two popular loan guarantee programs has already rippled through the real estate market. 
 "The stuff we thought was sold is not sold," said J.D. Williams, who runs the Century 21 real estate office in Riverdale, Md., a Washington suburb. A real estate closing he scheduled for Monday was postponed for two weeks because of delays in processing the F.H.A. loan application.
"We have to ask the seller to amend the contract to agree to delay the settlement. The buyer will have to go back to his current housing to extend, although the landlord could say no because it's already been rented. If either party gets cold feet, they can now walk away," he said.
Because Mr. Williams's real estate agency serves a large number of Government workers, inquiries from people looking to buy new houses have been down as well, he said.
Dozens of banks and credit card companies announced programs to offer easier payment terms and emergency loans to customers who had been furloughed by the Government. The Bank of Boston got 100 applications in the first two days of its program to grant interest-free, 60-day loans to furloughed workers.
"I took an application from one lady in a Government hospital, then she passed the phone to the next person," said Denise M. Parrillo, a telephone sales representative for the Bank of Boston. "I ended up talking to four people in one call."
Nationsbank, the largest bank in the Washington area, will let employees who were furloughed postpone payments without penalty for 30 days. While this forbearance program had just been introduced when Congress decided to call workers back to work, "we will leave it hanging out there, in case they are off again on the 26th," said a spokeswoman, Julie Turner. SAUL HANSELL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (57%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION; VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CENTURY 21 REAL ESTATE CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION; VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); VETERANS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); SALES FORCE (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



200 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
In Tourism Industry, Many Are Bruised

BYLINE: By EDWIN MCDOWELL 

 BODY:
From mangrove swamps in Florida to a former penitentiary off the coast of California, businesses that rely heavily on tourism have been eagerly awaiting the reopening of Federal parks and other sites.
But many concessionaires and owners of nearby businesses are angry about losses they suffered during the shutdown, losses they say they can never recoup. 
 "We're not on any interstate or main thoroughfare," said Frank Hodnett, a vice president of the Cavern Supply Company in Carlsbad Caverns National Park in New Mexico, "so to get here, you really have to want to come. And if you can't come when you want, chances are you won't come back."
Cavern Supply operates a gift shop and two restaurants in the park. While the park partially reopened last month with state and local financing, Mr. Hodnett said business had been down 40 to 50 percent.
Some business owners are bitter because laid-off Federal workers will receive back pay and benefits, but their laid-off workers have to cope as best they can.
"We had to lay off a staff of 55, including a single mother of three children," said Linda Broadhead of Boulder City, Nev., a lodge manager at the adjoining Lake Mead National Recreation Area.
Mariposa County, Calif., which contains most of Yosemite National Park, was hit hard by the shutdown, with layoffs in the private sector estimated at well over 1,000. Yosemite Concession Services, which operates the park's hotels, restaurants and tours, estimated that it had lost up to $300,000 a day from Christmas to New Year's and has lost $100,000 a day since then.
The Red & White Fleet in San Francisco, a National Park Service concessionaire for boat tours to the former penitentiary on Alcatraz island, reported a decrease of 3,000 passengers a day. EDWIN MCDOWELL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YOSEMITE CONCESSION SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES LAYOFFS (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); TOURISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LODGING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); CHRISTMAS (74%); BACK PAY (72%); LAKES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (52%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN FRANK HODNETT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996

 
