

201 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: A New Concept in Decorating Outlets

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: LARCHMONT

 BODY:
As damaging as the recession has been to many businesses, at least one family-owned company, the Fabric Design Center here, has managed to go against the tide by expanding rather than contracting. Last week, in addition to its retail fabric store opened in 1990, the center opened a second outlet across the street: a showroom for both interior designers and retail customers.
Ernest A. Leckart, who started the company with his wife, Priscilla, says it is the two-tier system of pricing -- wholesale for the bona fide interior decorator and retail for the consumer -- that has helped him increase his customer base.
 
Seeking a Broad Customer Base
 "It's a new concept in marketing in the county, stores selling home furnishings at both wholesale and retail," Mr. Leckart said. "What I had in mind was to clone the Design and Decoration Building on Third Avenue at 58th Street in Manhattan, but open it to a broader customer base. While the showrooms in the D&D Building offer designer fabrics, wallpapers, furniture, rugs and accessories, they are restricted to the trade, or decorators, only. I thought a shop that offered one-stop wholesale and retail shopping for decorators and savvy customers would go over in Westchester." 
 Mr. Leckart, who has been in the drapery and fabric business for 32 years, formerly owned three drapery stores in the Bronx and manufactured draperies for interior designers. Most recently, he and his factory did all the custom work for three Calico Corners fabric stores in Westchester.
 
'The Timing Was Pretty Bad'
 "I sold Calico Corners on the idea of offering their customers more than fabric," Mr. Leckart said. "I also taught their sales staff how to advise customers on draperies and window treatments, and I worked with Calico Corners customers for 15 years doing all the custom work at our factory in Mount Vernon."
At the time Mr. Leckart decided to go into business for himself, the recession was full blown.
"The timing was pretty bad," he recalled. "Our sales were down, and so was disposable income. Stores were standing empty, yet nobody was dropping rents. It was also hard to open lines of credit for the fabric houses. Calico Corners put in restraints, but I was persistent and determined. And finally, after I gave my personal guarantee to several fabric companies, I was able to open the store with the kind of designer fabrics I wanted to carry."
By the end of the first year, Mr. Leckart said, the business was comfortably in the black.
"We had a couple of very positive things going for us: a built-in sales staff, eight experienced people I trained at Calico Corners came with me. We also had quality control, which is very important. We supplied the fabric for customers and had the labor done in our own factory. What's most important is that people in the area are very involved with their homes and that gave us a ready market. We ran a couple of free workshops and gradually, through word of mouth, we got customers."
 
Wallpaper Selection Expanding
 Yearly sales at the Fabric Design Center climbed to $1.3 million last year, he added. "Growth is steady, although it's slower because of the recession. But lately, the recession may be working in our favor because many families are staying put. Instead of moving, they're refurbishing their homes, which is good for us."
The shop displays 1,000 bolts of fabric for immediate purchase, and racks in a back room offer 12,000 samples for orders, including those from such fabric houses as Robert Allen, Ralph Lauren, Duralee, Waverly and Greeff. Draperies and pillows made in the Design Center's workrooms are on display to give customers an idea of how the fabrics will look when made up. Some wallpaper is also available for purchase.
"We're going to expand our wallpaper line with the higher-grade papers our customers want," Mr. Leckart said. "Our retail customers have sophisticated tastes and a sense of style. They like to do their own decorating, and those are the customers we are catering to, those who never had access to the D&D Building. Our retail prices are still 50 or 60 percent off suggested retail prices."
 
Bigger Discounts to Designers
 For the 500 or so interior designers who are registered with the shop, discounts are deeper.
"We give decorators the same wholesale price they get elsewhere," Mr. Leckart said, "but only those who qualify, which means they have to have a resale number and a bona fide business."
Mrs. Leckart is in charge of the production side of the business in the company's Mount Vernon factory.
"The factory is an essential part of the business," she said. "Customers want more than fabric; they want the finished product. And they want the work to be done properly."
Finding skilled people to do the work, however, is an ongoing problem, she added. "People don't want to work in factories today," she said. "But because we are located in a neighborhood with a large Hispanic population, we manage to get the employees we need."
 
In-Home Service Offered
 Another 15 employees work in Larchmont, including three in-house designers who, Mrs. Leckart said, will make house calls and for a small fee will measure walls and floors, make suggestions and help customers select home furnishings.
"In our new showroom, we carry an upholstered furniture line from Kravet, woven rugs, unusual art objects, customized lamps and accessories," Mrs. Leckart said. "This makes it possible for customers to redo an entire house without leaving Westchester."
 
A Savings of Time and Money
 The showroom makes it easier for decorators, too, Mr. Leckart said. "The recession has changed the industry," he explained. "Instead of getting commissions to do entire houses, decorators are getting smaller assignments -- one room, or maybe two rooms at a time. If they don't have to travel into New York City, it's so much better in savings of time and money."
The Leckarts, who met as accounting students at Baruch College in Manhattan, live in Harrison with their sons, Adam, 22, and Gregory, 27, who both work in the family business.
When asked what was difficult about being in business with spouse and children, the Leckarts hesitated before replying.
Mrs. Leckart said, "You take your work home with you." Mr. Leckart added, "But there's nothing we'd rather talk about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernest A. Leckart and his wife, Priscilla, owners of Fabric Design Center in Larchmont. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451130 SEWING, NEEDLEWORK & PIECE GOODS STORES (54%); SIC5949 SEWING, NEEDLEWORK, & PIECE GOODS STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: FABRIC DESIGN CENTER CALICO CORNERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FABRIC DESIGN CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: TEXTILES; PRICES; DISCOUNT SELLING FABRICS (92%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (89%); WINDOW TREATMENT STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); TEXTILES (73%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (66%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; LECKART, ERNEST A

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



202 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: April 15 Alert: More Taxpayers Owe the State

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
WHEN the first three state income tax returns arrived at the state Department of Revenue Services in January, A. J. Janschewitz got an inkling of what kind of year 1992 was for taxpayers: each return had a check attached.
"More people are going to have to pay this year than paid last year," said Mr. Janschewitz, the spokesman for the department. "I wouldn't be surprised if 80 to 90 percent of the returns we receive owe us money." Last year, more than half the people who filed returns were due refunds. 
 "We're going to have a lot of unhappy campers come April 15," Mr. Janschewitz said.
The problem is the changes made to the state's withholding tables in January 1992. Legislators, facing difficult re-election contests because of the newly passed state income tax, lobbied the Governor and the department to reduce withholding. While the withholding tables approved at that time allowed people to hold onto more of their paycheck, it will now mean an unpleasant surprise come April 15 for most of the 1.4 million people filing returns. "It's a question of 'pay us now or pay us later,' and the choice that was made was to pay later," Mr. Janschewitz said. "It's later."
Tax preparers said the underwithholding has resulted from a variety of factors, and has been particularly severe in some cases. For instance, where two people in a family work, the second income can be taxed at the top rate of 4.5 percent from the first dollar the person earns, since the state income tax is based on combined income.
"I've seen a lot of couples where they missed the boat on withholding by quite a bit because of that second income," said John Fiorito, a tax preparer in Stamford.
"I think it's going to take another year before people become aware of how much they should be withholding," Mr. Fiorito said. "People just have to get used to the system."
A tax preparer in New Haven, Joseph J. Riccio, said that single people were particularly hard hit. "I've had some divorced people coming in, they've had $37 or $38 a week taken out of their checks, and now I have to tell them they owe another $600, and they're stunned," he said.
Mr. Riccio said that, on the average, single people owed $600. "There's very few single people getting out of here without writing a check to the state," he said. In another case that illustrated a common scenario, Mr. Riccio said that a laborer came in, and he had had the correct amount withheld from his paycheck. But his wife had taken a part-time job during the year, at minimum wage. "She didn't realize that every dollar she made was like overtime on her husband's check," Mr. Riccio said. She filled out the withholding tables the way she thought she should, but she and her husband now owe $1,200 in tax.
Mr. Riccio said he had received two stacks of envelopes from the tax department, one for people who owe money with their return, another for people getting a refund. He said he now has most of the refund forms left, but it was getting harder to find the payment envelopes. "It's going to leave a bad taste in everybody's mouth," Mr. Riccio said. "Everybody's paying."
Mr. Janschewitz said that for a lot of people, this season would bring a double dose of bad news. More than 22,000 letters have recently gone out to people who filed a Federal income tax return last year, but did not file a Connecticut return. Those people are being assessed a $50 penalty -- even if they did not owe any money.
"An individual can apply for a waiver of that penalty, and generally speaking, the department will waive the penalty for someone who is not trying to sneak something by us," Mr. Janschewitz said. "If it was an honest mistake, generally speaking, we'll give people a break the first time."
Mr. Janschewitz said the timing of the letters warning people they have to file a 1991 return, so close to the time the 1992 tax returns are due, is coincidental.
 
All Must File
 "We got the computer tape from the I.R.S. and ran the program to find people who did not file Connecticut returns," said Mr. Janschewitz, who explained that all wage earners must file a return, even those who do not owe any money, to reconcile that the amount they had withheld was correct.
Mr. Janschewitz said the crackdown on 1991 scofflaws is taking up staff time, even though the letters were sent out by the department's audit division, while new returns are handled by the operations division.
"While it is -- no pun intended -- taxing our resources, there really is no time that's better than any other time during the year," Mr. Janschewitz said. To hold off, penalties would continue to accrue, he said, which is not fair to taxpayers.
Mr. Janschewitz said the department was also cracking down in other areas as well. For instance, one recent effort involved sending agents to shows, flea markets, fairs and other events to determine if vendors were collecting sales tax.
In addition, Mr. Janschewitz said, the department is planning a major crackdown on violations to the minimum cigarette-pricing law. State law prohibits retailers from selling cigarettes below their cost, as a come-on to customers.
"We expect, over the next six weeks to two months, to take fairly aggressive steps against retailers who are breaking that law, up to and including arrest," Mr. Janschewitz said.
As for personal taxes, the department is undertaking a cooperative effort with municipalities to identify Connecticut residents who register their cars out of state, thus robbing the state of the sales tax on the car, and their towns of the property tax.
"We're going out looking for the tax cheats who have the Florida or New Hampshire plates," Mr. Janschewitz said. "Those are the two biggies, because neither of those states tax motor vehicles as personal property."
 
6 Percent 'Use Tax' Ignored
 Another area of concern is the mail-order business. People who buy things through the mail are supposed to report those purchases to the state and pay a 6 percent "use tax," in lieu of the sales tax charged by stores. Various estimates put the amount of lost state revenue from mail-order purchases at between $15 million and $60 million a year, Mr. Janschewitz said.
"Whatever the number, it's clear we are losing a substantial amount of revenue to people who buy from out-of-state mail-order houses and believe those purchases are tax-free," Mr. Janschewitz said.
This year's income tax forms have a new spot for the use tax on out-of-state purchases, Mr. Janschewitz said, and the state is negotiating to share information with other states to gain access to information on mail-order retailers.
"Eventually, we're going to find the records, and there's no statute of limitations on failure to file a tax report," Mr. Janschewitz said. "Theoretically, we could look back to 1947, when the use tax was enacted."
This year, though, it seems as though everyone is paying a larger share, particularly when it comes to the state income tax. Mr. Janschewitz said the changes to the withholding tables eliminated the "cushion" that provided more than half the filers with a refund last year.
"Overwithholding is standard policy in most tax systems," Mr. Janschewitz said. "With that cushion gone, it means most people will owe taxes."
Without substantial interest income or a second job, chances are the amount owed will be small. "But the psychology of writing out a $5 check is not significantly different from writing out a $50 check," he noted. "They're paying, and they're going to be upset."
 
Running 10 Percent Behind
 Mr. Janschewitz said returns were running at least 10 percent behind last year, probably because so many people owed money, and people who owed typically waited until the April 15 deadline to pay.
Tax preparers agreed with Mr. Janschewitz's assessment of taxpayer psychology, and said that as a result the tax department would be advised to have extra mail handlers on duty for a couple of days after April 15.
"The only way people are getting a refund is if they didn't claim all their dependents," said Harold H. White, a tax preparer in Bridgeport. Most of his clients are paying anywhere from $50 to $800 in taxes, on top of what they withheld last year, he said.
"Whatever happens on the state income tax, people are unhappy with it," Mr. White said. "Even if they get $1,000 back, no one likes it. There's still a lot of anger over this tax. And the way things are this year it's going to be worse."
Diane Andrews, a tax preparer in Higganum, said at least 45 percent of her clients owed taxes, a much higher percentage than usual, despite her advice on how to set up their withholding schedules. Some of her clients, though, either did not follow her advice, or the companies they work for did not withhold properly.
"If people were doing the calculations themselves, they didn't withhold as much as they should," Ms. Andrews said. "They thought what they were doing was right. They read the forms carefully, and filled out their withholding forms properly, and they still owe money."
Not all of the problems, however, were with the tax department, the tax specialists say. Howard J. Nitkin of Waterbury said the problems with the state's withholding tables was further complicated by employers who withheld incorrect amounts.
"A lot of employers did not know how to load the state withholding tables into their computer programs, and that means they've been withholding the wrong amount all year long," Mr. Nitkin said.
 
Tax on Jobless Benefits
 Another problem is the confusing regulations governing who pays state income tax. The state does not withhold income tax on unemployment compensation payments, for instance, but it will tax those benefits at year's end.
That means a person receiving $4,000 in jobless benefits, and had another $4,000 in dividend and interest income, will owe $720 more in taxes than was withheld, or almost $1,000 in tax, penalties and interest by April 15, Mr. Nitkin said. Penalties and interest are automatically imposed when a taxpayer has withheld less than 90 percent of his or her total tax bill, or less than the tax they paid the previous year.
Few tax preparers were forgiving of the state's Department of Revenue Services and the companies that fouled up on withholding allowances. But there were exceptions.
"This is our first full year -- we're going to have to make adjustments," said Robert E. Stern, who operates a Milford tax preparation service. Last year, the first of the state income tax, residents were taxed for earining over only four months. Mr. Stern said he believed the changes to the withholding tables last year were appropriate.
"If you're going to get the credit at the end of the year you ought to have that money in your paycheck all year long," he maintained. "I think that's only fair.
"But that means you have to be very careful figuring our your total income for the year, and add to your withholding if necessary."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX WITHHOLDING (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (89%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); FAMILY (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



203 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Holding On and Letting Go

BYLINE: By Helen Epstein; Helen Epstein, the author of "Children of the Holocaust," is writing a biography of Joseph Papp.

 BODY:

ANNA
A Daughter's Life.
By William Loizeaux.
213 pp. New York: Arcade Publishing. $19.95. 
 MANY years ago, following the first death in my family, a friend came to see me. How could he prepare? he asked. There was no way, I said. But had William Loizeaux's powerful and minutely detailed journal been written then, I would have gone out and bought it for him.
Mr. Loizeaux wrote "Anna: A Daughter's Life" as a memorial to his daughter, who died in 1989 at the age of 5 1/2 months. Citing "Walden," he writes that Anna took him to the equivalent of Thoreau's woods, "to a place we would have done anything to avoid, a place where we never would have gone on our own, where we had to live deliberately, day to day, and face the more essential facts of our lives. Because of Anna, I have come to know better what is mean, what is random, devastating, and what, by force of friendship and love, is sublime."
Moving day by day, Mr. Loizeaux, who teaches writing at the Writers' Center in Bethesda, Md., tells two stories: the first, of Anna's conception, birth, brief life and death; the second, of the year of mourning that followed. Neither narrative, informed as it is by medical technology, feminism and multiculturalism, could have been written by anyone but a late-20th-century American father.
William and Beth Loizeaux began their parental lives with basal body thermometers, semen analyses and awkward moments: "At least once while we were camping with Beth's parents in the Adirondacks, right there in the very midst of what might have become Anna, I remember a cheery camper's call from outside our tent. It was Beth's mom, Betsy, and a whiff of bacon: 'Yoo-hoo. Time for breakfast!' "
Finally, Anna was conceived. There was a pregnancy monitored by sonograms, a Caesarean birth and then the news: Anna had been born with "a rare association of physical problems." "Though she looked perfect on the outside," her father writes, "things were scrambled within." Anna had an imperforate anus; her throat ended in a blind pouch; her esophagus led to her lungs; her bladder, vagina and rectum came together in a common chamber, and she had an association of heart defects. One hour after Anna's birth, as her mother kept asking, "Where is she?" her baby was undergoing the first of several surgeries in Washington's Georgetown Hospital.
Mr. Loizeaux conveys the events and feelings of the following months in a clear, elastic prose that accommodates his daughter's development, as well as the complexities of further medical procedures for a congenital heart condition and the emotional roller coaster of fury, hope, pain, confusion, helplessness and love that he and his wife rode. "Anna was 'doing very well,' " he writes, thinking back to a day one month before her death. "I know that in my exuberance I was less cautious and reasonable than Beth. I knew the danger, yet I thought that in the end Anna could do just about anything; that given what she had been through and how she had fought, survived and flourished -- I thought that nothing in the world could stop her. In fact, I actually had it in mind to take her up to a ball game in Baltimore." As he and his wife start a new year determined to conceive a second child, he writes: "There may be something fearful, too, in this passing from one year to another, from a year in which Anna was born, lived and died, into a year and decade in which she never will physically exist. . . . Never before have I felt the present so stretched between the past and the future, my mind looking forward and back, and the space between seeming to widen."
This is honest writing that chooses to risk pathos and embarrassment rather than rewrite reality, that allows for humor, and that tracks the process of becoming a parent and the process of bereavement -- particularly the struggle between holding on and letting go of the deceased -- with extraordinary precision.
If I have one caveat, it is that the author chose not to locate his personal story in the context of current bioethical debate. Anna was one of thousands of newborn babies who would probably have died at birth a decade ago, but whose care is now raising multiple questions for parents as well as physicians, politicians, lawyers, economists and ethicists. Did anyone raise these questions with William and Beth Loizeaux? How did they respond? Did they concur? Was religion a factor? Was the Roman Catholic hospital in which Anna was born committed to saving an infant's life, no matter what? Would they have had a different experience in another hospital? Was it life on any terms that Anna's parents wanted for their daughter, or only a certain kind of life? I would have liked to know.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ANNA: A DAUGHTER'S LIFE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (70%); HEALTH CARE (65%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (65%); HEART DISEASE (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); THERMAL SENSORS (50%); 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, HELEN; LOIZEAUX, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1993



204 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 2035 words

HEADLINE: The New Tatterdemalions

BYLINE: By JILL ROBINSON

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
It's late winter in Soho. On Wardour Street, a smart, young film producer wears six-inch platforms by Vivienne Westwood, a mink-cuffed dress unsnapped over shorts and leggings, a Jimi Hendrix T-shirt and a toque from the 1940's. She towers over her aristocratic companion in his stretched-out black turtleneck, Oxfam charity vest and gray tweed pleated pants patched inside the thighs with glen plaid. But somehow it all works: perhaps it's the old maroon cravat tied like a noose at his neck that does it.
He heads across town and picks up a bouquet of miniature black irises from the flower cart at Conran's, then meets his wife in Sloane Ranger territory, at Joe's Cafe, part of Joseph Ettedgui's shopping and eating empire. She's wearing a flowing rayon dress -- very Kansas afternoon -- and bobby socks, brown penny loafers and a Pendleton jacket, her blond hair sprigging out around one of those rumpled-fabric elastics designed to hold ponytails when they're not worn around the wrist. 
 Joseph (who is known only as Joseph and never as Mr. Ettedgui) smiles at them as he wanders through his cafe in a rumpled linen suit, looking like a character out of "Casablanca." He greets Angie Rawlinson, a pale, young short-story writer, in her turtleneck leotard and 40's patio skirt. She has tied an Amanda Wakeley organza blouse around her midriff -- not what the designer had in mind, but, as Miss Rawlinson explains, "The thing is to wear everything you really like and that way you're never alone."
The young English are handling decline and deprivation with a kind of grim romance: they're a road company of "Midsummer Night's Dream" wraiths tumbling down into city life from the heath. They're like the tattered fellows Ben Jonson called "tatterdemalions;" like those "figures with their enthusiast complexion" cited by Carlyle; or the "tatterdemalion scraps and fragments of political discontent" cited in The Spectator in 1893. Through the decades, they have never been as bad off as they seemed. More often than not these grown-up urchins are wearing old family clothes (even someone else's family's), though in every outfit there is something that costs the rent.
The more prosperous of the latter-day-tatterdemalion shop at Browns, the store that Joan Burstein runs with her infallible eye, like the Hollywood moguls ran the studios in the old days. She's selective and astute. If you're in Browns, you've arrived; it's like having your paintings hung in the Art Institute of Chicago. She carries John Galliano, Georgina Godley (who did stretch and hoops before anyone else) and Scott Crolla. Behind Liberty and off Carnaby Street, along Newburgh and Marshall streets, you'll see even more. The best designers are not necessarily brand-new or mass-market properties. Like writers, they have their own inimitable voices and are part of Britain's treasure.
"They're stimulating," Mrs. Burstein said, "too artistic to be harnessed. Of course, the important thing is not to take it too seriously. The best designers put the value of life first."
 
The Urchins' Faerie Queen
 "Once when I was doing a lecture at the Smithsonian I heard Evangeline Bruce talking about my mother, saying what a great influence she'd been," the designer Zandra Rhodes says. "You know she was a fitter for Worth in Paris, and then a lecturer at the Medway College of Art in London. My mother was one of those people who gave additional quality to life -- and she taught me to believe in myself."
Miss Rhodes, daughter of Beatrice Twigg, materializes into her round persimmon dining room in Notting Hill, her pomegranate red hair pulled up into a fiery fountain. Miss Rhodes represents the hippie elite; she's the urchins' faerie queen. She's wearing printed tights and turquoise knit leggings stuffed into orange sneakers with rainbow shoelaces, a belted black and silver sweater with a necklace of bronze leaves, an Andrew Logan emerald-eye ruby devil's mask on one shoulder, his mirrored rose on the other and, hanging between her breasts, his mirrored giraffe penholders.
Miss Rhodes's legendary chiffon gowns are being reprised around the world, turning heads at the season's dances with platform sandals -- doing Deep House, Funk hiphops, Mirage and Rave along with every bare midriff and sarong in town.
"I work best without pressure, trying this, moving along," she says. She cups each sentence with her hands, pausing as if she's catching it in the light. Underneath the costume, her presence is stable, imperative and compelling. "If you're a true original, you can't compromise. You have to stand alone until it's your turn again."
She sits at her round table for 10, circled by candles stuck into sand-filled ceramic sundae dishes, glowing under the chandelier with the mirrored Z's swinging from a silvery wreath. Everything is ruched in gold lame. And it looks wonderful because it never seems brand new -- that's her secret; that's England's secret. Picked up yesterday, by tomorrow it's seasoned as if it has been in the family forever, even if the family is divorced and long gone.
 
Another Mother's Influence
 Rifat Ozbek is wearing a Turkish protective prayer engraved on a dark silver amulet his mother gave him. She saw his last show before she died.
"My mother dressed in wonderful Chanel little black dresses," he says, "so I love clothes that are beautifully made." Mr. Ozbek has a neat 1949 good-boy haircut and wide, eager, dark Tyrone Power eyes. He says he feels free as an artist in London.
"The design instinct starts with the kids here," he says. Mr. Ozbek watches them at night in clubs like the Ministry of Sound, where, he says, "they've been wandering around in 70's gear for two years."
His 1992 British Designer of the Year Award, the bronze Mercury, acts as a doorstop to his office at Haunch of Venison Yard, Mayfair. On the wall hangs a painting with a giant eye done by a 16-year-old, Jerry Di Bastiano. On the window ledge circling the room, there are spools of silk threads, a tumbler jammed with white quills, an emerald globe, an orange plume with pink flowers, a glorious feathered helmet and, like a giant staring through a window, a poster-size blowup of a photo of the designer, with long hair, beads and silver earrings.
Mr. Ozbek's hands are as mobile as the clothes he creates. His fingers are as fluid as streams, not thin but like stretched-out child hands, restless, as if what he really wants is to be working. He laughs uneasily after each comment, shifting around in his chair, longing not to talk anymore. "Yes," he says, "I hate talking, although sometimes with four or five people I know well I can be an extrovert. Some of my best ideas come when friends are around."
Designers, like writers, become blocked, it turns out. Mr. Ozbek says he has learned not to be frightened by the blocks. "Sometimes they produce wonders -- or sometimes a mistake -- but that's acceptable; these are, after all, only characters in the repertory." To be a designer, he says, "all you should be expected to do is one perfect dress a year."
He strides out of his office to see a buyer in his showroom, his shirttails flying, his long legs in a busy 10-year-old's lope. He's wearing jeans, huge white cotton socks, snub-nosed black dress shoes -- "policeman's shoes," he says. Three sides of this room are lined with racks of angled sarong skirts, capri pants, tail coats edged in heavy black lace, swashbuckling coats, shorts with crossed daggers on the back pockets. The season's star is the asymmetrical double-breasted cream silk jacket spinning down around a long, pleated skirt.
"Everyone in London is wearing that skirt," the buyer announces. She is thrilled by jackets with bronze coins sloping like birch leaves over snowy shoulders, by the fetching black sheer sleeves (just the sleeves!) like chiffon lamb-chop muffs. "They'll summer everywhere," she says, "with jeans and a bra." And just as likely they'll be worn with a stretch sequin bodice and lilac boxer shorts under an old sheer negligee.
"Yes," she declares, "sheer is causing an absolute storm."
 
One Who Doesn't Show
 The nouvelle tatterdemalions sport the to-the-recession-born, abandoned country-house look. Here in England, after the press has torn your family to shreds, you're left in only your John Pearse battered tweeds dreaming of how wonderful it once was.
Mr. Pearse's mother was a milliner; he started as an apprentice in Savile Row. While Mr. Ozbek shows in Milan and Miss Rhodes in New York, Mr. Pearse doesn't show anywhere. He has been tailoring his robust three-piece suits for Jack Nicholson, Angelica Huston, Mick Jagger and Jerry Hall from his relaxed shop in Soho since the days of the 60's dandies.
On Jan. 1, 1990, Mr. Pearse greeted all his customers with a letter that said: "Of all the events that happened in the 80's, none was more poignant than when the Berlin wall was knocked down. Hence we are having a sale."
Now, he has a customer who's concerned because Mr. Pearse is about to go off on his holiday to Bali (he always returns with printed fabrics). "Could you fast-forward the cords?" the customer pleads. "You don't have to measure my waist; it's 32 inches."
Mr. Pearse, who in the motorcycle movie version of his life would be played by Dennis Hopper, promises the pants will be ready before he goes and says, "Your waist hasn't been 32 inches since you were in jail."
The customer turns away and regards himself balefully in a huge mirror. "I have a reservation about the cords anyway," he says. "I read an article recently that said I looked like an out-of-work bookie. But sod it," he shrugs, "they'll do for hanging around with the Notting Hill crowd."
He leaves, taking the long way round to Villandry, the new French deli on Marylebone High Street. Everyone you'd like to know eats Saturday lunch here, like the actor Steven Hartley, who is wearing Mr. Pearse's heavy, red plaid Shetland jacket (lined with a purple and red-flowered print like the ones he is getting more of in Bali) with old gardening shoes and a Gerry Mulligan T-shirt. Running in to join Mr. Hartley is his young actress wife, Sophie Heyman, who's picking up things from the deli for a Sunday brunch. Her blond hair tied in twine, she is wearing an ancient Martha Graham dance skirt, striped tights and lumpy brown Caterpillars, the boots called "Cats." Her own vintage Pearse jacket swings open over her pale pink camisole from Ghost, Tanya Sarne's company.
Miss Heyman says she loves the lissome medieval jerkins, tunics and gowns designed by Ms. Sarne in her chapel turned factory in Ladbroke Grove. There, you can sit on a pew off to one side eating one of the best lunches in town. And there you'll often find Ms. Sarne's buddy, Lynne Franks, London's superstar fashion and music promoter.
"There's an insider humor about fashion in London," Miss Franks says. "It's a mix of various tribal looks. Chic New Yorkers have an inherent sense of style, but chic Londoners have an inherent sense of originality. There's an inverted pride in looking messy, and manners give you freedom -- people won't stare at you here."
"Not at all," says Bella Freud, a young designer. "The English don't avoid staring because they're polite but because they're embarrassed. English people don't want to be seen trying. Right from the start you're discouraged from going beyond your place. You have to be oblivious to self-consciousness if you are going to get somewhere."
Miss Freud says she is inspired by Colette's Claudine, but her trim composed outfits are often sabotaged and wind up beyond Notting Hill at Whiteleys' movie emporium.
The other night there, a young woman was checking out the designer jelly beans in a pale and polished Bella Freud jacket worn with trailing bell-bottoms and an Apache scarf. Her buddy wore a purple suede coat worn out at both elbows, a detail like the one described in Blackwell's magazine, in 1887, as "a kind of defiant Tatterdemalionism that the Colonel liked to hug." His old opera hat pierced with quills to look like an Ozbek design, he is exactly the kind of tatterdemalion the English designers love to dress.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The young English are handling decline like grown-up street urchins, in hand-me-downs mixed with clothes that cost the rent. John Pearse vests and shirts are worn by the actors Sophie Heyman and Steven Hartley, shown in Mr. Pearse's shop. Some believe that if you're in Browns, you've arrived. It's one of the more prosperous of the latter-day-tatterdemalion shops. ZANDRA RHODES: She represents the hippie elite. Her legendary chiffon gowns are being reprised worldwide. RIFAT OZBEK: His mother wore little black dresses by Chanel, so he loves "clothes that are beautifully made." JOHN PEARSE: He has been tailoring his robust suits for the chic from his shop since the days of the 60's dandies. (Photographs by Steve Pyke/Network, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONDON (ENG) UNITED STATES (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); PAINTING (76%); FABRICS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); WRITERS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, JILL MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1993



205 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 27; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
Democrat Days In Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By Michael S. Malone; Michael S. Malone writes frequently about Silicon Valley from Los Altos, Calif.

DATELINE: LOS ALTOS, Calif.

 BODY:
WHEN President Clinton sat down for dinner with Silicon Valley chief executives recently at the California Cafe in Los Gatos, sitting on one side of him was John Sculley, chairman of Apple Computer.
That wasn't surprising. But on the other side of the President sat Regis McKenna, head of a locally based marketing firm. Although Mr. McKenna is a well-known figure in tech circles, his placement next to the new President was notable. So was the seating of David J. Barram, Apple's vice president of worldwide affairs and public policies, next to Vice President Gore at a nearby table. 
 For these two executives, as well as for a handful of the two dozen others in this largely Republican crowd, this dinner was a vindication. For years, these men and women had faced resentment and disapproval for their Democratic views. Mr. McKenna recalled that he was once warned "by a well-known company that I should cool it on my politics because it would really hurt me in business."
Now, with a young President wooing the Brahmins of Silicon Valley, these loyal Democrats enjoyed having old political opponents calling to beg for an invitation to dinner.
"I'm sure Regis and Dave don't want to talk about it," said Gloria Rose Ott, an investment banker who over the years has brought Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen; Senator Bob Kerry, Democrat of Nebraska, and Mr. Gore, among others, to town for fund raisers. "But my business is mostly international, so I can," said Ms. Ott, a lifelong Democrat. "Yeah, sure, it felt a little weird having all those Johnny-come-latelies there. But it's better to have people come to the table late than not at all."
The genesis of the Clinton visit dates back more than 15 years to a campaign for city council in the Silicon Valley city of Sunnyvale. A local progressive ticket, the Orchards, included Mr. McKenna's wife, Dianne McKenna, and Mr. Barram, both 33 years old and close friends. Mrs. McKenna won and is now a county supervisor.
Mr. Barram lost and returned to the computer industry, moving from Hewlett-Packard to the presidency of Silicon Graphics and then to Apple. His interest in politics never waned. From local planning commissions to state educational panels, Mr. Barram pursued his passion, and, with each Democratic Presidential candidate beginning with Jimmie Carter, he mailed off suggested campaign policy statements on high technology. "I never got a reply," he said.
But slowly, especially after electronics became America's largest manufacturing employer, Washington began to take notice of Silicon Valley. In 1987, while working with Mr. Sculley at the National Center on Education and the Economy, Mr. Barram met Hillary Rodham Clinton and through her the future President. So when Governor Clinton announced his candidacy, Mr. Barram dusted off the position paper he'd written for Michael Dukakis and gave it to Mrs. Clinton.
This time a candidate listened. At a breakfast meeting in San Jose, Mr. Clinton asked Mr. Barram for help in contacting the Silicon Valley leadership. Mr. Barram arranged a Saturday morning gathering. He invited 100 chief executive officers and got 40.
"My argument was that we complain in this valley that we don't get to participate in government -- and that here was a chance to do just that," he said.
Many of the attendees at this and subsequent meetings were long-time Republicans who came because they knew Mr. Barram. Among them were James G. Treybig, president and chief executive of Tandem Computer; E.R. McCracken, president and chief executive of Silicon Graphics; John A. Young, a director of Hewlett Packard, and Mr. Sculley.
Chuck Comiso, president of Link Technologies, a computer terminal maker, was a registered Democrat who had last voted for his party's Presidential candidate in 1960. But he was impressed with Mr. Clinton. "The part that really impressed me was that he was really a different kind of politician," he said. "He was so alert, in touch and technologically literate. He listened to us."
In May 1992, Mr. Barram took a leave of absence from Apple to focus on the campaign. He organized a gathering of chief executives at a hotel a few blocks from Apple, and they helped draft the candidate's technology policy. This same group gave a critical lift to the Clinton campaign soon thereafter when they walked out on stage before television cameras and announced their support.
It was not surprising, then, that when President Clinton returned to Silicon Valley in late February, it was Mr. Barram who organized the dinner -- and got the ride in Air Force One. Nor that Mr. McKenna, Ms. Ott and the loyal Clinton/Republican chief executives got their invitations. The only ones missing were the most unabashedly conservative chief executives.
Mr. McKenna says he was not surprised by the Valley's strong approval of Mr. Clinton, a 125,000-vote margin. "This valley was never as G.O.P. as it was made out to be," he said. "Instead, it's always focused on issues. With Clinton, we finally saw a candidate that combined a social conscience with a business perspective," he continued, adding, "I am excited about seeing the potential for Silicon Valley to help create policy changes."
Ms. Ott agrees. "We need to keep the process going," she said, to influence the White House's agenda.
Mr. Barram said: "People around here are politically in the middle. They support Clinton, but if they see him slipping off into liberalism, they could move right back to the Republican Party."
But for now, those concerns are minor compared with the afterglow of the triumphant dinner at the California Cafe. For Silicon Valley Democrats, the years in the wilderness are over.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; APPLE COMPUTER INC APPLE INC (85%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; APPLE COMPUTER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SILICON VALLEY (CALIF) UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MALONE, MICHAEL S; SCULLY, JOHN; BARRAM, DAVID J BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1993



206 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: The Twin Towers: The Suspect;
Bomb Suspect's Path to Piety and Elusive Dreams

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ZARQA, Jordan, March 7

 BODY:
In cramped, unheated rooms on the outskirts of Amman, the relatives of Mohammed A. Salameh, the man charged in the bombing of the World Trade Center, gathered today and pondered the magnitude of the crime and the infamy that has befallen their name.
"He went to the United States to get a job and make money," said Aysha Salameh, his mother, as she keened to and fro in a red vinyl chair and clutched a damp tissue. "He went to make something of himself, to speak English, to study, to have a future. And now they say that he did all this, that he did this bomb. No, no, no . . . " 
 The woman, besieged by neighbors and relatives who came to the home on a narrow dirt lane to express their support, stopped to gain her composure. As she pulled herself together all that was heard in the small room, crowded with men of the Salameh clan, was the ticking of a wall clock and the soft clink of the prayer beads that slowly circulated between the men's calloused fingers.
 
Refugee in Infancy
 "He was a gentle man," said a cousin, Ali Mohammed Salameh. "He would not commit such an act. He was not a person of violence."
Mohammed Salameh was arrested on Thursday and charged with helping in the attack that killed five people.
Mohammed Salameh's childhood, like those of many Palestinians of his generation, was rudely interrupted by war. Israeli troops occupied Biddiya, his village on the West Bank, three months before he was born. His father, Amin Salameh, a lieutenant in the Jordanian Army, packed his wife, five boys and six girls, and left with thousands of other Palestinians for Amman when the boy was two months old. The home and most of the possessions were left behind.
The infant did not know it, but he had become a refugee.
The family settled in the Palestinian slums here. Mr. Salameh grew up amid a mass of concrete hovels and dirt streets, where many Palestinians still live piled one on top of the other. To supplement the army pension, his father took a job for an import clearing house. But the family always lived just a few steps away from poverty.
The squalid streets of Zarqa seemed a long way from the idyllic world of Palestine, or at least that version of Palestine that was dished out to the brood of children. A color photograph of the Dome of the Rock, the Muslim holy site in Jerusalem, hangs prominently in the living room, as it does in many households here.
Zarqa offers what vices Jordan can serve up: cheap hashish, a few weapons and a trade in stolen goods. But Jordanian authorities say that neither Mr. Salameh nor his family had any record of being involved in the criminal activity that is endemic in the country's third-largest city, where those who have legitimate jobs work mining phosphate and potash.
The boy was not a good student and had trouble finishing school.
"He wanted to study law or engineering," his mother said, "but he was not accepted into these schools. He could only get into the Islamic law department at Jordan University, although he never finished his studies."
His mother handed over a picture of her son at school, dressed in a neat blue suit and bearded. "He became pious and prayed a lot," said his brother Ahmed. "He stayed only with friends who were religious. He gave up everything else for religion. He grew a beard."
 
'Not a Fanatic'
 But the family, which does not run a strict Islamic household, insists he steered clear of radical religious groups.
"He used to spend a lot of time in mosques, listening to the clerics," said a cousin. "We could see he was becoming very religious, but he was not a fanatic."
His religion, his family says, was only an example of his piety.
"I go to prayers," his father said, "but that does not make me a fundamentalist."
When Mr. Salameh was 19, he abandoned his studies and tried to find a job.
"He looked and looked," his mother said, "but there was nothing."
Against his parents' objections he announced he was leaving Jordan for the United States. His departure six years ago was the last time he saw any members of his immediate family.
 
Rough Times in New York
 Two years after he left Jordan, his father finished building a small house, with four bedrooms, where they now live.
"He had so many dreams then," his mother said, "of a job, of money. He told us how he was going to help us."
But the streets of New York apparently did not embrace the young Arab with much more enthusiasm than those he had left at home. He took a few menial jobs, but after four months was destitute, the family said. He turned, for the first and only time, to his one relative in New York, a doctor, and asked for a $400 loan. But his relative, who had emigrated to the United States 20 years before, turned him down.
The refusal to aid a member of the family, so foreign a concept in the culture he had left behind, seemed, according to his parents, to have steeled in him a hatred for the callousness of the society he had entered.
"It was unemployment and poverty that drove him to the United States," said his mother, "and it was unemployment and poverty he found when he got there. This was very bitter."
For a while he stocked shelves in a supermarket for below minimum wage -- his parents were unsure where.
"But one day he came to work and they had replaced him," his mother said. "I remember him telling us this story, and he was out on the street again."
The young man seemed to begin drifting into a world his parents did not know. Jobs and addresses became vague. They say they were often unsure about his work and his contacts. But nearly every month he called home, asked a few questions about his brothers and sisters and assured everyone he was well. Small money orders intermittently reached the house.
"He sent us about $4,000 during all the time he was in the United States," his mother said. "I guess that's not much, but he tried so hard. He never asked us for anything. He always wanted to help."
The last phone call came in January. It was, the family said, the usual brief exchange of pleasantries, all parties acutely conscious of the meter ticking away the charge on the international line. In the conversation he mentioned a woman and there seemed in the air to be the prospect of marriage.
The call was taken at the neighbor's house, as the family has no phone of their own.
The next time his parents heard of Mr. Salameh he was in the news. After hearing of the arrest, the family said, Mr. Salameh's father went to Jordanian security officials to ask whether they had any information, but they said they had none.
For these Palestinians -- each pushed unjustly, they believed, from their homes on the West Bank after the 1967 war, and some pushed again out of Kuwait after the Persian Gulf war -- there is only one group capable of bringing this latest disaster into their lives.
"The Jews," Mrs. Salameh uttered with a vehemence that shattered the calm that had descended on the room. "This is from the Jews, who have done this and blamed my son. You will see that he is innocent."
Heads nodded in support. Men, to ward off the cold of the night air, pulled their brown, wool cloaks closer over their legs. And the mother turned to the only American in the room.
"Will they let him pray in jail?" she asked, "Or in this great democracy is this forbidden? I hear they do not let him practice his religion, that conditions are very bad in jail."
"My son," said his mother, leaning forward until her pale gray eyes were inches away, "is being persecuted."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mohammed A. Salameh's mother, Aysha Salameh, said yesterday that her son could not have committed the crime he is charged with. (Agence France-Presse); He is shown in a September 1992 photo. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Map of Jordan showing location of Zarka. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JORDAN (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JORDAN; NEW YORK CITY; WEST BANK; MIDDLE EAST ; JORDAN; ISRAEL JORDAN (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PALESTINIANS; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; EXPLOSIONS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOMBINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); CANNABIS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (74%); REFUGEES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (72%); RELIGION (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; SALAMEH, MOHAMMED A TZIPORA LIVNI (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



207 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Suburban Superstores Come To New York City Shoppers

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Some of the nation's largest discount retailers -- the cavernous department stores, warehouse clubs and super supermarkets that for decades have shaped the shopping landscape of America's suburbs and small towns -- are coming to New York City.
With the price of the city's real estate falling and the appetite for variety and value growing, these discounters are now discovering that New York, like other big cities, represents the last untapped frontier for their low-margin, high-volume wares: more than seven million consumers and such a dearth of these stores that many New Yorkers drive to the suburbs to find them. 
 A handful have already opened in the city -- from the Kmart in Queens to the Finast in Brooklyn to the Bed, Bath and Beyond in Manhattan. The Home Depot and Caldor's have bought sites. And almost a dozen more -- including Pathmark, Wal-mart, Waldbaum's, the Price Club and BJ's Wholesale Club -- are mounting increasingly aggressive searches for space, particularly in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx.
"It's an awareness of the awesome potential that exists," said Charles E. Lotzar, an executive with the Kmart Corporation, which wants to open more stores in the city, including its subsidiary superstores, Pace, Sports Authority and Border Books. "There's really no other place like it."
Desperate to fill the employment void left by the decline of manufacturing and the closing of some of the city's traditional department stores, the city's economic officials have eagerly welcomed the discounters that for years stayed away because of high costs. Now, in an effort to attract more, the Department of City Planning has proposed changes in zoning policies that some retailers and officials say have helped keep them out.
The arrival of these stores -- familiar sights along the nation's highways and boulevards, with their huge signs and sprawling parking lots -- could profoundly change the city, its neighborhoods and the sometimes idiosyncratic way that New Yorkers shop.
While officials and the retailers themselves say the stores will create thousands of jobs and raise millions of dollars in taxes, others warn that an unchecked proliferation will do to New York what it has done to other cities and towns. They darkly predict that the stores, with their high volume and low margins, will undercut and destroy the local merchants that have given the city's many Main Streets their singular character.
"We have to tread very carefully," said Bernd Zimmermann, the director of planning for the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer. "It's time the city addresses the flight of buying power to the suburbs, but there is a hefty amount of fear among small retailers that the market will be drawn out from under them. That has to be addressed, too."
 
Glut of Retail Space
 There was a time, in the early 1960's, when New York City was the retail center of the metropolitan region, accounting for nearly 50 percent of all retail sales. But as the retailers followed the flight of the middle class from cities to the suburbs, creating shopping hubs designed for the car, the city has watched many of its department stores close: Alexander's, Gimbels, B. Altman, May's, Ohrbach's, E. J. Korvette.
The closings have now created a glut of vacant retail space -- seven million square feet in Manhattan alone -- driving down prices by as much as $10 to $20 a square foot in Manhattan, where prices can vary from $40 to $50 a square foot, according to Charles Aug of Garrick Aug Associates Store Leasing Inc., who is doing searches for several discounters he declined to identify.
Now brokers and city officials say the dual effects of the lower rents and the void left by the closings has finally made the city attractive to the discounters. And after decades in which retailers, shoppers and money flowed to the suburbs, the arriving stores might reverse the flow.
"My belief is that we are watching the gradual re-entry into the city of the businesses that went to the suburbs in the post-World War II market," said Barry F. Sullivan, the Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development. "That market is relatively saturated. Now they're looking for ways to begin to come back in."
One indication of the interest was the remarkable bidding war between two regional chains -- the Caldor Corporation and Bradlees Inc. -- to buy six of the department stores left vacant by the collapse of Alexander's last year. As Alexander's wallowed in bankruptcy, Bradlees offered $82 million to buy the six stores -- two in the Bronx, two in Queens and one each in Yonkers and Valley Stream, L.I.
 
Bidding War
 Caldor, one of the largest discounters in the Northeast, countered with its own offer, said to have been at least $5 million more. The bidding culminated last November, when the two companies clashed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, raising their bids 23 times in a single day, usually in increments of $1 million, until Caldor won with a bid of $120 million.
Caldor, which opened its first store in the city in Queens in 1990 and another on Staten Island in 1991, expects to open five of the six stores soon, possibly by the end of the year, with some 250 jobs in each. The other, in Yonkers, it leased to Bradlees.
"We were disappointed at the way it worked out," said Coleman Nee, a spokesman for Bradlees, a chain of 127 stores based in Braintree, Mass. "It doesn't mean we're not going to keep trying."
In addition to the discounters that have opened or hope to move into the city for the first time, others want to expand, opening larger stores, including Toys 'R' Us and Kmart, which has two smaller stores on Staten Island.
The Home Depot, the behemoth home improvement chain based in Atlanta, has bought a swath of land at the Aqueduct Race Track near Kennedy International Airport and has agreed to buy the closed Taystee Bakery plant in Flushing, Queens.
 
In Pursuit of Customers
 The chain has many stores in the region, particularly on Long Island and in New Jersey. As they crept closer to the city, opening stores in Paramus, N.J., in late 1990 and in Elmont, L.I., the next year, the managers noticed that many of their customers came from the city.
The company is now searching for more, especially in Brooklyn, said Larry Mercer, the president of the Northeast division.
The city's appetite for such stores certainly appears enormous. While Nassau County has one retailer with more than 100 workers for every 8,500 people, for example, the city overall has one for every 20,000.
Obstacles remain for the large retailers, though. The price of land remains expensive compared with the rest of the region and nation and the large parcels (usually at least 10 acres) that the stores desire are hard to come by.
Clearing such obstacles is a primary goal of the city's proposal to ease the zoning restrictions in some light and medium manufacturing zones, including areas left vacant by the decline of manufacturing in the city.
The city's zoning policy allows large retailers, like Macy's, in some areas, like 34th Street, but it also includes restrictions that require a developer to obtain a variance to build a store larger than 10,000 square feet in many commercial and manufacturing areas -- a process that can take years.
The proposal, which is subject to approval by the City Council, would allow stores up to 100,000 feet to move into these zones without the variance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Large discount retailers, like Bed, Bath and Beyond on West 19th Street, are coming to New York City. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (91%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (91%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (91%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (56%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (56%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (91%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (91%); KMART CORP (84%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ZONING DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (93%); RETAILERS (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); ZONING (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



208 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Alliance, Clinton Courts the Congress Nonstop

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
Senator James M. Jeffords, a Republican from Vermont, was sitting in a hotel room in Damascus, Syria, one evening last month when President Clinton called to thank him for voting for the family leave bill.
"It was unbelievable," Mr. Jeffords said. "No one would believe that the President would call me in Damascus. No matter how long we've been around the Hill, there's nothing more exciting than a call from the President." 
 That Mr. Clinton would call a Republican halfway around the world on a matter that had already been settled is but one example of Mr. Clinton's strategy of stroking Democratic and Republican lawmakers more intensely than any President in nearly three decades. His near daily meetings with Congress members and frequent excursions to Capitol Hill suggest almost a parliamentary-style Government, where the President works in tandem with legislators.
By his nature, Mr. Clinton relishes the give-and-take of debating the intricacies of policy with a wide range of people, and as Governor of Arkansas he was known for practically camping out at the State Legislature. "Legislators used to hide from him because they thought he was going to talk them into something they didn't want to do," recalled Senator Dale Bumpers, Democrat of Arkansas. "He's a very persuasive lobbyist."
 
Pushing for Economic Plan
 But Mr. Clinton is also pursuing an energetic strategy of winning over lawmakers through personal contacts, with the most immediate goal of gaining support for an economic program that confronts some lawmakers with their most difficult votes in years.
Mr. Jeffords, a moderate whom White House officials have identified as a possible ally on many issues, acknowledged that the call made him more inclined to support the economic program. "It doesn't hurt," he replied.
Courting Congress is nothing new for a President, of course. President Lyndon B. Johnson was a master at it, although he was partial to intimidation. Even President George Bush made overtures to the Democrats on Capitol Hill early in his term.
But for Mr. Clinton, the massaging of Congressional egos is virtually nonstop. He invites even Republicans to travel with him aboard Air Force One. During an unusual visit to Capitol Hill to meet just with Republicans this week, Mr. Clinton called many of them by their first names. He has asked Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the Democratic whip, to compile a list of members whom he could invite to go jogging with him.
Though he has proved to be a chummy suitor, Mr. Clinton has also sent a clear signal that he will strike back when spurned. The day after Mr. Clinton announced his budget package to a joint session of Congress, Vice President Al Gore sought to sell the plan by visiting lawmakers. But he was embarrassed at a meeting in Senator Richard C. Shelby's office when, as the cameras rolled, the Alabama Democrat publicly complained that the proposal was "high on taxes and low on cuts."
 
Rebuttal Is Swift
 The response from the White House was swift and unapologetic: officials said they would move from Alabama to Texas the management team for a space shuttle contract, a loss of 90 jobs for Mr. Shelby's state. "We tolerate dissension here," said one Administration official familiar with the episode. "But he embarrassed the Veep on national television instead of speaking to us privately."
The extraordinary contacts with lawmakers are the political equivalent of preventive maintenance: Mr. Clinton wants to lay the groundwork to win support in the future. But White House officials said the efforts seem to be paying off already. "How many Democrats attacked any portion of the President's plan in the first two weeks?" asked George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director. "Very, very few. Part of the reason they're happy to have one of their own in the White House is because he's working with them."
So close are the ties between the White House and Congress that at times it can be hard to figure out who is working for whom. Mr. Stephanopoulos and David Dreyer, one of his deputies, have begun what are expected to become weekly skull sessions to plot legislative strategy with Mr. Bonior and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader. It is almost as if Mr. Stephanopoulos and Mr. Dreyer never switched jobs; before the campaign they were top aides to Mr. Gephardt, and now they are back meeting in his office.
In another effort to reward or woo House members, next week Mr. Clinton is to take the first of a series of trips to specific Congressional districts.
Though they have yet to be tested through critical floor votes, Mr. Clinton's efforts are clearly scoring political points. Saying he did not want to be "too fawning," Representative Jay R. Inslee, a newly elected Democrat from Washington State, spoke of his three meetings with the President thus far, including a cross-country trip on Air Force One. "Pretty extraordinary access for a freshman from Selah, Washington," he said.
 
Johnson as Role Model
 Another newly elected Democrat, Representative Eric D. Fingerhut of Ohio, trumpeted a brief session he and other colleagues had with Mr. Clinton in a press release with the headline, "Fingerhut meets with President at the White House."
Howard Paster, Mr. Clinton's chief Congressional liaison, said that he had followed elements of the model of President Johnson, who staked his legislative strategy on cajoling, even browbeating, members. Though less heavy-handed, Mr. Clinton's approach is no less aggressive.
"There is an intimacy between the President and Congress that we have not seen in some time," said Mr. Paster, 48, who was head of Hill & Knowlton's Washington office and was once a lobbyist for the United Automobile Workers. "There is a mind-set that these are our friends and that we need to recognize that."
It is a far cry from the last Democrat in the White House, Jimmy Carter, who was viewed even by Democrats as contemptuous of Congress, and from Presidents Bush and Ronald Reagan, who made limited efforts to work with chambers dominated by Democrats.
"Between Johnson and Carter you could kind of see Clinton as a middle ground," said Richard F. Fenno Jr., a political scientist at the University of Rochester. "It's not as impatient and in your face as L.B.J., but it's not as arrogant as Carter," he said, adding, "He's going to need their help, and sometimes personal relationships are more important than ideology."
Another difference is that unlike Mr. Johnson, Mr. Clinton was never a leader in Congress who dispensed favors that he could later demand be returned. "It was Lyndon Johnson that would say, you know, 'Lyndon's done a few things for you; now you're going to do a few things for old Lyndon,' " recalled Representative Dan Rostenkowski, Democrat of Illinois. "And that's exactly the way he approached it, and twisted our arms and got a bill out."
Suggesting that winning support in Congress might not be as easy for Mr. Clinton, and specifically citing the President's plan for national health insurance, Mr. Rostenkowski added, "This is a challenge for this young man as President of the United States."
Mr. Clinton has sought to compensate for the fact that he never served in Congress by surrounding himself with veterans of Capitol Hill.
Mr. Clinton frequently dispatches Mr. Gore, a former Senator from Tennessee, to smooth over problems in Congress, and he has stocked his Cabinet with veterans who are deeply wired on Capitol Hill. Lloyd Bentsen, the Treasury Secretary, was chairman of the Senate Finance Committee; Leon E. Panetta, the Budget Director, was chairman of the House Budget Committee, and Les Aspin, the Defense Secretary, was chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
 
Fortunes Tied to Congress
 Mr. Clinton's pitch is that Congress can rise or fall with him. It is a message that seems to be resonating with Democrats who say they feel pressure to help keep their party's hold on the White House and are only encouraged by Mr. Clinton's entreaties.
"He said, 'We're all in this together,' " Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, quoted Mr. Clinton as telling Democratic Senators recently. "He acknowledged there have been and will be controversies, but he struck a nice balance between being personable and standing his ground."
For all the attention that the Clinton White House is lavishing on lawmakers, some have felt snubbed. In the first days he was in office, critics said he could have avoided some controversies -- over his plan to lift the ban on homosexuals in the military and the scuttled nomination of Zoe Baird for Attorney General -- if he had consulted crucial Senators.
More recently, Robert H. Michel, the House Republican leader, said Mr. Gore had apologized to members this week for that fact that "none of us on the Republican side in the leadership were given any kind of heads up" on the air drops in Bosnia.
Mr. Paster defends the Administration, saying, "The problem with Congressional relations is that with every good intention, at the end of the day you can't accommodate all the requests that you get."
Other Administration officials said they feared that the period of good will between the White House and the Congress will, by nature, be short lived. Some lawmakers are skeptical as well.
"This is the first effort out of the White House to reach out to Republicans," Senator Daniel R. Coats, an Indiana Republican, said after sharing Big Macs with the President on Capitol Hill this week. "And it may be pure P. R. Time will tell."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton has been meeting with members of Congress almost daily. He and Vice President Al Gore spoke with Robert H. Michel, center, the House Republican leader, at the Capitol. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); "There is an intimacy between the President and Congress that we have not seen in some time," said Howard Paster, President Clinton's chief Congressional liaison. "There is a mind-set that these are our friends and that we need to recognize that." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNORS (77%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICS (73%); FAMILY LEAVE (72%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



209 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Executive Brief: THE COMMERCE DEPARTMENT;
Reason to Smile Again: Clinton Industrial Policy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7

 BODY:
During the Bush years, Commerce Department officials liked to quip that they were working for an industrial-policy agency in an Administration that did not believe in industrial policy.
The Clinton Administration, which does believe in industrial policy, is beginning to flex the department's atrophied muscles. While plans to spend more on commercial research and promoting exports have alarmed opponents of government intervention in the marketplace, they have sent morale at the agency soaring. 
 The most spectacular of the proposed changes is a plan to expand the department's advanced technology program. The former Commerce Secretary, Robert A. Mosbacher, fought hard to establish the program. But in the end industrial-policy opponents in the Bush Administration made sure it got only a tiny budget.
The program is the source of grants of up to $2 million to companies for research and development. President Clinton has proposed increasing its $68 million budget to $758 million by 1997.
 
Washington Does MITI
 That kind of activism -- and aggressive spending -- might seem a comfortable fit with Democratic Party traditions. But parts of the Clinton Administration's industrial-policy plan also seem to be modeled on a popular whipping boy of the Democrats: Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, the oft-bashed MITI.
Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown insisted at a press conference on Friday that his plans to develop a closer partnership between the Commerce Department and American business were home grown, but another Clinton Administration official admitted that studies of MITI had been influential.
Daniel J. Mitchell, an economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation and a critic of industrial policies, said Democrats had exaggerated MITI's wisdom and power. "It's not nearly what they made it out to be," he said, pointing out that the ministry once tried to discourage Honda from entering the auto industry.
 
Little Things Count
 Some budget battles are fought over large sums of money. Others are fought over who gets to spend money, sometimes even piddling sums.
Candidate Clinton's pledge of increased Government spending to promote technology made it relatively easy for Mr. Brown to win a lot more money in President Clinton's supplemental budget. By contrast, he found himself with a fight on his hands over a paltry $12 million.
Last year, Congress authorized the Agency for International Development to transfer "up to $12 million" to Commerce to set up 13 offices in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Belarus. The offices were to provide secretaries, telephones, translators and marketing advice to American companies trying to do business in those countries.
But A.I.D., which is coordinating aid to the former Soviet republics, initially offered Commerce only half the money, contending that it needed the rest for other programs. Mr. Brown personally intervened with A.I.D. officials and insisted that all the money be transferred. On Friday, he announced that his department would be setting up the offices.
 
Happy Days Are There Again
 Morale among the Department's 30,000 civil servants, severely deflated by years of Republican criticisms of industrial policy, has improved remarkably in recent weeks.
"No matter what you may think of the Democrats, they listen to what you say," one career officer marveled. "They're nice. They take your advice."
But political philosophy and policy manifestoes are not the only things on which the department's morale has turned. For many years, for example, a Commerce Department guard made sure that only the Secretary, top political aides and the Secretary's visitors used the only elegant entrance to the hulking, utilitarian Commerce Building, which covers two city blocks across from the Washington Monument.
The entrance, which sports a bright red awning that runs to the street, was restricted even though it led to one of the department's main corridors and provided no special access to the Secretary's suite on the fifth floor.
Mr. Brown opened the entrance to general use immediately after taking office. In the spirit of President Clinton's budget-cutting efforts, the awning remains; it would cost money to remove, explained James P. Desler, a Commerce Department spokesman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT H BROWN LTD (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC PLANNING; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (98%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT PROMOTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



210 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Plunging interest rates are putting money into the pockets of millions of Americans and many corporations. And so far they have been using this new-found cash mostly to reduce their debts, behaving with much more wariness than in the past. [Page D1.]
President Clinton has chosen Joseph E. Stiglitz to be the third member of the Council of Economic Advisers, Administration officials say. Many economists view the highly regarded Stanford University professor as an odds-on favorite to win a Nobel Memorial Prize at some point in his career. [D1.] 

International
Japanese consumers have a test case of how committed the Government is to protecting their rights. The Japanese recently learned that they have not been receiving warnings about a potential link between video games and a form of epilepsy that Nintendo was including in games for the U.S. and Europe. News of the missing warning has given fresh impetus to efforts to revise consumer protection laws. [A1.]
The collapse of the industrial machine of what was East Germany seems certain to weigh on the entire German economy, and all of Europe, for much of this decade. [D1.] Dietmar and Birgit Stengel seem to have done all right under German unification, yet they describe their current existence as a "hell" of lost jobs, growing anxiety and a financial squeeze. [D3.]
 
Companies
Some of the nation's largest discount retailers are coming to New York City, having discovered that big cities represent the last untapped frontier for low-margin, high-volume wares. [A1.]
 Compaq intends to announce several desktop and notebook-size computers today, each with more features, and in some cases at lower prices, than previous models. [D1.]
A group of music retailers has endorsed an electronic anti-shoplifting system, settling an occasionally nasty contest between the makers of two systems. [D4.]
 
The Media Business
In the two years since he took over Random House Trade Publishing, Harold Evans, who built his career at The Sunday Times of London, has made a seemingly successful transition. [D1.]
"Beakman's World" and other informational shows got a boost from the F.C.C. when the agency signaled last week that it would get tougher about enforcing the Children's Television Act of 1990. [D7.]
Everything about Sunset Boulevard billboards is oversized, from their dimensions to their prices to the entertainment industry egos that they are intended to massage. [D7.]
If John Hendricks has his way, you'll pick whatever television program you want to see, whenever you want to see it. The Discovery Channel's creator calls it Your Choice TV, and it can be summed up as video on demand. Bill Carter: Television. [D7.]
Want to star in an advertising campaign? With customers seeming more skeptical about marketing claims, more companies are turning to testimonials from ordinary people. Advertising. [D8.]

Today's Columns
Surprisingly strong employment gains knocked out one of the four legs supporting a rally in the long end of the bond market: signs of continuing economic weakness. That does not mean that the rally has to falter, although other factors will be under more scrutiny. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]
Rollerblade Inc. has received its 16th U.S. patent, among more than 100 issued and pending worldwide. It has also begun an aggressive enforcement campaign. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
Investors looking to capitalize on bullish conditions for tax-exempt municipal bonds might consider companies that insure and reinsure bonds for states and municipalities. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (56%); DISCA (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (56%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (51%); DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); RETAILERS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (74%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); TOYS & GAMES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); SHOPLIFTING (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (69%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); EPILEPSY (54%); PUBLISHING (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



211 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Florida Officials Scramble to Save Air Base Damaged by Hurricane

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7

 BODY:
Once a driving force in South Florida, Homestead Air Force Base has been closed since Hurricane Andrew damaged or destroyed most of its buildings last August. Now it is on a list of military bases facing closings, and Florida lawmakers are making one last major effort to bring it back to life.
Senator Bob Graham met on Friday with Pentagon officials to discuss the plan to close the base and ways to include Florida's Congressional delegation and members of the public in the military's discussions, an aide to the Senator, Samuel R. Shorstein, said today. Mr. Shorstein said that Mr. Graham hoped that the base would be rebuilt. 
 The base, where 8,400 civilian and military personnel worked, pumped $450 million a year into the local economy.
 
Support From Cisneros
 Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, noted on Friday that the area served by the base had a large immigrant population from Haiti, Mexico and Central America as well as low-income white and black Americans dependent on blue-collar and agricultural industries. He said that the area could degenerate into "a vast tangle of poor communities, uncoordinated and haphazardly constructed" and that he had made some recommendations to President Clinton about the future of the base.
Mr. Cisneros subsequently confirmed a report in The Miami Herald that said he had recommended that if the base was not reopened for military use, it be used for the Customs Service, the Drug Enforcement Administration or reserve units.
Last Friday the Pentagon agreed to release $76 million for partial reconstruction to allow the Customs and drug agencies and Air Force reserve units to use the base.
The fate of the base became an issue in last fall's Presidential campaign. President George Bush promised to rebuild the base at a cost of $480 million. But the Senate Appropriations Committee rejected Mr. Bush's proposal.
And Bill Clinton strongly suggested that if elected, he would rebuild and reopen Homestead. But in a nationally televised town meeting last month, President Clinton made no promises about Homestead's fate, saying he would go along with the commission's decision. Still, Mr. Clinton called the base an "invaluable asset" and promised to find a nonmilitary use for the installation.
He is expected to make a policy speech this week addressing the South Florida relief effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); HAITI (79%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA); AIR FORCES; HURRICANE ANDREW; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ARMED FORCES (95%); AIR FORCES (91%); HURRICANES (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); CITIES (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (64%); AGRICULTURE (52%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



212 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: White House Completes Its Team of Economists

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7

 BODY:
President Clinton has chosen Joseph E. Stiglitz, a highly regarded Stanford University economics professor, to be the third and final member of the Council of Economic Advisers, Administration officials said this weekend.
Several economists said it was quite a coup for Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the council's chairwoman, to land Mr. Stiglitz, who in the view of many experts is an odds-on favorite to win a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics at some point in his career for his research into the effect of imperfect or incomplete information on the functioning of markets and economies.
 
'A Restless Researcher'
 "We call him Jumping Joe," said Rudiger Dornbusch, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "He's a restless researcher and teacher. In terms of professional reputation, I think he's the most distinguished young economist out there." 
 Mr. Stiglitz, 50, is scheduled to begin work in Washington on Monday, officials said, although Senate confirmation hearings on his nomination are not expected for several more weeks.
The council provides the President with a broad range of economic advice, helping formulate economic policy and assessing hundreds of proposals in terms of their economic benefits and costs.
Administration officials said that while Ms. Tyson oversaw the council's activities, Mr. Stiglitz would concentrate on microeconomic areas, like banking and securities regulation and trade matters. The other member of the council, Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist, will focus on macroeconomic matters, like taxes and economic forecasts.
During the last two decades, Mr. Stiglitz has developed a reputation as one of the nation's leading economic theoreticians, doing work on public finance, labor markets, credit and the economics of the developing world.
When President Clinton appointed Ms. Tyson to head the council in December, many economists wondered how influential the panel would be because she is not considered one of the nation's leading macroeconomists. By enlisting Mr. Stiglitz and Mr. Blinder, Ms. Tyson would seem to have defused such criticism.
Indeed, some economists say that few other councils have had as much intellectual firepower as the one Ms. Tyson will head. Comparisons are already being drawn between it and the council under President John F. Kennedy, headed by Walter Heller, which included James A. Tobin, who later won a Nobel Prize.
Mr. Stiglitz said he would not grant an interview until after he was confirmed. But he has told friends that he was attracted to the job because he wanted a change of pace from academia and also wanted to contribute to improving the nation's economy.
Mr. Stiglitz, a graduate of Amherst College, obtained his doctorate in 1967 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he studied under Paul Samuelson and Robert Solow, both of whom are Nobel laureates in economics. Like Mr. Samuelson, Mr. Stiglitz comes from Gary, Ind.
The two other members of the current Council of Economic Advisers -- Ms. Tyson and Mr. Blinder -- also hold doctorates in economics from M.I.T.
Mr. Stiglitz began his teaching career at M.I.T. in 1966 while still a doctoral student and left the next year to teach at Yale, where he became a full professor at the age of 26. He went to Stanford in 1974 and then joined the faculty at Oxford Univeristy in 1976. In 1979, he took a teaching position at Princeton, and in 1988, he rejoined the Stanford faculty.
In 1979, he won the John Bates Clark Award, which is given every two years by the American Economic Association to honor the nation's best economist under the age of 40.
 
Effects of Incomplete Information
 He has theorized that because employers do not have complete information about the people they hire, they often offer above-average wages so they can attract a large pool of applicants from which to choose. He has argued that one reason for unemployment is that these wage levels cause employers to hire fewer people than they otherwise would.
His work has also indicated that because bankers have only imperfect or incomplete information about potential borrowers, they tend to restrict their loans more than market forces might dictate. He argues that as a result of incomplete information, bankers often restrict loan size and exclude certain groups from consideration for loans.
Mr. Stiglitz is also known for helping develop economic models to examine international trade and technological competition. He has also done work on the economic returns of education. He wrote his dissertation on relationships between economic growth and income distribution.
"Joe is one of the great economic theorists of the last 20 years," said Paul Krugman, an economics professor at M.I.T. "Aside from trying to save the world, he is going to Washington because he is looking for an interesting new experience."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph E. Stiglitz. (W. W. Norton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: GARY, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (71%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (65%); SECURITIES LAW (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STIGLITZ, JOSEPH (PROF) BILL CLINTON (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



213 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

BOMB SUSPECT'S PATH TO THE PRESENT
The suspect in the World Trade Center bombing had a childhood common among Palestinians: rudely interrupted by war. At two months old, Mohammed A. Salameh became a refugee. A1.
 
Relatives who still live in the town where the suspect was born say they are shocked by the charges against him. B4. 

Islamic fundamentalism is a term that both illuminates and obscures the complex realities of militant religious movements. B4.
 
INVESTIGATORS SEARCH NEW LOCATIONS
Seeking new evidence to explain the role that Mohammed A. Salameh may have played in the explosion, investigators said they were mounting searches of several new locations and analyzing fingerprints lifted from a warehouse and two residences in Jersey City. B4.
 
INTRICATE PLANNING DRIVES REPAIRS
At the World Trade Center, an intricate management technique called the "critical path method" is guiding the enormous repair job. B5.
 
Many of the companies displaced by the bombing are finding space for rates as low as $15 a square foot a year, or roughly direct operating costs for many office buildings. B6.
 
The instability of the World Trade Center's garage is hampering investigators as well as delaying the search for a man missing since the blast. B6.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
SUPERSTORES EXPLORE THE LAST FRONTIER
Some of the nation's largest discount retailers -- the cavernous department stores, warehouse clubs and super supermarkets that for decades have shaped the shopping landscape of America's suburbs and small towns -- are coming to New York City. With the price of the city's real estate falling and the appetite for variety and value growing, these discounters are now discovering that New York, like other big cities, represents the last untapped frontier for their low-margin, high-volume wares. A1.
 
KMART DOES NOT PLEASE EVERYONE
To some, the new Kmart in Fresh Meadows, Queens, has been a source of hope, a magnet for shoppers that promises to energize the surrounding area of 60 stores, restaurants and boutiques. Others, however, say it has quickened the pace and spoiled the area, long considered a leisurely pocket of sidewalk benches, small stores and trendy shops. B2.
 
LAWMAKERS TO CONFRONT TRANSIT REPAIR
Hearings on a proposed 25-cent increase in subway and bus fares are expected to draw a crowd of riders. But a more serious issue before legislators is a five-year rebuilding program that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority says is necessary to keep the subways safe. B3.
 
AN IRISH VIEW OF THE PARADE RIFT
Paul O'Dwyer, the elder statesman and conscience of many Irish-Americans, understands the depth of the conflict surrounding the St. Patrick's Day parade. "There're certain things," he says, "that are just not reconcilable." Metro Matters. B3.
 
REGION
 
A LONG TRADITION OF SUCCESS
For reasons of history, culture and precedent, Connecticut has become a sort of breeding ground for women in public life, from town government on up to the State Legislature in Hartford, which is 25 percent female, compared with 16 percent in New York, 12.5 percent in New Jersey and 20 percent nationally. B7.
 
MORE TO ECONOMICS THAN MATH
If the New York State Council on Economic Education has its say, sixth graders -- and their teachers -- will know that there is a lot more to economics than understanding math. B7.
 
CUOMO DROPS MEDICAID PROPOSAL
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said that he was rescinding a budget proposal that would have forced New Yorkers to spend more of their assets before a spouse could qualify for Medicaid reimbursement for nursing home costs. B7.
 
Chronicle B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAILERS (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FINGERPRINTING (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RELIGION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); REFUGEES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); MISSING PERSONS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



214 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Japan Debates Broader Power for Consumers

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 7

 BODY:
Japanese consumers now have a test case of just how committed the Government is to protecting their rights.
Amid recent reports that playing video games can cause seizures in children with a particular type of epilepsy, the Japanese learned that they have not been receiving the warnings that Nintendo, the Japanese video game giant, has been including in games it sells in the United States and Europe. 
 Nintendo explained that the warnings were necessary to protect itself from lawsuits in the United States and Europe, but that in Japan such lawsuits were extremely rare. Indeed, there have been only about 150 court decisions in product-liability cases here since the end of World War II.
 
Tilt Toward Producers
 News of the missing warning has given fresh impetus to efforts to revise consumer protection laws, particularly to make it easier for customers to sue manufacturers when they are injured by defective products. Japan's orientation toward producers, often at the expense of citizens, has contributed to the trade surplus of Japan and an image abroad that it is interested solely in business.
But business groups here are resisting attempts to strengthen the product-liability system, fearing it could become a drain on competitiveness like the American system is often said to be.
Businessmen recoil in horror at the thought of huge class-action lawsuits and substantial payments, like the $105 million that a jury recently ordered the General Motors Corporation to pay the family of a teen-ager who died in the fiery crash of a G.M. pickup truck. If anything, they say -- and many Americans agree -- it is the American system that needs an overhaul.
"I believe that Japan needs to adopt an American-style product-liability system about as much as the United States needs to adopt a Soviet-style food distribution system," Robert C. Weber, a Cleveland lawyer, wrote in the latest issue of the Journal of Japanese Trade and Industry.
Last year, an advisory committee to the Prime Minister discussed a new product-liability law, but then tabled the matter until this year after an agreement could not be reached. One concern was that innovation could be retarded if companies were held liable for problems that could not be predicted at the time a product was developed.
 
Few Termed Dissatisfied
 "At this moment, there is no consensus about whether to introduce product-liability regulation in Japan," said Hiroshi Ogawa, director of the division of consumer affairs at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which has set up its own advisory panel to consider the issue. "Only a small percentage of people are dissatisfied" with the current system, he said.
Mr. Ogawa said more effective and less costly consumer protection might be achieved not by encouraging lawsuits, but by tightening safety regulations and setting up funds to provide compensation to consumers. Japan already has such funds for drugs and for household products. The trade ministry is considering forming a new system for settling product-liability grievances out of court.
Others have long noted that the Japanese, who generally seek to avoid confrontation, do not like to sue. In the crash of a Japan Airlines Boeing 747 in 1985, the relatives of all 13 non-Japanese victims sued. But there were only 21 lawsuits representing fewer than 100 of the more than 500 Japanese victims.
But critics say there are so few product-liability lawsuits because consumers are powerless. "We don't have any rights at all," said Yoko Tomiyama, chairwoman of the Consumers Union of Japan.
They also argue that the existing compensation mechanisms are inadequate. To win a product-liability lawsuit in Japan, a consumer must prove that the manufacturer was negligent in designing or manufacturing the product, which often requires knowledge of the manufacturer's intentions or procedures. In the United States, a consumer in many cases merely needs to show that the product was defective and that the defect caused the accident or sickness, a standard known as strict liability.
The European Community also uses strict liability, but imposes restrictions that make it more difficult to file lawsuits and obtain large damage awards than it is in the United States.
In one case cited by lawyers who favor changing Japanese law, an apartment resident died because of incomplete combustion of a gas boiler. The police found that if the boiler was used for two hours on a windy day, carbon monoxide levels in an apartment would build to a lethal level. Nevertheless, the court ruled against the plaintiff in 1988, saying that the exact cause of the incomplete combustion was not known and therefore it could not be determined whether the manufacturer had been negligent.
There are other obstacles to such lawsuits in Japan. For one thing, there are only about 15,000 lawyers, compared with more than 700,000 in the United States. Moreover, in contrast to their American counterparts, Japanese lawyers will not take a case without advance payment, in hopes of winning a percentage of damages.
Court filing fees, which vary with the amount of damages sought, are also high. Filing a lawsuit seeking damages of 100 million yen, or about $800,000, costs 400,000 yen, or $3,200.
Even if someone gets to court, it is difficult to win. Japan's court system does not allow discovery, the process by which one side can request documents from the other after a suit is filed. So plaintiffs have to gather their evidence before filing suit.
Also, trials here do not use juries, which in the United States are often moved to make big awards. In Japan there are no punitive damages, only awards to compensate consumers. In the recent General Motors case, $101 million of the $105 million award consisted of punitive damages.
 
Several Proposals
 Several product-liability laws have been proposed here by consumer groups, a committee of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations and two minority parties. Generally, the proposals would change Japan to a strict-liability standard, but would not make many changes in the court system. That should prevent the American system's excesses from occurring in Japan, proponents say.
"There are not enough lawyers in Japan for lawyers to become ambulance chasers," said Masato Nakamura, a product-liability lawyer and vice chairman of the Consumer Problems Committee of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations.
One example of a problem, Mr. Nakamura said, is the case of L-tryptophan, a diet supplement that caused 1,500 cases of a rare disorder, resulting in 38 deaths in the United States and prompting hundreds of lawsuits. Showa Denko, the Japanese manufacturer of the product, has paid out more than $600 million to American victims.
But in Japan, there have been no lawsuits. Showa Denko said that was because the product had not been popular here and that the health ministry had confirmed only two cases of the blood disorder caused by contaminated L-tryptophan.
But others doubt that assertion. "It's not like there aren't any victims in Japan," said Michiko Suga, a 54-year-old Tokyo resident who says she has suffered terrible pains from taking L-tryptophan for insomnia. The company, while not commenting on specific cases, apparently maintains that Mrs. Suga's problems are not connected to L-tryptophan.
While Mrs. Suga has thought about suing, "it's not really what I want to do," she said. "I want to get better."
 
Minolta Offer Rejected
 Some consumers do sue, however. Shoichi Iwasaki, a business consultant, said that on June 25, 1991, he left his house while his Minolta word processor was doing a lengthy printing job. When he returned, his daughter was outside screaming that there was a fire in the house.
"The first thing I saw from 15 feet away was the top of the word processor on fire," Mr. Iwasaki recalled, saying the fire was caused by a short circuit in the machine's electrical cord. The fire extensively damaged the first floor of his home and destroyed 200 floppy disks containing invaluable business data, he said.
Mr. Iwasaki said Minolta contended that such a thing could not happen. But it offered to pay 1 million yen, or about $8,000, and later increased its offer to 8 million yen, or $64,000. Last July, Mr. Iwasaki filed a lawsuit in Tokyo district court seeking 100 million yen, or $800,000.
A spokesman for Minolta said the company was confident that the word processor did not cause the fire. He said that 15,000 units had been sold by Minolta and Sanyo, which is the actual manufacturer, and that no other fires had been reported.
While most of the effort to change product-liability laws has been aimed at making lawsuits easier, the Nintendo situation has caused consumer groups to call for stricter warnings on products sold in Japan.
There is no health warning on alcoholic beverages sold here. And while cigarette packs in the United States include the Surgeon General's warnings that smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and may complicate pregnancy, cigarettes sold in Japan usually carry a more vaguely worded admonition along the lines of, "Because there is a danger of damaging your health, be careful not to smoke too much."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); NINTENDO CO LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LITIGATION (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EPILEPSY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); CLASS ACTIONS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WORLD WAR II (54%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



215 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Plunging Interest Rates Sow Hope and Caution

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Plunging interest rates are putting money into the pockets of millions of Americans and many corporations. And so far they have been using this new-found cash mostly to reduce their debts, behaving with much more wariness than in the past.
The interest rate phenomenon -- rates have fallen to their lowest levels in years -- is still too new to have changed economic patterns. But the beginnings are there. Not only are mortgage applications to buy homes rising, but the Federal Government's huge annual interest payment on the national debt is likely to be the same amount this year as last, the Congressional Budget Office says. Not since the 1960's has this outlay for debt service failed to rise. 
 "The total amount of the national debt is rising by roughly $300 billion a year," said Robert D. Reischauer, the Congressional Budget Office director, "and yet the interest payments on this debt are flattening out at $199 billion a year. That shows you the powerful effect the lower interest rates are having on a major Government outlay."
Many state and municipal governments have also taken advantage of the lower rates by refinancing their bonds. In January and February, such refinancings ran 53 percent above the level in the first two months of 1992, according to The Bond Buyer, a newspaper that reports on the credit markets. "These savings are helping states to finance public works spending," said Steven D. Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States.
Yet not everyone wins from lower rates. Elderly people who count on interest income to pay their expenses have experienced a sharp drop in the last year as rates have fallen. And people with credit-card debt are still paying the same high interest rates. The banks and other companies providing the cards have not reduced their rates although they are paying much less for the money they lend.
Nevertheless, a broad optimism came through in more than a dozen interviews late last week with economists, bankers, manufacturers, bond dealers, consumer representatives and housing experts. Most predicted that the lower rates would turn an uncertain economic recovery into a steady, solid one. But they were also wary.
"The decline in interest rates does not mean that corporations or consumers will spend a lot more," said Nancy R. Lazar, executive vice president of the ISI Group, a Wall Street investment firm. "That has not happened yet, although rates have been falling for two years. The reason is that debt levels are so high. But people do have a better feeling about their financial situation."
Because the Federal Government is such a big borrower -- the national debt is now roughly $4 trillion -- the Treasury securities that are sold to the public serve as guideposts for interest-rate levels in the private sector. Since consumer-loan rates have not dropped nearly as quickly, the biggest early winners from the lower rates have been big corporations, credit-card operations and banks.
 
Profitable Gap at Banks
 "The typical large bank that we follow has a net interest margin of 4.5 percent, an all-time high," said Raphael Soifer, a bank analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, referring to the gap between what a bank charges for loans and what it pays for money to its depositors.
Banks have two ways of making a profit: either charge high rates, or increase the dollar volume of loans outstanding, at lower rates. "They don't see the demand for enough new loans yet from creditworthy borrowers" to justify lowering rates, Mr. Soifer said.
Drawing on Federal Reserve data, Ms. Lazar said corporations had saved $25 billion in annual interest payments by paying off older loans and borrowing anew at lower rates. The similar saving for consumers is $11 billion, mostly from refinancing mortgages at the lowest rates in 20 years.
The mortgage savings come in this fashion: A 30-year, $100,000 mortgage at 8.9 percent, the typical rate last March, is refinanced today at 7.4 percent. The lower rate reduces the homeowner's monthly payment to $692 from $797, a savings of $105, the Mortgage Bankers Association calculates.
Much of the drop in mortgage interest rates has come since Election Day. "There's been a confluence of events," said David M. Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a Wall Street bond house. "The recovery has not generated many jobs, and that has kept inflation down. And investors have been pleasantly surprised by President Clinton's apparent determination to cut the deficit."
 
Home Sales Expected
 The result has been not only a surge in refinancing mortgages, but also a rise in applications for mortgages to buy homes -- applications that should show up as actual home sales in 30 to 60 days, said Lyle Gramley, chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association. "Our survey of 25 large mortgage bankers shows that applications for new mortgages have risen 80 percent above 1990 levels," Mr. Gramley said.
Some of the $11 billion that consumers have saved from lower interest payments has apparently been spent on appliances and furniture. Sales of these items have risen lately, helping to raise hopes among economists that home sales, new-home construction and the manufacture of all items purchased for a new home will lead the nation to a healthy recovery, as the housing sector has done in the past.
"There is no question that the latest fall in interest rates has energized the housing industry, although we have not yet seen this in new-home construction," Mr. Gramley said. "But we will."
The economy has been strengthened in other ways as a result of the fall in interest rates, starting in late 1990. Rates on short-term Treasury securities have declined steadily since then and in recent weeks rates on longer-term Treasury notes and bonds have plunged. The 30-year bond is down nearly a full percentage point since the November election, and many state and municipal governments have taken the opportunity to refinance bonds.
 
Some Rates Remain High
 But for all the benefits of lower interest rates, most Americans still pay more than 17 percent interest annually for credit card loans and most other consumer credit, the Consumer Federation of America says. Bankers justify the high rates by arguing that administering consumer credit is costly. They "are expensive operations," said Robert Hawkins, president of the Independent Bankers Association.
Banks have cut the rates that they pay to depositors to raise much of the money for consumer credit and other loans. Six-month certificates of deposit, for example, now pay their holders less than 3 percent a year, on average, compared with more than 8 percent in 1990. The result is that interest income, an important source of wealth, particularly for the elderly, fell by $55 billion in 1992, to $655 billion, the Commerce Department reports.
Scrambling for more income, Americans have moved savings, in huge amounts, from certificates of deposit and low-interest Treasury securities, to mutual stock and bond funds, and directly into such investments as five-year Treasury notes, now paying 5.10 percent, and 30-year bonds, at 6.73 percent.
And they have become more cautious shoppers, buying fewer cars, for example, and thus helping to inhibit the auto industry's sales, although car loan rates have fallen to an average of 9.65 percent from 13.16 percent two years ago. "Older people normally purchase about 15 percent of the cars and trucks that are sold in the United States," an official of the Chrysler Corporation said.
 
Companies Paying Debt
 Corporate America, although benefiting from lower rates, is also reluctant to borrow and spend big in anticipation of a strong recovery. Cooper Industries Inc., which is based in Houston and makes oil and gas equipment, auto parts and electrical products, is more concerned about refinancing existing debt, for example, than in borrowing more money for expansion.
"Low rates in a healthy economy are very positive, but low rates in an unhealthy one don't do much good," Robert Cizik, Cooper's chairman, said. "Most of our investments in the last several years have been to reduce our costs through the purchase of more efficient machinery. Very little has been spent to increase manufacturing capacity. There is no way that you can get a return on increased capacity, regardless of how low the cost of capital is, if there is not enough demand for the products."
Instead, Cooper is wondering what to do next with its $2 billion in debt. With short-term rates falling faster than long-term rates over the last two years, Cooper has shifted 75 percent of its debt to short-term loans with interest rates of 4 percent or less. Now with long-term rates having fallen, Cooper could lock in debt at 6.5 percent. Such a move would create a big additional expense, if the spread between short- and long-term rates remains.
"Two percentage points is a lot of money when you are borrowing $2 billion," said Mr. Cizik, who is also chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers. "And there is a question: Will the long-term rates go lower, or go up, or will short-term rates suddenly rise? We do not know."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Long Fall for Interest Rates" tracks monthly Treasury data and annual mortgage rates since June 1986. (Sources: Datastream; HSH Associates) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ISI GROUP INC (51%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FORECASTS INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); CITY GOVERNMENT (52%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



216 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: NEW ROCHELLE JOURNAL;
Hey Kids, What's Behind Door No. 3? Economics

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.

 BODY:
IF Peter Bell and the New York State Council on Economic Education have their say, sixth graders like Imhotep Newsome and Cresentia Villarin will know that there is a lot more to economics than understanding math.
Along with other students at the Albert Leonard Middle School here, they will learn that while math has fixed and impersonal answers, economics calls for flexible thinking, a set of individual values and a new vocabulary for everyday experiences. 
 Dr. Bell, the executive director of the council, a private, nonprofit group based at the State University of New York at Purchase, would have students learn this as early as the second grade. But first, he says, teachers themselves must get the economic education they never got in school.
To that end, the council has begun offering workshops so teachers can spend a day thinking like sixth graders and learning how to use a course called "Choices and Changes" that was developed by the council's parent organization, the National Council on Economic Education.
In Jeffrey Engel's classroom at the Albert Leonard school one recent morning, students played a version of "Let's Make a Deal." Mr. Engel, who leads the teacher workshops at the university, had mounted photographs of consumer items on poster boards and hidden them behind three paper "doors." He then asked the student contestants to explain why they chose either to keep an item or take a chance on the next door.
The class, which reflects this city's ethnic diversity and wide range of family income, quickly got into the spirit of the game. Cresentia, who said she likes to study Asian civilization, passed up tomatoes, a chocolate bar and won a video telephone. She made good choices, the class agreed.
But Doug Forest, who collects baseball cards and said he likes geography, passed up diamonds and got exercise equipment. Not too bad, said the class, but Doug disagreed. "I feel like a fool," he said. "I would rather have had the diamonds."
Mr. Engel spoke up. "Choices aren't clear-cut," he said. "Economists also have to make choices that aren't clear-cut. President Clinton has to rely on his human capital to make the best possible choices, but it is not clear what the costs will be."
This led Imhotep to define "opportunity costs." It's what you miss out on when you choose something, he said. Kimberly Herzog pointed out that choices involve values: not everyone will like your decisions.
Now Mr. Engel made his main point. "The more you know about your choices, the better you can make an educated choice," he said.
In a classroom down the hall, Lester Hallerman's sixth graders evaluated the costs and values of three different kinds of chocolate chip cookies. The students divided into groups and sampled cookies from plastic bags marked A, B and C. Then on worksheets, they rated each cookie on such qualities as softness, taste, "chocolatiness" and chewiness.
"Looks stale," wrote James Hoch in the Brand C column.
"Looks whitish, like it's not cooked all the way," wrote Tracy Basso, assessing Brand C.
"Very tasty and sweet," wrote Kate Downs, judging Brand B.
"Great taste," wrote Ralph Dawson, evaluating Brand A.
When the assessments were tallied, Brand B -- Sunshine Mini Chocolate Chip Cookies -- got the most votes for flavor, looks and number of chips. Brand A -- Pathmark Bite Size Chocolate Chip Cookies -- was voted the most moist and chewy. Brand C -- Nabisco Mini Chips Ahoy! -- finished last in each category.
Surprisingly, Brand C was the most expensive cookie, Brand A the least expensive, while the price of Brand B -- the overall winner -- fell in the middle.
"Looking at a cost-benefit analysis, which would be the best choice?" Mr. Hallerman asked. Hands shot up for Brand B.
But then, he asked, "Let's say you're giving a party for 3-year-olds; which cookie would you choose?" For those consumers, Mr. Hallerman said, the right answer was "probably Brand A, because most of the kids would just throw them at each other."
While "Choices and Changes" has been developed for students at risk of dropping out of school, Dr. Bell said, economics should be made more accessible to everyone. "Teachers are scared" by the subject, he said, "and they're not seeing that the economy is about everyday things."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION NATIONAL COUNCIL ON COMPENSATION INSURANCE INC (55%); NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ROCHELLE (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BASEBALL (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



217 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Reviews Due On Benefits For Disability

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7

 BODY:
About 300,000 residents of New York State will get notices from the Federal Government this week offering to re-examine claims for disability benefits that have been denied by the Social Security Administration since 1981.
The notices, giving people a fresh opportunity to show that they were entitled to benefits, are part of the settlement of a lawsuit. The plaintiffs contended that the Reagan Administration often flouted court rulings when it denied or terminated payments to disabled people. 
 Even as the Government sends those letters on Monday, the Social Security Administration is reporting record backlogs and delays in its disability program across the country. The delays result, in part, from reductions in the agency's staff, cuts in state welfare programs and a rise in the number of claims, which have increased because of the sluggish economy.
Nationally, the number of disability claims and appeals has increased 35 percent, to nearly 3.4 million this year, from 2.5 million in 1990.
 
Widely Criticized
 No other aspect of President Ronald Reagan's social policy was so widely criticized by Federal judges, governors and members of Congress as his effort to remove people from the disability rolls in defiance of court rulings. But there has been no nationwide remedy for those people. Payment of back benefits depends on the outcome of individual cases and class-action lawsuits in individual states.
In New York, for example, residents and former residents forced the Federal Government to offer such payments in settlement of a case known as Stieberger v. Sullivan. The lawsuit was filed in 1984 by the Legal Aid Society, Legal Services for the Elderly and a group called MFY Legal Services in Manhattan. The City of New York was also a plaintiff.
Under the settlement, approved in June 1992 by Federal Judge Leonard B. Sand of Manhattan, the Government must re-examine 40,000 cases a year in New York. So if 150,000 people respond to the notices, it may take four years to review the cases.
"Anyone who receives one of these notices should be sure to send in the reply form as soon as possible," said Matthew Diller, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society in New York City. "Those who are found to be disabled may receive thousands of dollars that are desperately needed." Some people may get awards totaling more than $20,000, he said.
People needing further information can call local Social Security offices or Legal Services for New York City at (212) 431-7200.
 
An 11-Year Period
 Although the settlement covers an 11-year period, it stipulates that people who are found disabled cannot receive more than four and a half years' worth of back benefits.
Monthly payments now average $626 for a disabled worker and $224 for a spouse or a child. Benefits are increased each year to reflect changes in the cost of living.
The Clinton Administration cited the New York case as one reason for seeking $302 million extra for Social Security this year, in addition to $4.8 billion already appropriated for the agency's administrative costs.
Nationwide, the Social Security agency says, 724,768 disability cases were pending at the end of 1992. The number has risen each year since 1988, when there were 406,759. The agency expects to have more than 1 million cases pending at the end of this year. Nearly one-fourth of the pending cases are in California, with 106,105, and New York, with 68,224.
Because of the backlog, the Government last year examined only 73,145 of the 6 million cases of people already on the rolls to see if they were still disabled. Congressional investigators say they suspect that thousands of people continue to get disability payments after they regain the ability to work.
 
Time to Respond
 People who receive notices from the Social Security Administration will have 180 days to respond.
"After people return the form, it may still take a long time for Social Security to get to their cases because the agency does not have enough staff to deal with its backlog," said David S. Udell, a lawyer at Legal Services for the Elderly in New York City.
Representative William J. Hughes, acting chairman of the Select Committee on Aging, said he was "greatly concerned" about the backlog because it was delaying payments to eligible people and hampering the Government's ability to identify those who should be removed from the rolls. In the last three years, he said, the Government has lost "hundreds of millions of dollars" because it continued paying benefits to people who would have been found ineligible if they had been re-examined by doctors.
Mr. Hughes, a New Jersey Democrat, said in an interview that the backlog came to his attention because of complaints from constituents who had to wait six months or more for Social Security disability benefits.
"These people were dying before their cases were heard," Mr. Hughes said.
The pendulum seems to have swung toward a more lenient policy since the Reagan Administration, when officials were perceived as too eager to remove people from the rolls. Now some lawmakers say the Social Security agency does not conduct enough reviews. The 73,145 reviews done last year represented a sharp decline from 353,791 in 1988.
 
Limited Funds
 While acknowledging that the number of reviews had declined, Mr. Diller of Legal Aid said: "When Social Security reviews cases to see if people are still disabled, it finds that beneficiaries are entitled to assistance in the overwhelming majority of cases. Given its limited funds, the agency is right to deal first with new applications, rather than combing the rolls to root out the few people who may not be entitled to benefits."
Philip A. Gambino, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, said 90 percent of the people re-examined by the agency were allowed to continue receiving benefits. After taking account of appeals, this figure rose to 94 percent, he said.
Judge Sand, like many other Federal judges, ruled that Social Security officials had acted unlawfully in refusing to follow appeals-court decisions. Until 1985, Social Security officials asserted that they were bound only by Supreme Court decisions and did not have to "acquiesce" in decisions of lower courts that contradicted their reading of the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION MFY LEGAL SERVICES INC (58%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DISABILITY INSURANCE; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); JUDGES (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); DISABLED WORKERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AGING (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); ELDER LAW (71%); COST OF LIVING (68%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; PEAR, ROBERT RONALD REAGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



218 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Traders Say Rally Can Continue

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The surprisingly strong employment report released on Friday knocked out one of the four legs supporting a spectacular rally in the long end of the bond market: signs of continuing economic weakness. But it does not mean that the rally has to falter, traders and analysts say.
For the rally to continue, however, two of the other three legs will have to bear more weight. This means that news on inflation, the most important factor, will have to remain positive. And it means that President Clinton will have to continue making progress on his plan to reduce the Federal budget deficit.
 
Funds Pour into Bonds
 The market's third source of support has been the large flow of capital into bonds. This money has come from investment funds putting in new cash and from managers who missed the rally and are trying to catch up. 
 Holders of mortgage-backed securities, who have been hurt by the rush to refinance home mortgages, are also buying Treasury securities to help stabilize their returns. And state and local governments and other tax-exempt borrowers are gobbling up Treasuries for the escrow funds that are used to pay off the old higher-interest-rate bonds they are replacing with new, lower-rate issues.
So far, this flow has seemed oblivious to economic data, but that could change at any time. On Friday, this kind of buying accounted for much of the recovery in prices after the initial news of a 365,000 increase in nonfarm jobs shocked traders and speculators into rapid-fire selling across the spectrum of Treasury issues. After jumping to 6.84 percent, the yield on the 30-year bond recovered to end unchanged at 6.73 percent for the day.
"The market has not been responding to the data; it has been responding to the capital flows," said William Pike, a managing director at Chemical Securities. "And when the dust settles you can see that," he said, referring to Friday's market rebound.
 
'True Signs of Recovery'
 Friday's strong employment report took away the weak-economy leg. "We are getting true signs of recovery in the job market in this data," said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Brothers. As one example, he pointed to the decline since October of 628,000 permanent job losses. Until October, the number of people who had lost jobs had been rising despite the fact that the economy had already been recovering from the recession for more than a year.
The prospect of a weaker economy had supported Treasury bills and short-term Treasury notes, because some investors and traders thought economic growth would slow enough to force the Federal Reserve to cut short-term interest rates. Earlier last week, this view was heightened by some unexpectedly weak economic data, including a decline in factory orders, weak 10-day car sales and a jump in initial jobless claims. The new jobs data are likely to cap this rally.
This perception of weakness also helped support the 30-year bond and longer-term Treasury notes, like the 10-year, because a sluggish economy means there is no fear of a rise in the rate of inflation. In fact, the weak-economy view has led some forecasters to conclude that inflation will slip this year below last year's 3 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index.
A lack of weak economic news puts more stress on the other supports of the rally. And since belief in low inflation is a newly acquired tenet -- and deficit reduction is still only a proposal -- closer scrutiny could be troublesome.
 
Inflation Data Could Surprise
 For example, some argue that investors and traders have not been paying enough attention to actual inflation data, and that the February C.P.I. data, to be released on March 17, may provide a shock.
The January rise of five-tenths of a percent in the C.P.I. was shrugged off by traders and investors as an aberration. And there is not much talk about the surprising resurgence in the Commodity Research Bureau index, a closely watched monitor of inflation. Since Feb. 8, it has jumped to 207.09, from 198.46.
"I don't think there is inflation out there," said Peter McTeague, an analyst for Technical Data in Boston. "But the C.R.B. has made a pretty good move, and bonds have not paid attention. Either the market believes there is no inflation or the market is just in a frenzy and no one is paying attention to price or outside variables."
If Friday's employment data had been in line with expectations -- an increase of 126,000 -- or weaker, an increase in the Consumer Price Index of another three or four tenths of a percentage point might be less disturbing because slow growth would be a cushion. But that hedge is gone for now.
 
Priced for a Growing Economy
 "The market was priced for an economy growing at much less than 3 percent and an inflation rate of less than 3 percent," said Kathleen Stephansen, senior economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. But she said the jump of 365,000 in nonfarm payroll jobs, and other data in the February employment report, do not indicate that either growth or inflation will remain less than 3 percent.
A bad inflation report in a week and a half would make another leg wobble, and the weight of the rally would then have to rest on just two legs -- the still-unfinished deficit reduction and the continued flow of money into the market from funds trying to catch up and from state and local governments to do refinancings of old debt.
In the same way that inflation might get more scrutiny, Mr. Clinton's economic plan would then get a closer look. So far, investors and traders have decided that his plan will be successful. And there might be more good news for the bond market if a push by some Democrats for more spending cuts is successful. But given Washington's recent history, it is hard to rule out any complication, even just a temporary one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PROPERTY ESCROW (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



219 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Murdoch to Sell New Notes

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, March 7

 BODY:
The News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch's global media group, has announced plans to tap United States markets for as much as $500 million in new funds.
The company, which in the last few months has floated a series of debt and equity issues that raised about $3 billion, said a subsidiary would issue stock known as liquid-yield option notes. "Proceeds will be used principally to repay bank debt," the company's secretary, Keith Brodie, said last week. 
 The issue would further dilute the stake in the News Corporation owned by Mr. Murdoch's family company, Cruden Investments. That is now estimated at 34 percent.
The option notes, with a maturity date of 2013, are to be exchangeable for ordinary News Corporation shares, at roughly 20 percent above market value on the date of issue.
The proceeds are expected to total $450 million to $500 million.
Stock analysts said the issue was a cheap and attractive way for the News Corporation to raise funds. The company, which was on the brink of collapse a little more than two years ago, last month reported a profit of $320 million for the six-month period that ended in December.
A spokeswoman for the Australia-based company, declining to give further details, said the issue had yet to be formalized in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (65%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (50%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP NEWS CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (65%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (50%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE) NEW ISSUES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



220 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Violently, Drug Trafficking in Mexico Rebounds

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CULIACAN, Mexico

 BODY:
Without knowing of its reputation, without hearing it called "Little Medellin," it might be difficult to recognize this bustling provincial capital as the historic center of Mexico's drug trade.
The young men in dark glasses riding in chromed pickup trucks are harder to pick out these days in the traffic of businessmen's sedans and farmers in from the countryside. Where the city's three rivers intersect, construction has started on a $300 million project to reclaim the floodlands for a glitzy sprawl of shopping centers, residential developments and business parks. 
 The new Governor of Sinaloa state, Renato Vega Alvarado, would love to talk about how its vegetable farmers might take advantage of a North American Free Trade Agreement. He would rather not talk about drugs.
"It's just not fair the treatment that Sinaloa gets," he said. "This state has lots of potential."
 
80 Slain in 2 Months
 But in Sinaloa, as elsewhere in Mexico, the drug trade has been bursting violently back into view. On a single night in January, traffickers left 11 people dead on Culiacan's streets. In the two months since Mr. Vega took office, the local body count has passed 80, with most of the deaths believed to be drug-related.
The killings are just the most visible sign that four years after President Carlos Salinas de Gortari pledged to make life miserable for the nation's drug traffickers, the traffickers have adapted well. The more vigorous enforcement has helped to push the drug issue far down the agenda of Mexico's conflicts with United States. Yet officials estimate that as much as 70 percent of America's cocaine supply still flows through Mexico, leaving a trail of lawlessness and corruption that may yet complicate plans for a closer economic partnership between the two countries.
"The Mexican perception is, 'This is as much as we can do and it's more than what many countries do,' " said Peter H. Smith, a political scientist at the University of California at San Diego who studies drug-control policies in Latin America. "It is a strategy that can improve the tone of United States-Mexican relations. But I think many people recognize that it can't do a whole lot to change the objective realities of the drug trade."
Drug enforcement officials say cocaine traffickers, in particular, have shown their resilience by the steady evolution of the routes and methods they use to move the drug through Mexico.
Under pressure from the joint United States-Mexican air-interception program begun in 1990, the smugglers have stopped sending convoys of cocaine-laden planes from Colombia to northern Mexico. More than half of the cocaine shipped through Mexico now lands in the south, Mexican officials say.
 
Traffickers' New Technique
 In recent months, a new technique has become more evident: small planes hop from the lush Guatemalan highlands to southernmost Mexico, landing briefly on jungle airstrips or airdropping their bundles along the eastern coast of the Yucatan Peninsula or in the remote lagoons of Chiapas and Tabasco states.
Mexican helicopters are now scrambled in pursuit, but rarely in time.
Mexican and United States officials, who would discuss the trafficking operations only on condition of anonymity, emphasized that since Mr. Salinas took office, Mexico had seized nearly 200 tons of cocaine and increased its eradication of opium poppy and marijuana crops. But the officials also acknowledged that even the imprisonment of some of the country's most powerful traffickers had not necessarily curtailed their operations.
Until recently, an official said, Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo, considered the country's most important cocaine trafficker when he was captured in 1989, worked out of an office-cell in Southern Prison in Mexico City that was equipped with cellular telephones and a fax machine. Bodyguards performed clerical work, and bribes to prison officials insured that the operation was not disturbed.
Since his transfer to a more high-security prison in the state of Mexico, Mr. Felix Gallardo's communications have been limited to contacts with his lawyers, who are believed to carry coded messages about pending deals. But one Mexican official said the nature of the trafficker's business had expanded in his nearly four years in jail.
Rather than merely moving cocaine, the official said, Mr. Felix Gallardo, a former Sinaloa state policeman, has emerged as a diversified merchant of narcotics services. For less powerful traffickers, he trades on his connections to cocaine producers in Colombia, finances purchases, and helps launder profits.
"Felix Gallardo is really a sort of investment banker for the others," the official said.
 
The Focus Changes
 More recently, though, officials have focused on other leading cocaine traffickers from Sinaloa, Joaquin Guzman, 42, and Luis Hector Palma, 38, who are believed to act often as partners and are enemies of Mr. Felix Gallardo.
They have been identified as the authors of a wild shooting attack on Nov. 8 against the leading Tijuana-based cocaine trafficking ring, that of the brothers Ramon and Francisco Arellano Felix. The assault, in which gunmen with automatic rifles stormed a posh Puerto Vallarta discotheque where members of the Arellano ring were relaxing, left six people dead.
The attack blew another hole in the notion that drug-related corruption among the federal police was substantially reduced by sweeping personnel changes over the last 18 months. Among the 13 people charged in the shootout -- most of the Arellano Felix men got away -- were the local commander and five agents of the Federal Judicial Police, the investigatory and drug-enforcement arm of the Attorney General's office. All six were charged with selling the traffickers protection. Then they were released on bail.
The shootout among smaller-time traffickers that left 11 people dead in Culiacan on Jan. 19 would have been "almost irrelevant," one Mexican official said, had two traffic policemen and two young street vendors not been caught in the crossfire.
 
Killings in the Thousands
 In Culiacan, however, the effect of the shootings was gauged differently.
"The authorities are trying to pretend that the violence doesn't exist," said Alfonso Corona Sapien, a dental surgeon whose sister, Normal Corona, the area's leading human rights advocate, was murdered in 1990. "But it does exist and it has to be fought."
As Culiacan has boomed over the last few decades from a big market town into a metropolis of 700,000 people, the violence has grown. Over the last dozen years, 7,000 murders have been recorded in the state; the great majority are believed to have been drug related.
Some residents, including Dr. Corona, say the violence has changed. Last May, for example, two car bombs exploded downtown, killing a private guard and putting the sort of narcotics terrorism typical of Colombia on the Mexican map.
According to a leading Sinaloa economist, drug money is a great part of the explanation for the state's average economic growth of 5.35 percent over the last six years, a rate roughly double that for the country as a whole. And to businessmen like Hector Niebla, a 45-year-old box manufacturer, it seemed that the drug-related violence was a problem only for the traffickers.
 
Citizens' Movements Grow
 "Mostly you saw them killing each other," said Mr. Niebla, the head of a local manufacturers' group. "More than making you concerned, it made you happy: they were wiping each other out."
But since last year, citizens' movements calling on the authorities to end the violence have gained momentum. In the state election campaign last fall, the Governor acknowledged, drug-related violence was the dominant issue.
"People learned to live with it," said Rodrigo Esparza Cristerna, a lawyer who heads the Federal Attorney General's office in Sinaloa. "Maybe their cousin grew the stuff -- how were they going to turn in their cousin? The society tolerated it, and they are not going to tolerate it anymore. People thought it would not affect them. But it has."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The drug trade in Mexico has been bursting violently back into view in recent months. Residents of Culiacan, Mexico, followed the funeral procession for a 12-year-old boy killed in January in a crossfire between drug traffickers that left 11 people dead. (Pedro Valtierra/Cuartoscuro)
 
Graphs: "Mexico's War on Drugs" shows crops destroyed and selected drugs seized in Mexici from 1985 to 1992. (Source: Mexican Federal Attorney General's Office)
 
Map of Mexico showing location of Culiacan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SALINAS, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CULIACAN (MEX); UNITED STATES MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SALINAS, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US DRUG TRAFFICKING (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); COCAINE (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); DRUG POLICY (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (61%); RETAILERS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) CARLOS SALINAS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



221 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 6; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
A Lively and Long Friendship Is Over

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, Salsa Meets Jazz, the long-running series at the Village Gate that for more that 20 years brought together some of the biggest names in Latin music and jazz, shut its doors. The closing wasn't greeted with much public commentary or hordes of television cameras. Salsa Meets Jazz no longer had a fancy profile; after so many years, it had become low key. Pairing the finest salsa orchestras with the finest jazz musicians, it let them find common ground. The common ground often shook, and the shows worked, week after week. Like all things that are consistent, Salsa Meets Jazz had been taken for granted.
It shouldn't have been, and the program's death, from rising costs and a dwindling audience, makes the city just a little more musically impoverished. Under the guidance of Symphony Sid Torin, a disk jockey, and Jack Hooke, a music-business entrepreneur, the series began as a straight Latin music show and then evolved into something special. Over the years -- it took a decade off, between 1970 and 1980 -- it had provided an extraordinary meeting of cultures and some of the best music the city could offer. All the great Latin bands came through, from Oscar D'Leon, the James Brown of Latin music, to Eddie Palmieri, the music's crazy, brilliant uncle; Mario Bauza, Tito Puente, Celia Cruz, El Gran Combo and Mongo Santamaria all showed up. 
 Jazz players, eager for the chance to mix it up with the great salsa orchestras, would call Mr. Hooke and ask to be included in the concerts. Dexter Gordon, Dizzy Gillespie, Wynton and Branford Marsalis, McCoy Tyner, Clark Terry, Roy Hargrove and Kenny Barron all performed. The musicians and groups that straddled the idioms, whether the Gonzalez brothers' Fort Apache Band or the trumpeter Charlie Sepulveda, would be there as well, as would the Cuban expatriates, Paquito D'Rivera and Arturo Sandoval. Every show was exciting, and because there were no rehearsals, every show sparkled with the unexpected.
The audience was as fascinating as the music. In a city where cultural events are often segregated by age, sex, class, culture and race, Salsa Meets Jazz was cross-cultural before cross-cultural was hip. Bilingual second-, third- and fourth-generation Hispanic-Americans, male and female, turned up, as did their parents and grandparents. Tourists from all over the world came, as did people of all hues interested in the jazz soloists, or the salsa orchestra, or both.
Latin music and culture have been an integral part of New York's life since the 1930's, and the program signaled the presence of a complex, mixed society, part a product of heritage and memory and part the product of an indelible American present. Instead of the almost inevitable sense of division and mutual alienation brought on by diverging cultures, the shows illustrated that the two had more than a little in common.
And it was also a chance for the musicians to be taken seriously. Like most dance music, salsa places the audience in a more important position than the band, which is there for the dancers. It was no accident that the dance floor at the Village Gate was behind the rows of chairs and tables. People came to listen first, and then dance. The result was an audience that keenly appreciated the friendly cutting contests that inevitably arose between the hired-gun jazz musicians and the Latin players, who would gear up their improvisations under the challenge.
In the end, Salsa Meets Jazz may have been a victim of its own success. Latin music is by many accounts growing, expanding across its traditional cultural and linguistic boundaries. But when S.O.B.'s, one of the many clubs in the city offering Latin music, opened a Monday-night Latin-music series in direct competition with the Village Gate, the audience splintered. The small profit margin that an off night like Monday could provide vanished.
The recession had also been taking its toll, the promoters say. Advertising costs had risen dramatically. Ticket prices were forced upward, as band and transportation prices rose. The average salsa band has between 12 and 20 members, and they often had to be flown in from Colombia, Venezuela, the Dominican Republic or Puerto Rico.
At the last show, Ray Barretto's orchestra, from New York, played host to the tenor saxophonist Stanley Turrentine, and they quickly produced the sorts of miracles the series was known for. Mr. Turrentine came out and performed his "Sugar" and the tune "Footprints." For "Footprints," the band, improvising completely, produced a dense sound, boiling over with percussion and riding the tune's bassline. Mr. Turrentine stepped up to the microphone, and peals of notes poured forth in the form of guffaws, shrieks and complicated be-bop lines, all using his monumental sound. The audience, taken by the raw power of Mr. Barretto's band and the exuberance of the improvisations, loved it. But it was a minor victory in the face of a major loss for New York's music scene.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: VILLAGE GATE (NYC CLUB)

ORGANIZATION: VILLAGE GATE (NYC CLUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSIC (91%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (60%); 

PERSON: WATROUS, PETER JAMES BROWN (55%); TITO PUENTE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



222 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Elements of the Cure

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

 BODY:
Redesigning American health care, as Hillary Rodham Clinton and her colleagues are now trying to do, is a task daunting in its complexity. Those of us outside the debate find it hard even to grasp the terms: managed competition, global budgeting and the rest.
But there are some elements, easily understood, that I think must be part of any reform plan if it is to have a chance of success. I mean success in both the political sense of being enacted by Congress and the ultimate sense of working well. 
 A first essential is to end what The Economist of London has called "America's nonsensical link between a person's health care and his current job."
In this country, unlike the rest of the industrialized world, most of us get health insurance from our employers. The result is growing economic and human stress. Employers, beset by rising costs, seek to trim health plans. Employees feel betrayed. And they fear to move to better jobs or more attractive places because they may lose their health care.
A second point is closely related: Americans must be able to get health insurance regardless of their medical history.
Today health insurers keep a close watch on what they call "pre-existing conditions." They do not want to take on people who are statistically more likely than most to need medical attention.
This adds a cruel twist to the problem of job mobility. The person offered a great new job may not be able to take it because a prior condition will make it difficult to get health coverage.
Those two essential needs would be met by a reformed system that required the entities providing health care -- whatever they are -- to make it available to all individuals, regardless of prior conditions. Then each organization providing care would be funded in accordance with the actuarial profile of its members: their likely medical needs.
Under the approach that the President's task force is said to favor, the funder would be a regional cooperative. Employers or individuals would pay that cooperative, which in turn would approve different, competing plans for care, prepaid by a flat fee.
An approach of that kind would also meet a third essential of reform: to eliminate the vast burden of paperwork that now afflicts doctors, hospitals and patients alike.
Which of us insured, middle-class Americans has not had to struggle with successions of incomprehensible medical bills spewed out by computers? Administrative costs alone -- unnecessary in a rational system -- are estimated to be $70 billion a year.
It is even worse for doctors and hospitals. Both are subjected to layers of review by boards and committees, judging whether their costs and medical decisions were justified. Doctors have had to hire staffs to keep up with the paperwork: something unknown in other countries.
In a reformed system neither hospitals nor doctors inside a prepaid plan would bill anyone. They would work within annual budgets. For the consumer there would be no bills, and no need to claim reimbursements.
To state those necessary elements of reform is to realize, if one reflects, how difficult it is to frame a plan that attracts the needed support. For change has inherent tensions for all concerned.
Doctors, for example, long to get rid of the paperwork and bureaucracy. But those are the necessary concomitants of private, fee-for-service medicine, which most American doctors have traditionally preferred.
We the consumers want to stop the frightening rise in the cost of health care, and simplify its administration. But most Americans, when they are sick, tend to demand every test and procedure, regardless of how expensive it is or how remote its chance of success. That habit cannot be squared with a system that tries to hold down the nation's health costs.
The great danger is that President Clinton will be tempted merely to tinker with the existing system: put in some new cost ceilings here, some incentives for managed care there. That might look easier than grasping the nettle of real reform.
But tinkering would not work. Patients and doctors would think about how they might lose -- instead of seeing, and welcoming, the chance for logic and simplicity in our health care.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



223 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Last New Nixon

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: PARK RIDGE, N.J.

 BODY:
"My partisan days are over."
Coming from Richard Nixon, who has raised more partisan ire than any American public figure in the past half-century, that's a stunning statement. 
 Back in 1966, the year of his first comeback, reporters listening to his longheaded world views would narrow their eyes and wonder about the "new" Nixon. I was present at the creation of his disarming and not defensive reply: "Of course there's a 'new' Nixon -- times change; there's a new America and a new world."
In 1993, at age 80, the American uniquely qualified to be foreign-policy elder statesman is renewing his role again. "There may be a need for a Vandenberg," he says, recalling the Republican Senator whose name is still associated with bipartisanship in foreign policy.
He has just returned from a grueling two-week private trip to Russia and other republics of the former Soviet Union. Today, he responds to an invitation from President Clinton to report his findings and help educate his youthful successor on global power-playing. A month from now, he's off to Japan and China.
Last Wednesday night at 9:40, the White House operator reached the former President in his New Jersey town house. The operator then could not find President Clinton, and apologized; Nixon said, "I'll wait; he's a helluva lot busier than I am." When Clinton came on, they talked for nearly 40 minutes.
I tried to find out what was said in that call (recommended to Clinton by Bob Dole and Bob Strauss) and received a mock-glower: one does not reveal confidences with Presidents. But Nixon returning from abroad always writes his thoughts and sticks to them; his long article on The Times's Op-Ed page, which was later looked kindly upon publicly by President Clinton, telegraphed his central points:
1. Boris Yeltsin is not hard to read -- charismatic, refreshingly straightforward -- and if he were replaced, we would not likely get a better hope for democracy in Russia, only a worse one.
2. The reformers need help from Western executives in developing an entrepreneurial class to attract private investment. In next month's summit in Vancouver, Clinton should have specific ways "to put some meat on the table," as statesmen say, and Nixon has a few thoughts about that.
3. Our stakes in Russia's reform could not be higher, because Clinton's budget package would be a dead letter if Russian nationalists took over and our defense budget had to be increased.
Nixon is candid about his liking for Russians. "I'm a Russophile, but not a Commiephile."
He takes a visitor on a world tour. On Bosnia: "I'm more hawkish than Bush was. You cannot work out a settlement unless there is a correlation of forces -- the arms embargo was a mistake. Your colleague Gelb is right about that."
On China: "They can never hope to attract Taiwan if they stomp on democracy in Hong Kong. I'll tell them that in Beijing." Trade pressure for human rights? "It would be a mistake for us to weaken the private Chinese economy -- that's the greatest pressure for political reform, and the next generation is more Chinese than Communist."
Japan: "It's really dumb for the Japanese to predicate help for Russia on four little islands."
America as world policeman: "Who the hell else do you want to lead the world -- China, Japan, Germany? The U.N.? Russia and all those republics could be lost to freedom if America abdicates leadership."
Clinton's call to arms? Looking out across a snowy landscape, Nixon gives an indirect reply: "By making freedom work here, we set a powerful example. We have to exercise leadership that makes the world respect us and build a society that makes the world admire us. You see misery in Moscow, but determination -- poor in goods, rich in spirit. That's the message to get across to kids these days. What a great chance for Clinton."
The 1996 campaign? Nixon, the old gleam in his eye, leans forward: "Republicans should forget about '96 and think about good candidates for '94 -- you can't win seven Senate seats with turkeys. In '66, two years after the Goldwater debacle, we --"
He catches himself.
"Nope. I don't want to reduce my effectiveness in foreign affairs. My partisan days are over."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); BUDGETS (60%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



224 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Japan Must Shoulder More of the World Burden

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Let Japan Choose Peace" (editorial, Feb. 21) describes the constitutional and military policy issues challenging Japan. Your figures about Japan's contributions of foreign aid and United Nations dues are correct, but leave a misleading impression. 
 Japan is limited to 1 percent of its gross domestic product for defense. It spends about 1/2 of 1 percent on foreign aid. The United States spends nearly 6 percent of gross domestic product for defense and about 1/4 of 1 percent on foreign aid. The United States economy is twice the size of the Japanese economy. So, we dwarf the Japanese (and all other countries) in defense spending. We also spend huge amounts not included in the official foreign assistance figures. The vast United States humanitarian efforts are only partly accounted for in foreign aid statistics.
Perhaps more significant, the United States provides global security for itself, Japan, the European Community and many other countries, as the world's only military superpower. For the common effort of world security, the United States percentage of G.D.P. devoted to this effort is about four times that of Japan's percentage-measured efforts. When translated into actual dollars and yen, this means that the United States effort is about eight times that of Japan.
Japan could do more. It could double its foreign aid every few years, adding more grants and untied concessional loans. Japan could help the United States provide security for the world principally by extending increasing amounts of concessional credit to poor countries to procure goods and services competitively.
Japan does not meet any concept of fair share in providing security for the world, if security is defined as both military and economic. What it cannot do militarily, it can seek to do economically. However, it tends to stress it is No. 1 in percentage contributions to foreign aid; that is pretty cheap when history has provided only a minimal military role for Japan.
And, of course, its assistance to the former Soviet republics is virtually nonexistent since Japan takes refuge in the Kurile Island question. Japan, unfortunately, looks for easy outs when it comes to meeting its foreign obligations.
 
HARRY L. FREEMAN
Chevy Chase, Md., Feb. 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



225 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Japan Must Shoulder More of the World Burden;
Noble Experiment

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Let Japan Choose Peace" (editorial, Feb. 21), does not go far enough. Not only the United States, but also the world has an interest in leaving Japan's "peace Constitution" intact. 
 The renunciation of war as a sovereign right of the nation and the prohibition of the maintenance of military forces are a noble experiment in world history. It has worked for 45 years, during which the country enjoyed peace and much economic growth. Let world public opinion support Japan to continue the experiment and urge the Japanese to live up to the peace Constitution by gradually disarming its huge and powerful Self-Defense Force.
The world has entered a new era. The Soviet Union is gone. Interdependence among nations has greatly increased. Instant, global communication is a reality. Globally coordinated efforts are called for. The world is ready for new ways to build peace. It's time to abandon the old ways of relying on weapons.
May Japan use its economic might skillfully to strengthen interdependence across nations, regions and continents, and to tackle global issues without threat of coercion. And may other nations adopt their own peace constitutions.
 
KOYA AZUMI
Mitaka, Japan, Feb. 24, 1993
The writer is a professor of sociology at International Christian University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CONSTITUTIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISTORY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



226 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Why Conservatives Will Keep Carping

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Mr. Clinton's Captious Critics" (editorial, Feb. 23) argues that Republicans should not waste their time taking "abstract potshots at government's legitimate role in American society." But it is the difference in how Republicans and Democrats -- or more precisely conservatives and liberals -- define the legitimate role of the Federal Government that explains much of the Republican Party's opposition to President Clinton's tax and fiscal policies. 
 The legitimate role of the Federal Government is expressly defined in the Constitution. Not that constitutional strictures limiting the role of the Federal Government seem to matter much anymore.
For more than 30 years, a Democratically controlled Congress, with the complicity of many Republicans, has routinely ignored these limiting provisions and expanded the role of the Federal Government beyond recognition. We have become less free as a result.
An uncomfortable fact of life, at least for conservatives, is that the state's ability to collect taxes rests ultimately on its power to coerce its citizenry. It is a power that should be used with discretion and explains why conservatives are loath to compel United States taxpayers into supporting programs that clearly exceed the Federal Government's constitutional mandate.
But more to the point: Do you really think that Americans reluctant to support extraconstitutional Federal programs or mandates (for example, high-speed rail, dairy supports, industrial policy, parental leave, training programs) should be given the choice of either paying up or going to Federal prison? It would appear the answer is yes.
However, I, for one, respectfully decline to be eviscerated to finance, as you put it in your best gray language, "a new level of government engagement," and I plan to continue carping and complaining. After all, to be captious in defense of liberty is no vice.
 
STEPHEN D. EULE
Washington, Feb. 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY FEDERAL PROGRAMS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); FAMILY LEAVE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



227 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: After 3 Decades Working in Senate, Kennedy Gets a Turn for His Agenda

SERIES: The Lawmakers: Portraits of the Powers On Capitol Hill -- Third article
of a series.

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
After three turbulent, sometimes triumphant and often troubled decades, Senator Edward M. Kennedy is entering a singularly calm, optimistic time in his life.
 For the first time since he accumulated real power in the Senate, he has a President as an ally. He has been a committee chairman during four Administrations, but he often fought Presidents Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and George Bush over domestic policy. Today, his enthusiasm for President Clinton's vision seems unbounded. In a recent interview, he compared the new President to his own brother, John F. Kennedy. 
After an unhappy marriage, a divorce and years when supermarket tabloids paid more attention to his private life than political scientists did to his legislative skills, he has remarried. Now 61, he takes obvious pleasure in Victoria Reggie Kennedy's company and proudly interrupted a hearing a few weeks ago to explain he had to leave for her daughter's seventh birthday party.
 And even in the area in which he enjoyed continual success -- getting laws passed that he felt would help the sick and the poor and victims of discrimination -- 1993 looks particularly auspicious. For the idea he has preached from the political wilderness for two decades, universal health care, is suddenly at the center of the political stage.
 
Right Place, Right Time
 "In politics, as in life and love, a lot depends on being in the right place at the right time," he said recently. "That's certainly what's happened to me," said the Democrat who never fulfilled the destiny many saw for the last Kennedy, but is ranked by scholars and colleagues like Robert C. Byrd as among the most effective lawmakers in the history of Congress.
 As to Mr. Clinton, Senator Kennedy saw the President's opportunity as similar to Franklin D. Roosevelt's in the 1930's, and "30 years later, President Kennedy was beginning to move in the 60's." He said he thought Mr. Clinton understood "what the Presidency could mean in terms of domestic leadership as well as international leadership, and his own role in terms of history."
 This alliance might seem surprising. Last year's Presidential election was the first since the Lyndon Johnson era in which Mr. Kennedy did not consider running. And Mr. Clinton won last year by proclaiming himself a different sort of Democrat -- different from the old, big-spending Democrat, the Ted Kennedy Democrat.
 That stereotype, used for years by Republicans and some Democrats, had less validity in the 80's. With soaring deficits, the Senator tempered his views. Moreover, many of the areas where Mr. Clinton does want to spend money, those that fall under his general category of "human investment," have been Kennedy issues since before Mr. Clinton was a household word even in Arkansas.
 
Health Care Is No. 1
 He and Mr. Clinton may come to differ, though no cracks show yet. And if there is one domestic issue that the chairman of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee is counting on Mr. Clinton to advance, it is the issue of national health care. That is the issue for which Mr. Kennedy has been the Senate's foremost advocate since 1970.
 Health care is also the issue that first brought him and Mr. Clinton together. On Dec. 9, 1978, Mr. Kennedy made one of the most memorable speeches of his career, telling a party conference in Memphis that "national health insurance is the great unfinished business on the agenda of the Democratic Party."
 Plainly scorning the Carter Administration, he said: "There are some who say we cannot afford national health insurance. They say it has become an early casualty of the war against inflation."
 "Sometimes a party must sail against the wind," he said. "We cannot afford to drift or lie at anchor. We cannot heed the call of those who say it is time to furl the sail."
 Mr. Clinton, the newly elected Governor of Arkansas, was the moderator that day as the crowd roared approval with an enthusiasm that startled the Kennedy camp and encouraged the challenge he mounted against Mr. Carter for the 1980 Democratic nomination.
 
A Defining Issue
 Mr. Clinton, who had spent the morning boning up on health care, called it a "great speech." He told reporters he thought he had been chosen for the moderator's role because he was "neutral" on the issue.
 But that was 1978. Fifteen years later, health care is the ultimate measuring rod for his Administration, a staggering challenge.
 Mr. Clinton will need all the support he can get. In the Senate, jurisdiction on the issue is shared between Mr. Kennedy's committee and the Finance Committee, whose new chairman, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, shares his sense that something major has to be done.
 But in the Senate, anyhow, committee products are less determinative than they are in the House. This issue will surely be fought over and decided on the floor. The senior Republican on Mr. Kennedy's committee, Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum of Kansas, said of her chairman, "After all these years, he's not going to let it get away from him."
 This is the big issue whose solution has eluded him in 32 years in the Senate, as he played major roles on Vietnam, reapportionment, Watergate, campaign finance, tax reform, deregulation of transportation, education, medical research, and, above all, civil rights -- where he is now the Congress's unquestioned leader.
 
Dip in Reputation
 He established himself as the leading liberal of a conservative age, even though the event most recently set in the public's memory came on Good Friday of 1991, when he roused his nephew William K. Smith to go have a drink in Palm Beach. When Mr. Smith was arrested and charged with rape, Mr. Kennedy's reputation took another heavy blow.
 And before Mr. Smith was acquitted, the case effectively disabled the Senator from the role his followers expected in the Judiciary Committee's examination of the sexual harassment accusations Anita F. Hill made against Clarence Thomas.
 His reputation dipped even in Massachusetts, and polls suggested he would be vulnerable in the 1994 election. Continual appearances across the state, almost always accompanied by his new wife, whom he married last March, eased those concerns.
 The bumps that have upset his personal and political lives in the last few years have had remarkably little effect on his life as a lawmaker, or on the legislative tools he uses.
 One is staff. Year in and year out, Mr. Kennedy's aides are praised as among the smartest and hardest-working on Capitol Hill. Carey Parker, his legislative director, has worked for him since 1969. Most of his other aides stay several years.
 Senator Kassebaum's predecessor as ranking Republican on the Labor Committee, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, is the prime example of Mr. Kennedy's other major legislative weapon -- a knack for forming alliances with Republicans.
 For decades, Republicans have raised millions of dollars by using Mr. Kennedy as the pre-eminent symbol of liberal excess. The Kennedy specter has also been used, especially in the South, to help defeat Democrats.
 But many Republican Senators have been ready to work with him. In 1967, for example, he worked with Senator Howard H. Baker of Tennessee against Senator Baker's father-in-law, Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois, over reapportionment. In 1991 the ally was Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri on civil rights.
 
Making Republican Allies
 Mr. Hatch came to the Senate from Utah in 1977 determined to fight Mr. Kennedy and the liberal ideas he stood for. Today a painting of the Kennedy family's Hyannis Port compound hangs in his reception room.
 When Republicans took over the Senate and Mr. Hatch became chairman of the labor committee in 1981, he found he could work with the Massachusetts Democrat far more than he expected. They worked together on a variety of health issues, including AIDS, and last year they pushed through the only urban aid bill Congress managed to enact after the Los Angeles riots, although it involved less money than either man sought.
 That ability to work with Republicans was especially critical in the Reagan and Bush years. The Labor Committee has an immense jurisdiction, ranging over all manner of labor and health and education issues. If laws were going to be enacted in those areas in the 80's, some Republican allies had to be found.
 This year, several other issues besides health care that are close to Mr. Clinton's heart will come before Mr. Kennedy's committee. They include the President's promises to improve job training programs; his hopes to tie college loans to national service programs; his commitment to improve health programs for children, and a range of other proposals.
 
Touchy Issues, Too
 And the Clinton Administration will have a major say in the committee's most time-consuming task of the year. Mr. Kennedy estimates that it will take six or seven months to rewrite the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, including an effort to adjust its formula for grants to take account of increasing numbers of poor children and the growing problems of big city systems with many children who do not speak English.
 And at odd moments it will be facing such hot issues as the Freedom of Choice Act, civil rights protections for homosexuals, replacement of striking workers, and the Occupational Safety and Health Act.
 But the biggest issue of all is universal health care. Over the years, Mr. Kennedy has supported one proposal and then another as he sought a majority. He tells a story to emphasize his attitude these days:
 Three geography teachers were competing for a job. The school board had a two-thirds-vote requirement to choose someone, and was bitterly split over whether the earth was round or flat. The first applicant was rejected because he taught the flat earth approach. The second was turned down because he was committed to a round earth. The third got the job, after telling the board, "I can teach it flat or teach it round."
 "I'm interested this time in practical solutions, in getting this done," Senator Kennedy said. "I'm ready to teach it round or teach it flat -- if it's universal, and cuts costs and provides quality."


GRAPHIC: Chart: "Edward M. Kennedy"
Photo: "In politics, as in life and love, a lot depends on being in the right place at the right time," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who has preached the idea of universal health care for two decades. (Paul Conklin)
Born: Feb. 22, 1932, Boston.
Hometown: Hyannis Port, Mass.
Education: Milton Academy; A.B., Harvard College; LL.B., University of Virginia Law School.
Career Highlights: 1961-62, assistant district attorney, Suffolk County, Mass.; 1962, elected to U.S. Senate; 1979-80, chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee; 1980, unsuccessful candidate for Democratic Presidential nomination; 1987-present, chairman, Labor and Human Resources Committee. Family: Married to Victoria Reggie; one son and one daughter from her previous marriage and two sons and one daughter from his previous marriage to Joan Bennett Kennedy.
Hobbies: Sailing; tennis, amateur painting; reading American history and biography.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MEDICINE AND
HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); RANKINGS (69%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TED KENNEDY (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1993



228 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Suburban Superstores Come To New York City Shoppers

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Some of the nation's largest discount retailers -- the cavernous department stores, warehouse clubs and super supermarkets that for decades have shaped the shopping landscape of America's suburbs and small towns -- are coming to New York City.
With the price of the city's real estate falling and the appetite for variety and value growing, these discounters are now discovering that New York, like other big cities, represents the last untapped frontier for their low-margin, high-volume wares: more than seven million consumers and such a dearth of these stores that many New Yorkers drive to the suburbs to find them. 
 A handful have already opened in the city -- from the Kmart in Queens to the Finast in Brooklyn to the Bed, Bath and Beyond in Manhattan. The Home Depot and Caldor's have bought sites. And almost a dozen more -- including Pathmark, Wal-mart, Waldbaum's, the Price Club and BJ's Wholesale Club -- are mounting increasingly aggressive searches for space, particularly in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx.
"It's an awareness of the awesome potential that exists," said Charles E. Lotzar, an executive with the Kmart Corporation, which wants to open more stores in the city, including its subsidiary superstores, Pace, Sports Authority and Border Books. "There's really no other place like it."
Desperate to fill the employment void left by the decline of manufacturing and the closing of some of the city's traditional department stores, the city's economic officials have eagerly welcomed the discounters that for years stayed away because of high costs. Now, in an effort to attract more, the Department of City Planning has proposed changes in zoning policies that some retailers and officials say have helped keep them out.
The arrival of these stores -- familiar sights along the nation's highways and boulevards, with their huge signs and sprawling parking lots -- could profoundly change the city, its neighborhoods and the sometimes idiosyncratic way that New Yorkers shop.
While officials and the retailers themselves say the stores will create thousands of jobs and raise millions of dollars in taxes, others warn that an unchecked proliferation will do to New York what it has done to other cities and towns. They darkly predict that the stores, with their high volume and low margins, will undercut and destroy the local merchants that have given the city's many Main Streets their singular character.
"We have to tread very carefully," said Bernd Zimmermann, the director of planning for the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer. "It's time the city addresses the flight of buying power to the suburbs, but there is a hefty amount of fear among small retailers that the market will be drawn out from under them. That has to be addressed, too."
 
Glut of Retail Space
 There was a time, in the early 1960's, when New York City was the retail center of the metropolitan region, accounting for nearly 50 percent of all retail sales. But as the retailers followed the flight of the middle class from cities to the suburbs, creating shopping hubs designed for the car, the city has watched many of its department stores close: Alexander's, Gimbels, B. Altman, May's, Ohrbach's, E. J. Korvette.
The closings have now created a glut of vacant retail space -- seven million square feet in Manhattan alone -- driving down prices by as much as $10 to $20 a square foot in Manhattan, where prices can vary from $40 to $50 a square foot, according to Charles Aug of Garrick Aug Associates Store Leasing Inc., who is doing searches for several discounters he declined to identify.
Now brokers and city officials say the dual effects of the lower rents and the void left by the closings has finally made the city attractive to the discounters. And after decades in which retailers, shoppers and money flowed to the suburbs, the arriving stores might reverse the flow.
"My belief is that we are watching the gradual re-entry into the city of the businesses that went to the suburbs in the post-World War II market," said Barry F. Sullivan, the Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development. "That market is relatively saturated. Now they're looking for ways to begin to come back in."
One indication of the interest was the remarkable bidding war between two regional chains -- the Caldor Corporation and Bradlees Inc. -- to buy six of the department stores left vacant by the collapse of Alexander's last year. As Alexander's wallowed in bankruptcy, Bradlees offered $82 million to buy the six stores -- two in the Bronx, two in Queens and one each in Yonkers and Valley Stream, L.I.
 
Bidding War
 Caldor, one of the largest discounters in the Northeast, countered with its own offer, said to have been at least $5 million more. The bidding culminated last November, when the two companies clashed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, raising their bids 23 times in a single day, usually in increments of $1 million, until Caldor won with a bid of $120 million.
Caldor, which opened its first store in the city in Queens in 1990 and another on Staten Island in 1991, expects to open five of the six stores soon, possibly by the end of the year, with some 250 jobs in each. The other, in Yonkers, it leased to Bradlees.
"We were disappointed at the way it worked out," said Coleman Nee, a spokesman for Bradlees, a chain of 127 stores based in Braintree, Mass. "It doesn't mean we're not going to keep trying."
In addition to the discounters that have opened or hope to move into the city for the first time, others want to expand, opening larger stores, including Toys 'R' Us and Kmart, which has two smaller stores on Staten Island.
The Home Depot, the behemoth home improvement chain based in Atlanta, has bought a swath of land at the Aqueduct Race Track near Kennedy International Airport and has agreed to buy the closed Taystee Bakery plant in Flushing, Queens.
 
In Pursuit of Customers
 The chain has many stores in the region, particularly on Long Island and in New Jersey. As they crept closer to the city, opening stores in Paramus, N.J., in late 1990 and in Elmont, L.I., the next year, the managers noticed that many of their customers came from the city.
The company is now searching for more, especially in Brooklyn, said Larry Mercer, the president of the Northeast division.
The city's appetite for such stores certainly appears enormous. While Nassau County has one retailer with more than 100 workers for every 8,500 people, for example, the city overall has one for every 20,000.
Obstacles remain for the large retailers, though. The price of land remains expensive compared with the rest of the region and nation and the large parcels (usually at least 10 acres) that the stores desire are hard to come by.
Clearing such obstacles is a primary goal of the city's proposal to ease the zoning restrictions in some light and medium manufacturing zones, including areas left vacant by the decline of manufacturing in the city.
The city's zoning policy allows large retailers, like Macy's, in some areas, like 34th Street, but it also includes restrictions that require a developer to obtain a variance to build a store larger than 10,000 square feet in many commercial and manufacturing areas -- a process that can take years.
The proposal, which is subject to approval by the City Council, would allow stores up to 100,000 feet to move into these zones without the variance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Large discount retailers, like Bed, Bath and Beyond on West 19th Street, are coming to New York City. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (91%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (91%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (91%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (56%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (56%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (91%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (91%); KMART CORP (84%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ZONING DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (93%); RETAILERS (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); ZONING (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1993



229 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
Stocks surged to new highs as investors sought returns no longer available from bank accounts and bonds. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 64.84 points, or 1.9 percent, to a new closing high of 3,469.42. Other indexes rose as well. [Page A1.]
New York City will sell about $150 million worth of yen-denominated bonds, its first in a foreign currency. Denominating bonds in yen makes them easier to sell in Japan than bonds denominated in dollars. [D1.] 
 The dollar fell against most leading currencies in quiet trading. Gold also fell. [D15.] Hog futures surged. [D15.]
 
The Economy
Restrictions on medical malpractice lawsuits and limits on doctors' fees are being considered by the Clinton Administration in its effort to control health costs. Doctors support many of the malpractice proposals but oppose the idea of fee limits. [A1.]
The Clinton Administration is concerned about a legislative bottleneck this summer, when the North American Free Trade Agreement reaches the same Congressional committees dealing with the President's budget proposals. [D1.]
President Clinton and senior Congressional budget writers agreed to make $55 billion more in spending cuts than Mr. Clinton had sought in his five-year spending plan. [A15.]
 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners suspended the accreditation of New York State in its effort to encourage states to adopt uniform and tougher guidelines. [D2.]
 
Companies
Steven Hoffenberg's purchase last year of a nursing home is an example of the paper trail Federal regulators must follow in investigating alleged irregularities in Mr. Hoffenberg's sale of $415 million in bonds of his Towers Financial Corporation. [D1.]
Blockbuster Entertainment will buy 48.2 percent of Spelling Entertainment in a further move into television and motion picture program production and ownership. [D1.]
Two Sunbeam-Oster executives sued to dissolve a partnership that gives the company's former chairman and chief executive, Paul B. Kazarian, some control over Sunbeam affairs. [D3.]
Marriott expects to reach an agreement with bondholders objecting to its plan to split in two. But some bondholders will pursue suits accusing Marriott of securities fraud. [D3.]
Comptronix settled a lawsuit by shareholders and reached a binding debt-restructuring agreement with its lenders. [D3.]
Pet sold its Whitman's Chocolate trademark to Russell Stover for $35 million as part of its shift to grocery products. [D3.]
Signs are growing stronger that Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, G.M.'s purchasing chief, will move to Volkswagen. [D3.]
For Deloitte & Touche, the World Trade Center disaster could not have come at a worse time -- tax season. [B4.]
 
International
The Japanese stock market continued its rally, rising despite deteriorating business conditions, an economy that is still backpedaling and a serious political scandal. [D1.]
Mexico's unemployment rate is 2.9 percent and falling, which, many say, is an inaccurate reflection of labor conditions in a country marked more by poverty than prosperity. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
Earnings of Smokestack America's industrial companies face setbacks because of possible future liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the environment. Market Place. [D6.]
DDB Needham Worldwide plans to acquire at least one large independent media services company in a signal of its commitment to "unbundling." Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (51%); VW (SWX) (51%); VOW (FRA) (51%); VOA (PAR) (51%); VKW (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (61%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (61%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); FUTURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (74%); GOLD MARKETS (74%); NURSING HOMES (74%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (67%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); POLITICS (67%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); ACCREDITATION (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



230 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: Steisel's Standing Rises In Dinkins's Inner Circle;
First Deputy Mayor's Power Arena Widens

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Minute by minute, day to day, Norman Steisel, New York City's First Deputy Mayor, is at the helm in City Hall. He can often be spotted standing behind his secretaries' desks in front of his office at the far end of the main corridor. Phone planted firmly on his ear, Mr. Steisel barks out commands to commissioners and agency heads while his eyes survey the physical center of his domain, the long first-floor hallway through which most of the city government's movers and shakers pass each day.
It is not possible to reach Mayor David N. Dinkins's corner office without turning right at Mr. Steisel's hectic headquarters. These days, to reach Mr. Dinkins himself it is usually necessary to go first to Mr. Steisel. 
 Although he has been First Deputy Mayor since Mr. Dinkins entered office three years ago, only in the last six months has Mr. Steisel emerged as the pre-eminent figure in the Mayor's inner circle of advisers at City Hall.
 
Chief Coordinator
 And late last month, he demonstrated that standing on a very public stage. While the Mayor was in Japan on a trade mission, Mr. Steisel commanded the city's emergency effort after the World Trade Center bombing, coordinating the police commanders, fire officers, environmental officials and others.
Until Mr. Dinkins returned the day after the bombing, it was Mr. Steisel who presided as the city's chief spokesman at news briefings. Normally someone who functions almost exclusively in private and behind the scenes, Mr. Steisel found himself appearing on national television as well, including "Nightline" on ABC.
Mr. Steisel's rise in the administration is the result of the Mayor's growing trust in him, many senior mayoral advisers say, and of the departure of another Deputy Mayor, Bill Lynch, a longtime confidant of Mr. Dinkins's who left the administration last summer to work for the state Democratic Committee and is now the Mayor's campaign manager. Some say City Hall has missed Mr. Lynch's deft political touch, but others say Mr. Steisel's emergence has helped to streamline decision-making.
Mr. Steisel, who began in government 24 years ago as a budget analyst, has made his mark as a manager, someone whose intellect and passions are engaged by matters like closing budget deficits and increasing workers' productivity. He first came to public attention a decade ago, when as Sanitation Commissioner under Mayor Edward I. Koch, he won an arbitrator's order to reduce three-member garbage crews to two-member crews.
His admirers call him a superb technician, a problem solver with a deep understanding of government. Critics contend, though, that he does not exhibit a consistent strategic vision or a subtle political sensibility.
 
An Internal Referee
 Mr. Steisel insists that he is most interested in broad questions of policy and planning, but that the insistent demands of daily events often overwhelm his time and attention. "I probably spend most of my time firefighting problems, far too much of my time," he said. "Things sort of pop up on my desk."
As First Deputy Mayor, Mr. Steisel is responsible for planning broad policy on matters vital to the Mayor, including the budget, labor relations and health care. He also gets involved in planning for agencies overseen by the five other deputy mayors when significant issues arise, and he serves as a kind of internal referee when agencies disagree on a matter.
In a recent span of a few days, he presided at meetings or had long phone conversations on these issues, among many others: efforts to obtain more Federal aid or to get changes in Federal rules that might save the city money; creation of a new agency to run homeless shelters; relations with Jewish social-service agencies in Brooklyn; compliance with Federal clean-air standards; personnel management in the agency that oversees abused or neglected children; efforts by the administration and labor leaders to increase productivity in six agencies, and obtain City Council approval of legislation that would overhaul taxi regulations.
Through it all, he combines the erudition of a Harvard professor of management with the charm of a New York cabby, a combination his admirers say is precisely what is needed to move an institution as large and unwieldy as municipal government.
"Norman doesn't talk, he growls," said Betsy Gotbaum, the Parks Commissioner, who is an old friend.
"It's great fun working with Norman," Ms. Gotbaum said. "He's very smart. He's got a very good sense of humor. He'll go after me and I'll go after him. I respect his knowledge. I don't always agree with him. We have fights, but that's all right."
 
Feistiness and Feuding
 But what friends and some colleagues view as feistiness and sarcastic wit, other senior city officials sometimes see as impatience and arrogance. At a private meeting recently with senior officials on efforts to get more Federal aid for the city, Mr. Steisel needled a deputy budget director about whether a promised memo would include any new ideas. The aide bristled at his sarcasm.
"He can be very curt," said a senior adviser. "Norman can put people down, be very dismissive."
In one notable example that recently came to public attention, Mr. Steisel and Barbara J. Sabol, who heads the city's huge social services agency, feuded bitterly over how to improve the management of the city's services for the homeless and other poor people. Mrs. Sabol, in one memo, told Mr. Steisel that she had "come to expect demeaning and inappropriate responses from your office."
Mr. Steisel acknowledged that he can sometimes be brusque and impatient. "It's probably true," he said. "I don't tolerate fools kindly." But he also said he tried hard to listen to people and to take their thoughts into account.
When people re-argue an issue long past an appropriate point or fail to do what is in the Mayor's best interest, he said, "That's when I think I can be dismissive and perhaps even rude."
 
Earning Mayor's Trust
 Mr. Dinkins himself -- whose public manner is extremely courtly, though he too can be sharp with his staff in private -- dismissed the debate over Mr. Steisel's personal style. "Norman is terrific," he said. "He's a lot more patient than some people think."
"He's not supposed to be a diplomat," the Mayor said. "He's the guy who often has to deliver the bad news. He is perhaps not as diplomatic as some, but he's an awful lot more diplomatic than a lot of people I know."
Mr. Dinkins's trust in Mr. Steisel is now described by one senior adviser as "enormous." But when the Mayor took office in January 1990, Mr. Steisel was the only one of the four initial deputy mayors who had not also worked for Mr. Dinkins when he was Manhattan Borough President, and it took time for Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Steisel to forge their relationship.
Mr. Steisel's standing was also affected by the extremely strong bond between Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Lynch, who was deputy mayor for inter-governmental affairs and who had previously run Mr. Dinkins's mayoral campaign and served as his chief of staff when he was Borough President. Mr. Lynch's ties to the Mayor lent him the aura of a co-first Deputy Mayor, even if he lacked the title or the administrative authority of Mr. Steisel, who had had far more experience in city government.
But Mr. Lynch has been gone from City Hall since last summer and is putting together Mr. Dinkins's re-election operation. The Mayor and Mr. Steisel, along with other deputy mayors and many commissioners, said they talk on the phone constantly with Mr. Lynch, but his absence from City Hall has altered the internal dynamic of the Dinkins administration, many senior members said.
Mr. Steisel, who already oversaw a broad swath of the government, has taken on one of Mr. Lynch's major responsibilities, inter-governmental affairs, which includes relations with the City Council, Albany and Washington on everything from taxes to school aid to health care.
And with Mr. Lynch gone as a daily presence at City Hall -- as another center of power within the inner circle -- Mr. Steisel has consolidated his standing as the adviser on whom the Mayor leans most heavily and in whom he confides most often, many colleagues said.
 
Effect Measured Differently
 There is disagreement within the administration on whether his rise has affected city policies. Several officials said they felt the absence of Mr. Lynch's more gentle, consensual style, and his broad contacts in New York neighborhoods, when the Mayor was under attack last fall from Hasidic Jews in Crown Heights for his handling of racial violence in their area in 1991.
But other city officials said that decision-making seemed to be simplified in City Hall now that Mr. Steisel was firmly in charge. "It is such a sense of calm now -- everything is so much more relaxed," said a senior member of the administration. "There seems to be a lot less dissension, tension, being pulled in different directions."
Before, many officials said, any major matter would require the approval of both Mr. Steisel and Mr. Lynch. Though both tried to work cooperatively and often did, their different temperaments and backgrounds inevitably created tensions.
Mr. Steisel, a chemical engineer by training, has a short attention span. Mr. Lynch, a former community organizer and political operative, is extremely patient. "They could not be more different, except that they are both very strong-willed," said a senior mayoral adviser.
In any case, recent events have shown strong signs of Mr. Steisel's influence. He was quite proud, for example, of an agreement last month with sanitation workers to work longer garbage-collection routes and to be more productive in other ways.
City Hall has been rife with rumors that Mr. Steisel was looking for a new job, that he had grown tired of the 12-hour days, the 7-day weeks and the incessant crises that are the lot of a deputy mayor. He routinely declines to discuss the rumors, although he did say in a recent interview, "I've had from time to time offers of employment outside government."
Many of his colleagues said they assume Mr. Steisel will remain at least through the mayoral election. And despite his brusque manner, many senior mayoral advisers said they would miss him if he did move on. "I think he is genuinely a nice person," a colleague said. "Used to drive me crazy in the beginning, but I've really grown to like him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel has emerged as the pre-eminent figure in the Dinkins administration, as demonstrated most recently by his command of the city's emergency effort after the World Trade Center bombing. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Chart: "Profile: Norman Steisel"
 
Born: May 20, 1942, Brooklyn.
 
Education: Brooklyn Technical High School; bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Pratt Institute, 1963; master's degree in engineering and applied science from Yale University, 1965.
 
Career: Budget analyst, Bureau of the Budget, New York City, 1969-1972; Director, Policy Analysis Division, Police Commissioner's office, 1972-1974; vice president of Griffenhagen-Kroeger Inc., a private management-consultant company, 1974-1976; First Deputy Budget Director, New York City, 1976-1978; Sanitation Commissioner, 1978-1986; senior vice president, Lazard Freres & Company, 1986-1989; chairman, New York City School Construction Authority, 1988-1990; First Deputy Mayor, 1990-present.
 
Family: Married to Elizabeth Porter; two stepdaughters, Amanda and Hillary LaForge.
 
Interests: Tennis, cooking, movies. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JAPAN UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; EXPLOSIVES; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BOMBINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); POLITICS (66%); BUDGETS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; STEISEL, NORMAN (DEPUTY MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



231 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Low Mexico Jobless Rate Is Deceptive

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
Mexicans are coming across the border by the millions, seeking work in the United States. And sidewalk vendors abound in every large Mexican city. Yet despite this evidence of people without jobs, the Government reports that the country's unemployment rate is only 2.9 percent. What's more, it is falling.
Not since 1953, when the Korean War brought boom times to the United States, have Americans had a rate so low. The Mexican economy is hardly enjoying similar prosperity. Rather than measuring national well-being, a 2.9 percent unemployment rate in a nation marked more by poverty than prosperity suggests to some Mexicans that the Western world's method of measuring unemployment is wildly unrealistic for developing countries. 
 That is certainly the view among several Mexican newspaper columnists, whose reactions to the Government's unemployment figure can be acid. "In more developed countries, the unemployment rate is 7 percent or more," Benito Solis Mendoza, a columnist for El Financiero, wrote recently, referring to the United States' 7.1 percent jobless rate in January. "One could conclude that in order for a country to advance, it has to raise its unemployment level!"
 
 
Scramble for Money
 That is partly true. Mexico, like the United States and most other Western nations, adheres to the definition of employment set forth by the International Labor Organization. In the organization's view, anyone who works one hour a week or more, and receives some income for this effort, is employed.
But in Mexico, where neither unemployment insurance, nor food stamps nor any other Government safety net exists for the unemployed, people have to scramble for money. And as they scramble, they end up listed as employed by the National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Information.
"In Mexico, where there is no unemployment insurance, it is a luxury that people cannot afford to stay without work," said Carlos M. Jarque, director of the Institute of Statistics. The unemployment rate, in fact, has fallen from 3.9 percent in 1987 to 2.9 percent today, perhaps an indication that times have gotten worse for Mexicans rather than better.
 
 
Street Vendors and Jugglers
 Many Mexicans without salaried jobs enter the vast off-the-books economy as street vendors or kiosk operators or even juggling three balls at street corners for drivers stopped at red lights, a not uncommon sight. If a driver gives a juggler a few pesos for the performance, that juggler becomes, for the Institute of Statistics, a person with work.
Half of the unemployed in the United States, in contrast, receive unemployment insurance, which means they are not under as much pressure as Mexicans to hustle for income, says Thomas J. Plewes, an associate commissioner of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.
In the bureau's survey of 62,000 American households each month, the respondents are more likely than Mexicans to meet the labor organization's definition of a jobless person: actively looking for a job but without spending even one hour to earn income while job hunting.
A similar survey conducted by Mexico's Institute of Statistics covers 135,000 households a month in 34 cities and uncovers very few people not hustling to earn some money.
 
 
Half of Workers Salaried
 There are other yawning differences that help to explain why Mexicans are likely, in the view of Mr. Jarque and other Government officials, to continue to migrate to the United States in huge numbers long after a free trade agreement becomes a reality.
Only 13.5 million people, or 56 percent of the 24 million people in Mexico's labor force, draw salaries from legal companies or the Government. Only these people qualify for social security benefits in old age. By comparison, more than 80 percent of the 124 million people in the American labor force draw wages and salaries from corporate or government employers, and most Americans qualify for Social Security.
More important, the number of Mexican wage earners in the legal economy has stopped growing since 1991, despite the influx of foreign companies establishing manufacturing operations in Mexico. "Their hiring in recent years has been offset by cutbacks in government jobs and other layoffs," said Nestor de Buen Lozano, a labor lawyer.
 
 
Earnings Minimal for Many
 By measures other than the unemployment rate, hardship in Mexico is double, triple or quadruple what it is in the United States.
The percentage of Mexicans earning only the minimum wage of 14 pesos a day, or $4.70, is 18 percent of those listed as working, whatever their task. More significantly, roughly half of the work force -- in the legal or illegal economy -- earns what Mexican officials describe as two minimum wages or less. That is 28 pesos, or $9.40 cents a day.
"If you already own a house, a family of four people can live on a double minimum, but not well," said Gustavo Ponce Melendez, a Labor Department official. Many Mexicans say that even a small Mexican household, four people or fewer, requires at least 50 pesos a day in income, or nearly $17, to get by.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); WRITERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); KOREAN WAR (56%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



232 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Yen Bonds To Be Offered By New York

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Big Apple is going Japanese. New York City said yesterday that it had decided to include about $150 million worth of yen-denominated bonds in its spring bond sale.
The city's decision to sell what are known in the business as Samurai bonds is one borrowing innovation that municipalities are considering in efforts to reduce their costs. This will be the first bond sale by the city in any foreign currency. 
 By selling yen-denominated bonds in Japan, the city is following the example of corporations, which have already been selling their bonds in other countries and currencies. Denominating some New York City bonds in yen makes them easier to sell in Japan than bonds denominated in dollars.
Innovations like yen-denominated bonds are also beneficial for the investment bankers who work with the city, because doing new kinds of deals brings in more revenue. In fact, a lot of the new deals done by companies or municipalities start with the vision of investment bankers looking for ways to help their customers and to increase their own fees.
While the $150 million in New York City Samurai bonds is only a small part of the approximately $750 million of bonds scheduled to be sold this month, the sale uses high-finance techniques like currency swaps and interest-rate swaps, which protect the city from adverse fluctuations in the value of the dollar against the yen.
"This is the beginning of what we hope to be the expertise to take advantage of borrowing in other countries in the future," the New York City Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, said yesterday in an interview. "It is very important for New York City to be as sophisticated as possible," she added, listing some other innovations, like floating-rate notes, she has tried in an effort to broaden the market for city bonds.
Ms. Holtzman said the city could save about $1 million in interest costs over the life of the bonds by doing the Japanese sale, although the final details have not been set.
 
 
Trips to Japan
 New York City has been considering such a sale for several months. Ms. Holtzman made a trip to Japan in January to present the city's case to large Japanese investment firms. Mayor David N. Dinkins was in Japan last month.
For the city, the real benefits of the sale may not come from this deal. The test will be whether it can develop this idea and begin to market itself abroad. The savings will then come from obtaining lower interest rates in other countries and from relying less on its regular domestic market.
Because of the complexity of the financings in this deal, the city had to watch several factors to determine if selling the Samurai bonds would produce any savings. Those factors include the strength of the dollar and the level of interest rates in the United States and Japan. The rates not only affect the cost of the currency swaps, but they determine how attractive New York City yields will be to Japanese investors.
 
 
Protection From Currency Shifts
 Under the proposal, a complicated transaction called a swap will protect the city against currency fluctuations and will turn the fixed interest rate the city is paying Japanese investors into a floating-rate obligation for the city. The floating rate will be based on the London interbank offered rate, which is a little over 3 percent now. The interest rate to be paid the Japanese will depend on the bond maturities chosen.
Darcy Bradbury, the Deputy Comptroller for Finance, said the floating-rate bonds that are swapped for the Samurai bonds are expected to have an interest rate, depending on the maturity, of between 100 to 125 basis points over the London interbank offered rate. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
"The economic conditions are getting very attractive," she said about the sale, but added one caveat: If the conditions suddenly shifted, the city would change its mind. "But we haven't seen anything that would indicate that this isn't something we should do," she said.
 
 
Treasury Market
 Treasury prices gyrated violently in light trading yesterday, as yields on the 30-year bond and on Treasury notes bounced around in wide ranges.
By the end of the day, the yield on the 30-year bond had slipped to 6.72 percent, down from 6.73 percent on Friday. As has been the case in recent weeks, the drop in yield reached a new low since the Treasury started regularly issuing 30-year bonds in 1977. The price was up 7/32 point.
But the yield had fallen as low as 6.65 percent as the bond made price gains in overseas trading. And as the rally faltered in the afternoon, the yield shot up to 6.74 percent.
Treasury notes followed the same volatile pattern. The yield on the 10-year note ended at 5.85 percent, down from 5.87 percent on Friday. But the yield traded in a range of 5.72 to 5.88 percent.
Traders said the market appeared to get a lift, both in overseas trading and in New York in the morning, from reports that Democrats in Congress had decided on a package of spending reductions to add to Mr. Clinton's deficit-reduction program.
But in the afternoon, there was some profit taking as prices moved higher. In the intermediate Treasuries, traders said that some selling may have followed another look at Friday's employment data and a decision that it might have been as strong as it looked. If that is the case, intermediate prices are high and yields are a little low.
Traders also said that the lightness of trading exaggerated the price and yield movements.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction yesterday of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.247	98.438	Discounted Rate	2.98%	3.09%	Coupon Yield	3.04%	3.18%	High Price	99.252	98.448	Discounted Rate	2.96%	3.07%	Coupon Yield	3.02%	3.16%	Low Price	99.247	99.438	Discounted Rate	2.98%	3.09%	coupon Yield	3.04%	3.18%	Accepted at low price	50%	86%	Total applied for	$42,417,975	$42,955,390	Accepted	$11,699,420	$11,675,630	N.Y. applied for	$38,213,030	$39,381,615	N.Y. accepted	$9,793,4750	$10,588,535	Noncompetitive	$1,391,055	$967,815	

Both issues are dated March 11, 1993. The three-month bills mature on June 10, 1993, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 9, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction since November 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BONDS (92%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); DEBT NOTES (65%); INTERVIEWS (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



233 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Marriott-Bondholder Accord Seen as Near

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
The Marriott Corporation said yesterday that it expects to reach an agreement with bondholders, perhaps as early as this week, that would allay their objections to Marriott's plan to split the company in two. But some bondholders said they would pursue their lawsuits against the hotel company, which they have accused of securities fraud.
Robert Souers, vice president of corporation information for Marriott, said any agreement "would be one that makes the bondholders more comfortable with our plan of action, but at the same time doesn't effectively change what we plan to do." 
 Marriott has proposed splitting its real estate operations from its hotel management business. It proposes that Host Marriott, the real estate operation, would inherit most of the Marriott Corporation's $2.9 billion debt, including almost $2 billion in bonds, leaving Marriott International virtually debt free.
 
$600 Million Backup Credit
 The corporation agreed to provide Host Marriott with a $600 million backup credit line through 1997, if needed. But the major institutional bondholders -- the California Public Employees Retirement System, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association and Investors Diversified Services -- objected to the split, fearing that Host Marriott could not meet the annual $225 million interest payments.
Yesterday, the company refused to elaborate on recent reports in industry publications that the pending agreement with bondholders would shift some debt from Host Marriott to Marriott International.
An agreement to shift some debt to Marriott International would likely allay the fears of bondholders, but at the risk of depriving Marriott International of the flexibility and lack of indebtedness that was sought for it to pursue additional business. Under the original proposal, Marriott International would retain existing management contracts with some 750 hotels and motels and with 3,000 corporate and institutional cafeterias.
 
Real Estate Tax Revision
 Most of Marriott's debt accumulated from the company's ownership of hotels built before the 1986 tax revision law eliminated most real estate tax shelters. The recent recession further depressed property values, so that Marriott has been stuck with interest charges on some 140 hotels that it has been unable to sell. Host Marriott would inherit those hotels, along with their debt.
Whatever the terms of the new proposal, eight institutional bondholders plan to pursue their lawsuits, which are pending in United States District Court in Baltimore. The suits accuse Marriott and three top officers of securities fraud for selling bonds last spring without informing investors of their intention to split the company. Immediately after Marriott announced the split, the price of its 20-year bonds tumbled 30 percent.
"We intend to vigorously prosecute the action," said Lawrence Kill, the attorney for PPM America Inc., whose clients hold more than $120 million in Marriott bonds. "Our clients have been damaged substantially, and to the extent we understand the Marriott proposal, it is woefully inadequate."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (98%); HST (NYSE) (93%); AMP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (98%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (98%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (69%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT CORP; MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (98%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (93%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (69%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (69%); PPM AMERICA INC (60%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (55%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT CORP; MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; CORPORATE BONDS REAL ESTATE (91%); LITIGATION (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (86%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (52%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



234 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Say States May Make Union-Only Pacts in Public-Works Projects

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8

 BODY:
The Supreme Court today validated a union-only master labor agreement for the $6 billion cleanup of Boston Harbor in a unanimous decision that cleared the way for states to use an increasingly popular tool for insuring labor peace on major public-works projects.
The decision in the closely watched case was a victory for organized labor. Justice Harry A. Blackmun's opinion for the Court overturned a decision by the Federal appeals court in Boston, which ruled in 1991 that the agreement violated Federal labor law. 
 The Massachusetts Water Resources Authority, the state agency in charge of the harbor cleanup, and an alliance of the construction trades unions both appealed the lower court's ruling. They were supported in the Supreme Court by the Bush Administration, despite an intense effort by the group of nonunionized contractors that had brought the initial court challenge to persuade the White House to switch sides before the case was argued in December.
The question for the Court was whether the National Labor Relations Act pre-empted the state's decision to enter into a collective bargaining agreement known as a project labor agreement, which includes a guarantee of union-only labor in exchange for a 10-year no-strike pledge.
 
State as Private Owner
 Under the agreement, first proposed to the state agency by the project manager, Kaiser Engineers Inc., all contractors and subcontractors have to agree to be bound by the terms and to use the hiring halls of the Boston-area Building and Construction Trades Council, a union group, as their source for workers. Any nonunion workers who are hired have to join the appropriate craft union within seven days.
Ordinarily, state and local governments are barred from interfering with labor-management relations in areas that are supposed to be left to the "free play of economic forces," as the Court put it in a 1976 ruling on labor law pre-emption. In a 1986 decision that the appeals court relied on to invalidate the Boston Harbor agreement, the Court ruled that the City of Los Angeles could not condition the renewal of a taxi company's operating license on the settlement of a labor dispute.
But in this case, the Justices accepted the argument of the state agency and the labor unions that Massachusetts was acting not in the prohibited role of a regulator but rather on its own behalf as the owner of the project. As such, the state argued, it should be entitled to the same flexibility that private participants in the labor market would have. A provision of the National Labor Relations Act that applies only to the construction industry permits employers to enter into union-only hiring agreements.
Justice Blackmun said today that "in the absence of any express or implied indication by Congress that a state may not manage its own property when it pursues its purely proprietary interests, and where analogous private conduct would be permitted, this Court will not infer such a restriction."
 
Late Reversal by Bush
 Massachusetts is under a Federal court order to stop polluting Boston Harbor. One of the biggest public-works programs in the country, the 10-year project includes the construction of primary and secondary sewage treatment plants, a five-mile-long tunnel to carry sewage for treatment and a 9.5-mile tunnel for the effluent. For the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority, the attraction of the project labor agreement was its promise of labor peace, making possible the uninterrupted work necessary to meet the terms of the Federal court order.
Project labor agreements are also being used in dozens of other public works projects, including the construction of a commuter rail system in California and the rehabilitation of the tunnel under the Baltimore harbor.
The Bush Administration was not initially involved in the Boston Harbor case, Building Trades Council v. Associated Builders, No. 91-261. Asked later by the Court for its views, the Administration told the Justices that the ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit was wrong and that the issue was an important one of states' rights within the framework of Federal labor law.
The Bush White House held to this position despite active lobbying by the Associated Builders and Contractors, a trade organization of nonunion contractors. To satisfy the group before the November election, President Bush signed an executive order on Oct. 23 declaring that Federal agencies would no longer award contracts for projects with union-only labor agreements. The executive order had no effect on the Boston Harbor project, and President Clinton repealed it on Feb. 1.
There were also these developments at the Court today:
 
Louisiana Abortion
 Without comment or noted dissent, the Court turned down Louisiana's appeal of a Federal appeals court ruling that declared its criminal abortion law unconstitutional.
The state law, enacted in 1991 over the veto of Gov. Buddy Roemer, outlawed abortion except to save a pregnant woman's life or, during the first three months of pregnancy, in cases or rape or incest that had previously been reported to the police. The law also had the effect of outlawing some kinds of birth control.
The Louisiana law never took effect because it was declared unconstitutional by a Federal District Court in Louisiana and by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans. Last September, the appeals court found the law "clearly unconstitutional" under the Supreme Court's ruling in a case from Pennsylvania last June that reaffirmed the constitutional right to abortion.
This was the second decision concerning a criminal abortion law that the High Court has refused to review since its ruling in the Pennsylvania case. In November, the Court let stand a ruling that Guam's law was unconstitutional. Gov. Edwin W. Edwards of Louisiana and Harry Connick, the New Orleans prosecutor, filed appeals in the Louisiana case soon after that. (Edwards v. Sojourner T., No. 92-1066).
 
Drug Supplies
 The Court agreed to hear a constitutional challenge to a Federal law, the Mail Order Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, that makes it a crime to sell drug paraphernalia. The law defines drug paraphernalia as equipment or products "primarily intended or designed for use" in manufacturing or ingesting controlled substances.
The case, Posters 'n' Things v. U.S., No. 92-903, was brought by the owner of an Iowa retail business that was found by a Federal jury to have violated the law by selling, among other things, chemicals commonly used in the manufacture of illegal drugs. The principal issue in the case is whether the law requires a specific finding that the retailer intended the products to be used illegally. In this case, the jury was instructed that the seller's intent was irrelevant.
 
Fugitive's Appeal
 The Court ruled, 5 to 4, that a person who flees after a criminal conviction and is then recaptured does not necessarily forfeit the right to appeal his conviction.
The decision, Ortega-Rodriguez v. U.S., No. 91-7749, overturned a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta. That court had dismissed an appeal of a drug conviction on the ground that the defendant should be punished for having fled before his original sentencing.
In the majority opinion today, Justice John Paul Stevens said that dismissal was appropriate only when the defendant's flight had actually interfered with the appellate process. Justices Blackmun, Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, and David H. Souter joined the majority opinion. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist dissented in an opinion joined by Justices Byron R. White, Sandra Day O'Connor, and Clarence Thomas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Justice Harry A. Blackmun, whose opinion yesterday that Massachusetts was acting not as regulator but as proprietor overturned a decision by the Federal appeals court in Boston. Justice John Paul Stevens wrote the Court's opinion that dismissal of a convicted felon's right to appeal was appropriate when the defendant's flight had interfered with the appellate process. (Photographs by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (54%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) ICF KAISER ENGINEERS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS ; LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LABOR; NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT; LABOR UNIONS; STRIKES; ABORTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MAIL ORDER DRUG PARAPHERNALIA CONTROL ACT; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS LABOR UNIONS (91%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); APPEALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (60%); ABORTION (59%); WATER QUALITY (55%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



235 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON MAY SEEK LID ON DOCTOR FEES AND LIABILITY SUITS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8

 BODY:
As part of their effort to control health costs, Clinton Administration officials are considering asking Congress to impose restrictions on medical malpractice lawsuits and limits on doctors' fees.
No decisions have been made. The proposals, under study by health policy experts at the White House, have not been endorsed by Mr. Clinton or reviewed for their political acceptability. 
 But confidential work papers from the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform show that the Administration is seriously considering many proposals to limit lawsuits and payments for injuries caused by doctors' negligence.
 
Heated Debate a Certainty
 Doctors support many of the malpractice proposals, which grow out of the movement to curb liability lawsuits and are favored by conservative critics of the legal profession like former Vice President Dan Quayle. But doctors oppose fee limits' being an element of the plan that President Clinton is to send Congress by May 1.
The President has said he wants Congress to approve his proposals this year, but the legislation is sure to be complex and hotly debated.
A White House group studying medical malpractice says the current method of compensating injured patients and disciplining doctors "has produced only a litigation lottery."
 
Some Ideas Already Tried
 Among the ideas under consideration, some of which have been tried at the state level, are these:
*Limit damages for a patient's "pain and suffering."
*Reduce damages to take account of any money the patient gets from insurance or workers' compensation.
*Allow doctors to make payments periodically, over a number of years, rather than in a lump sum.
*Encourage patients to settle claims through arbitration rather than trials.
Supporters of such measures say they have produced benefits when tried in some states, particularly California.
In the context of major changes in the health-care system, the documents say, consumers "might accept some modification of their legally prescribed rights, some reduction in their potential financial recovery or some change in fact-finding procedures" in exchange for an assurance that they would be paid for injuries resulting from a doctor's treatment.
A White House official said Mr. Clinton was trying to balance concerns of doctors and trial lawyers.
In the 1992 campaign, President George Bush and Mr. Quayle charged that Democrats were under the influence of trial lawyers.
Ellen S. Miller, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group, said members of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America gave $478,929 to Mr. Clinton in primary elections last year, compared with $75,015 in contributions to Mr. Bush.
In the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he would "reform medical malpractice laws" to take disputes out of the court system and to reduce the number of tests ordered by doctors.
 
Diverse Task Force
 The task force, headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, has a staff of 300 to 400 people, divided into more than 30 committees. The panel studying malpractice is headed by Dr. Robert Berenson, a physician, and Kathleen Hastings, a lawyer and nurse. Dr. Berenson is a member of the Jackson Hole Group, an organization of health-care executives and policy analysts who are trying to mix free-market economics with Government regulation.
President Clinton has adopted many tenets of the Jackson Hole Group, named for its Wyoming meeting place. His plan would, for example, encourage people to get care from health-maintenance organizations and other networks of doctors and hospitals.
But work papers from the task force show that the Administration is considering a proposal that would give everybody access to at least one "free-choice plan." In such a plan, consumers could choose their doctors and pay a separate fee for each service they used.
Explaining the reason for this proposal, the staff of the task force says, in a confidential summary of its work, "Many members of the public want to select their own physician." In addition, it says, "physicians may feel more comfortable" if consumers are free to choose their doctors.
On the other hand, it says, "Free-choice plans are a major part of the problem that we wish to solve."
 
Cost of Malpractice
 Clinton Administration officials, like many health economists, assert that conventional fee-for-service arrangements give doctors an incentive to perform unneeded services, because the doctors are paid separately for each service. By contrast, a health-maintenance organization gets a flat monthly payment, or premium, for each person enrolled in its plan. Health-policy experts say H.M.O.'s have strong incentives to control costs, eliminate unnecessary services and provide preventive care.
The Federal Government says doctors spend $5 billion to $6 billion a year on malpractice insurance premiums, with hospitals spending half again as much. But malpractice premiums account for less than 1 percent of national health spending.
The American Medical Association says that "defensive medicine," which includes ordering extra tests and procedures, costs more than $15 billion a year. But the Congressional Budget Office says many of those tests and procedures "would probably be undertaken for other reasons." Moreover, it says, "the threat of malpractice suits may have improved the quality of medical practice."
Documents from the task force show that White House officials are considering stringent limits on doctors' fees.The panel is considering a national fee schedule like the one now used in Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly.
"Presumably," says one document, "the fee schedule would pertain to all payers: Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and consumers paying out of pocket." The fee schedule could specify the amount that a doctor gets for each service, or it could set a ceiling. Private insurers typically pay 40 percent to 50 percent more than Medicare. Medicaid, the Federal-state program for low-income people, typically pays at least 30 percent less than Medicare.
The task force has not decided who should set doctors' fees. In one document, the staff of the task force said the Federal Government might set fees for the first few years. Then regional consumer groups, known as health insurance purchasing cooperatives, could set fees while bargaining with doctors and hospitals on behalf of consumers.
 
Campaign Is Recalled
 In the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he would set an annual limit on all health spending, public and private. The work papers show that the Administration is considering not only a rigid "cap on all expenditures," but also flexible goals for spending. If, for example, health spending exceeded the goal by 3 percent, "we could decrease hospital and physician payment rates by 3 percent," the work papers say.
The limits on health spending would not prevent affluent people from buying extra care.
Officers of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States met today with Ira C. Magaziner, a White House aide managing day-to-operations of the task force. Robert E. Patricelli, chairman of the chamber's committee on health and employee benefits, said the organization could support Federal legislation to require employers to provide health benefits to their workers, "provided there is a Government subsidy to help small businesses with a high proportion of low-wage workers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MALPRACTICE; DOCTORS; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); NEGLIGENCE (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (64%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



236 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Zaire: Two Leaders, Many Problems, Few Hopes

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, March 7

 BODY:
Two men now say they have the authority to rule this sprawling, impoverished nation, and their battle for control has paralyzed the Government and cast doubt about its future stability.
On one side, President Mobutu Sese Seko has denounced Prime Minister Etienne Tshisekedi as a bully and a megalomaniac, and suggested that Mr. Tshisekedi, 61, is mentally incompetent. The Prime Minister has countered by calling the President a "Zairian Caligula" who has kept his grip on this country for 28 years "without law, morals or principles." 
 Mr. Mobutu and his dwindling group of supporters control the national treasury, the huge state security apparatus and the armed forces. Mr. Tshisekedi ostensibly has the backing of the legislature, the High Council, which is dominated by the President's political opponents.
 
Unusually Odd Bedfellows
 So rather than keeping their distance, as feuding rivals might, Mr. Tshisekedi and Mr. Mobutu have been forced to run the Government together in an increasingly awkward power-sharing arrangement.
And the future of Zaire seems to hinge on whether their seemingly irreconcilable differences can be peacefully resolved. For the time being, the prospects look grim.
On Tuesday Mr. Mobutu and the High Council are to meet to try to unravel the contorted stalemate.
The two men met more than 30 years ago, and when Mr. Mobutu, who is a year or two older, siezed power in a coup in 1965, Mr. Tshisekedi was his Interior Minister. Mr. Tshisekedi helped draft the 1967 Constitution that established Zaire's one-party system.
In 1980 the alliance crumbled, and Mr. Tshisekedi was dismissed, exiled and imprisoned on several occasions over the next decade.
In 1991, while Mr. Tshisekedi was under house arrest, Mr. Mobutu included him in a new coalition Government. A month later, the President dismissed him. Last month, after Zaire's chief creditors -- France, Belgium and the United States -- insisted that Mr. Mobutu keep his promise to transfer power to a transitional government led by Mr. Tshisekedi, the President again tried to dismiss him.
President Mobutu also accused Mr. Tshisekedi of inciting mutinous soldiers to pillage the capital last month. Hundreds, including the French Ambassador, were killed.
 
5 Million, and Counting
 The issue was pay. In two waves of rioting, the armed troops protested being paid in new banknotes issued by the Central Bank, which is under the President's control.
In the second protest, the soldiers occupied the parliament building, trapping members inside and demanding that they approve the new banknotes, which were denominated 5 million zaires, or about $2. Following Mr. Tshisekedi's advice, merchants were refusing to accept the currency.
When Mr. Mobutu and the High Council meet on Tuesday, the Council will almost certainly insist that Mr. Tshisekedi remain as Prime Minister. And Mr. Mobutu will almost certainly insist Mr. Tshisekedi be dismissed.
Mr. Tshisekedi calls Mr. Mobutu's accusations of fomenting mutiny "insane, the ludicrous ravings of a dictator." Moreover, he insists that only the High Council can dismiss him.
"I am still Prime Minister, and I intend to remain so," he said during an interview in his cramped office in the rear of his modest home here.
 
Potential Is Rich
 The Prime Minister's ceremonial office in Gombe, a quiet neighborhood of opulent residences, is surrounded by armed members of the Presidential Guard, who have barred Mr. Tshisekedi and his staff.
The former Belgian colony's nightmarish economic and social problems have accumulated over 30 years of mismanagement and corruption.
Zaire is one of the world's major producers of copper and cobalt. It also has vast forests, plenty of rainfall and farming conditions suitable for cotton, rubber, coffee, palm oil and sugar, but these, along with its logging and hydroelectric potential, are largely undeveloped, and much of the modern industry was destroyed in the arson and looting that began in September 1991.
Thus the population has grown increasingly poor, while the President has profited on a grand scale since he took office.
 
Worst of Two Worlds
 A confidential State Department memorandum last month warned that Zaire was developing into "Somalia and Liberia rolled into one, with vast potential for immense refugee flows, regional destabilization and humanitarian disaster."
And never far below the surface are questions about whether a few generals are waiting to intervene if they decide this is all too disorderly.
In recent years, fears about military intervention have proved to be exaggerated. But anything could happen, especially if the soldiers are not paid on time. The decision in 1991 to allow Mr. Tshisekedi to assume a post in the coalition came after a week of looting and violence touched off by mutinous soldiers who were angry because they had not been paid.
Mr. Tshisekedi's return in September 1991, after seven weeks of political negotiating, hardly ended the violence, despite the fact that opponents to Mr. Mobutu got six of the 11 seats in what was to be a multiparty Cabinet.
 
Careers Intertwined
 Etienne Wa Malumba Tshisekedi (pronounced chee-SAY-kay-dee), a thickset man with a gravelly voice who comes close to being autocratic in style, presents himself as Zaire's long-suffering fighter for democracy.
Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Tshisekedi was Minister of Justice for the Congo, as the country was then called, when its charismatic Prime Minister, Patrice Lumumba, was killed in January 1961. It was also during this period that Mr. Tshisekedi first met Joseph Desire, a politically ambitious soldier who seized power in a bloodless coup in 1965 and who would later change his name to Mobutu Sese Seko.
Mr. Tshisekedi also served as Ambassador to Morocco and as national secretary of the ruling party and chairman of its political division.
 
Tracing the Break
 He has told various stories of how he broke with Mr. Mobutu. At one point he said the idea had risen spontaneously after soldiers killed nearly 50 students in Katekalay, a village in Kasai province, where they were prospecting for diamonds on land that the President considered his private domain.
At other times Mr. Tshisekedi has said he was a committed democrat all along, and quietly resisted efforts to turn Zaire into a dictatorship until he was outflanked by Mr. Mobutu.
In any event, in December 1980, Mr. Tshisekedi was one of 13 members of Parliament who signed a 51-page letter accusing Mr. Mobutu of an autocratic rule that had divided Zaire between "a few privileged people, scandalously rich" and the "mass of the people, wallowing in misery and counting only on international relief to survive as best they can."
For this, the 13 were stripped of their civil and political rights and exiled deep into Zaire's vast interior.
 
A Choice Means Treason
 In 1982 the group was convicted of treason for trying to form a second political party, the Union for Democracy and Social Progress and sentenced to 15 years in prison.
After his release in 1983 in a general amnesty, Mr. Tshisekedi suffered eight years of official harassment, during which he was arrested at least a dozen times and sent into internal exile twice. In one incident he was badly beaten by soldiers in front of a luxury hotel in Kinshasa only a few feet from a group of United States legislators on a human rights investigative mission.
But in the face of street disturbances and growing demands for greater democracy even from some of his staunchest supporters, in April 1990 Mr. Mobutu lifted the 20-year ban on opposition parties, opening Zaire to a multiparty government. Within months, dozens of opposition parties officially registered and, after forming a loose coalition, elected Mr. Tshisekedi as its leader. And Mr. Tshisekedi seemed the natural choice for Prime Minister when, in September 1991, Mr. Mobutu agreed to form a coalition government.
 
Parade of Prime Ministers
 At the time it was widely believed that Mr. Mobutu's fortunes had sunk so low that he would remain in power essentially as a figurehead presiding over a transitional government until elections were held. Since then, there has been a virtual standoff, marked by the appointment of five Prime Ministers in 18 months.
Mr. Tshisekedi spends most of his time at his private residence, surrounded by bodyguards and fawning staff members who invariably addresses him as Prime Minister.
It is a title, Mr. Tshisekedi insists, that is a "heavy burden to bear."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zaire finds itself impoverished in everything but political oratory. President Mobutu Sese Seko, center, has been denounced as a "Zairian Caligula" who has kept his grip on the country for 28 years "without law, morals or principles." He attended a 1991 meeting under heavy security. (Thierry Orban/Sygma); In the increasingly awkward power-sharing arrangement with President Mobutu, Prime Minister Etienne Tshisekedi has heard his opponents call him a bully and suggest he is mentally incompetent. (Daniel Geeraerts/Gamma-Liaison)
 
Map of Zaire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (53%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (53%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUPS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (64%); ARRESTS (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES); TSHISEKEDI, ETIENNE (PRIME MIN) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



237 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Challenged on Share of U.S. Aid Going to Israel and Egypt

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration was forced by an influential Democrat in Congress today to confront the delicate subject of whether the United States can afford to pour billions of dollars into Israel and Egypt in light of a shrinking foreign aid budget and President Clinton's determination to resuscitate the American economy.
The Administration immediately said it was committed to continuing the aid, but the mere fact that Representative David Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat, was raising the issue meant that a sacrosanct item in next year's budget, which is just beginning to be debated by Congress, could be in for new scrutiny. 
 "There are also tremendous pressures on us, given the demands of our domestic economy," said Mr. Obey, who has long taken a very hard line on foreign aid spending, during a hearing of the foreign operations subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee. "There'll be tremendous pressures on the budget because of escalating needs with respect to assistance to the Soviet Union."
"I think that demonstrates that we cannot forever assume that we're going to be providing this high percentage of this bill to the Middle Eastern region. I think we have a right to expect over time to see that decline."
 
Pressure From Constituents
 Pressure is coming from the voters back home, added Mr. Obey, who heads the subcommittee, to change the practice. "People routinely call my office and say, well, with the budget squeeze, can we expect that Israel and Egypt are going to be taking a part of that cut?"
Of the $13.9 billion foreign aid budget for 1993, $5.1 billion -- or 36 percent -- will be sent to Israel and Egypt. By contrast, total aid to Russia for the last two years was a total of $650 million. Adding strain to next year's budget is the fact that Mr. Clinton has called for an additional $300 million in additional aid for Russia, but that money must be taken away from other countries.
Mr. Obey's remarks were reminiscent of an article on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times three years ago by Senator Bob Dole, the Kansas Republican, who said that the United States was going to have to spend a lot more money in eastern Europe and that at least some of the money would have to come from long-term aid recipients like Israel and Egypt, among others.
 
Dole Rebuked on Issue
 His remarks elicited a rebuke from Senate Republicans, who asserted that he created a false impression that American support for Israel was waning.
The new Administration has signaled its unflinching support both for Israel and for the Middle East peace negotiations, and even a debate on the issue of an aid reduction would be read in Jerusalem as an effort to undermine the Government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, which took office last year.
In the hearing today, Edward P. Djerejian, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, was just as blunt as Mr. Obey in saying the new Administration had no intention of reducing aid to either country.
"Both President Clinton and Secretary Christopher have gone on record regarding the importance of continuing the aid to Israel and Egypt at the current levels," Mr. Djerejian said, referring to Secretary of State Warren Christopher. "We remain steadfast in our commitment to direct substantial foreign aid resources to the security of Israel, to support for Egypt's vital role in the stability and security of the region, and to promotion of comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East."
 
Arms Purchases Criticized
 Mr. Obey criticized the practice by which Egypt, and to a lesser extent Israel, buy vast amounts of military equipment from the United States under the assumption that there will be continuing American aid to pay for it over the years.
"It is, in fact, going to be virtually impossible for this committee to consider reductions in aid to that region over the next decade if those military contracts continue to be signed because of the principle of so-called cash flow financing," said Mr. Obey, who called on the new Administration to abandon the practice.
He also criticized both Egypt, and Israel to a lesser extent, for failing to institute the changes necessary to make their economies more healthy. "For a number of years, people have looked at the Egyptian program as being a black hole, and I think there is more than a little concern about the ability of the Israeli Government to get its own economic house in order."
 
'Moving Up the Pace'
 Mr. Djerejian gave a spirited defense of both countries' attempts at economic liberalization. But he acknowledged, "There's a serious question of moving up the pace of economic reforms in Israel, and we will be engaged on this very actively."
As for Egypt, Mr. Djerejian conceded, "The Egyptian economy remains dominated by large, inefficient public sector monopolies, the activities of private businessmen remain heavily restricted, and the regulatory environment remains extremely uncertain."
On another foreign aid issue, Mr. Djerejian said that the Clinton Administration hopes to give Jordan $50 million in security aid that has been withheld by Congress because of Jordanian support for President Saddam Hussein of Iraq after his 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
 
Sanctions Against Iraq
 Mr. Djerejian said that he will recommend shortly to Mr. Christopher that he release the funds, in part to support Jordan's helpful role in the Middle East peace negotiations. He also said that in recent months Jordan has tightened sanctions against Iraq.
During and after the Persian Gulf crisis, Jordanian officials, including King Hussein, repeatedly said the kingdom was doing all it could to enforce the sanctions. But American intelligence reports indicated that there were substantial violations of the sanctions and little policing of the border with Iraq, a situation that worsened relations between the two countries.
The decision to send the aid does not need to be approved by Congress, although there remains considerable resistance to it on Capitol Hill and it is unlikely the Administration will move on the matter without considerable consultation with Congress. Last September, the Bush Administration, after consultations with Congress, dispensed $55 million in security and economic aid to Jordan that had not gone forward in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (96%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; EGYPT UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (96%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); KANSAS, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; EGYPT-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); BUDGETS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OBEY, DAVID R (REPR); RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); DAVE OBEY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



238 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2035 words

HEADLINE: Like a New Drug, Social Programs Are Put to the Test

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
"WHAT is an ordinary member of the tribe to do when the witch doctors disagree?" Henry Aaron, an economist at the Brookings Institution, lamented in 1978.
Often not much, which is one reason Washington has seemed inclined to write off social science as special pleading. But a new breed of social scientists offers an answer more likely to satisfy the skeptics. Social policies, they assert, can be definitively tested in controlled experiments using randomly selected subjects, much the way drug companies test new treatments for asthma or arthritis or hypertension. 
 Such experiments are not always practical or, for that matter, ethical. Hardly anyone, for example, would wish to estimate the fraction of the unemployed who are malingering by randomly denying jobless benefits to every other applicant. But in other contexts, controlled social science experiments can be designed and have been used to measure policy changes ranging from higher copayments for health insurance to no-strings income supports for the poor.
More recent experiments designed and monitored by the Manpower Demonstration and Research Corporation, a nonprofit organization spun off from the Ford Foundation in 1974, have had enormous impact on the direction of welfare reform. And with admirers in high places, the experimenters are likely to influence everything from the design of public schools that work to so-called managed competition in health care, in which prepaid health plans such as H.M.O.'s would compete for the health insurance business of consumers.
Until the 1980's most social policy research was built around one of two related techniques. The cheapest method was, and still is, to infer causality from existing data. Economists, for example, have exploited the fact that states have different minimum wages to estimate the effect of changing the legal minimum on unemployment.
But such measurements require the analyst to isolate the influence of one factor -- in this case, the wage floor -- from all the others that might explain differing rates of unemployment. And that task is as much an art as a science.
Worse, suggests Orley Ashenfelter, an economist at Princeton University who was in charge of evaluating Labor Department programs in the early 1970's, it is an invitation to sophistry. Statistical modeling, he bluntly puts it, "leaves too many ways for the researcher to fake it."
Much of the social research commissioned by Washington has, in fact, relied on the collection of new data. If, for example, researchers wanted to measure the effect of paying dropouts to attend night school, they might compare the progress of program participants with a statistically similar group of dropouts culled from nonexperimental sources like United States Census surveys.
Unfortunately, there is a catch: choosing the comparison group requires assumptions that are no less difficult, or arbitrary, than the process of deciding which factors should be accounted for in the sort of statistical model used to measure the impact of the minimum wage.
It should not be surprising then that one analysis of women enrolled in programs under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act showed average annual income gains of $800 to $1,300, while another estimated the average gain at just $13. Nor should it be surprising that the Labor Department's own technical advisers judged that the use of conventional methods to evaluate the Job Training and Partnership Act would be a waste of effort.
In light of the tangles created by nonexperimental methods, it is a puzzle why controlled experiments in social policy were so long the exception rather than the rule. One explanation is that the conclusions of the most important of the early experiments, a series of tests of what economists call the negative income tax that ran from the late 1960's to the mid-70's, were both unexpected and unwelcome to those who commissioned them. The evidence suggested that generous, no-strings financial support reduced the work effort of the poor and actually added to the instability of welfare-dependent families.
Another explanation, given by Judith Gueron, president of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, is that early research was not intended to provide simple, transparent conclusions that busy policy makers could absorb from a few paragraphs or a few numbers.
The manpower research organization, with offices in New York and San Francisco, was not the first, nor is it the only player in the social experiment game. Mathematica Policy Research of Princeton, N.J., and Apt Associates of Cambridge, Mass., are both active in a number of projects. But by all accounts M.D.R.C.'s research has been the most influential.
One reason, says Peter Szanton, a consultant in Washington who was an associate director of the White House budget office in the Carter Administration, is that the nonprofit organization has worked overtime to establish the credibility of controlled experiments. It routinely provides briefings for Federal agencies, Congressional staff members and the press.
Ms. Gueron, whom Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat, has affectionately dubbed "Our Lady of Modest but Positive Results," is the first to point out that the low-cost welfare-to-work experiments in the 1980's generated only marginal improvements in income for the typical participant.
Most important, the research group frames its results as straightforward comparisons between randomly chosen subjects and members of control groups, the numerical equivalent of before-and-after photos that Mr. Szanton says "leaves little to argue about."
For example, in its evaluation of Arkansas' jobs search and work experience program called Work, the researchers estimated that the program cost $118 per subject, while raising average annual earnings by $242 compared with the control group during the three-year follow-up period. The study also found that welfare payments to participants fell by an average of $168 a year, thus generating small but significant gains for both participants and taxpayers.
Little to argue about, perhaps, but still enough to generate intellectual heat. James Heckman, a University of Chicago economist, challenges the conventional wisdom that controlled random experiments are less subject to bias than the alternatives.
 
Unplanned Change in Study
 He points out that the prospect of languishing in the control group may alter the initial pool of volunteers for the same reason that desperately ill cancer patients often refuse to participate in controlled studies of new drugs. And he notes that relegation to the control group may alter participants' incentives in ways that are hard to predict. Those who are denied job training, for example, may work harder to compensate for their second-class status, a phenomenon Mr. Heckman calls the "John Henry effect."
Irwin Garfinkel, a visiting scholar at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, offers a very different criticism. An experiment may accurately measure the effect on participants, he argues, yet provide little insight into what would happen if the program were expanded to serve the entire target population or added to a broader mix of social services.
This tension between "micro" experiment and "macro" effect can cut either way. A job placement program may show promising results, but only because it displaces workers who were not in the experiment. On the other hand, a preschool enrichment program may not improve reading scores five years down the road unless most children in the neighborhood participate.
But for Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution, these criticisms add up to no more than a reminder that controlled experiments demand cautious interpretation. Their only serious drawback compared with other evaluation methods, he says, is cost. And even that liability must be put in perspective.
While the bill for a big experiment typically runs into millions of dollars, Ms. Gueron notes that most of the money is spent to provide services and collect information about participants, costs that are not unique to controlled experiments. Thus the savings in opting for the conventional matched-group method rather than random controls are generally modest.
Mr. Ashenfelter has little patience for what he sees as a pennywise attitude toward experiments. In the 1960's and 1970's, he points out, Washington invested billions of dollars on job training without a clue about what worked and what did not.
 
Exposure of Myths
 That is an error unlikely to be repeated soon. The findings from 11 regional experiments in the 1980's, directed by M.D.R.C. and financed by both the Ford Foundation and state governments, are credited by Mr. Moynihan, who was then chairman of the Senate's subcommittee on family policy, with providing the grounds for a Congressional consensus on overhauling the welfare system.
Liberals were driven to face up to what Mr. Moynihan calls "the myth of social activism," in which dependence was viewed as primarily the fault of an ungenerous state. For their part, conservatives were forced to acknowledge that a brief period of training and help in searching for a job was no panacea for breaking the cycle of poverty.
The result, the Family Support Act of 1988, required states to set up far more ambitious welfare-to-work programs that include most welfare recipients. It also required Washington to evaluate these programs using randomized experiments. The manpower research group has a contract to manage the research.
Washington does not demand experiment-based monitoring of other social programs. But there is good reason to assume that the Clinton Administration will be eager to expand its uses.
For one thing, President Clinton approves. Last month he offered the National Governors Association a freer hand in experimenting with policy reforms. But "if you're going to be able to experiment in projects that use Federal dollars, let's measure the experiment," he pleaded. "Let's be honest about it."
For another, his Administration is chock full of believers: Alice Rivlin, the deputy director of the White House budget office, even wrote a book in 1972 urging controlled policy experiments.
Most important, perhaps, this Administration has a big appetite for changing the world and very little money to indulge that appetite. "President Clinton simply cannot afford to invest in programs that do not work," said Mr. Ashenfelter, "and I expect he knows it."
 
 
 
SOCIAL RESEARCH IN REAL LIFE
 As of May 1991, David Greenburg of the University of Maryland and Mark Shroder of the University of Wisconsin's Institute for Research on Poverty counted 63 controlled social experiments completed and 28 in progress. Here are some current projects:
Do families given the cash equivalent of their food stamp allotments buy less food?
Agency: The Department of Agriculture
Test sites: San Diego and Alabama
Evaluator: Mathematica Policy Research
Expected completion: 1993
 
What is the impact of providing social services and job training to the parents and siblings of children in Headstart?
Agency: The Department of Health and Human Resources
Test sites: Nationwide
Evaluator: Apt Associates
Expected completion: 1995
 
What is the effect of providing different levels of day care for children of poor families?
Agency: The Rockefeller Foundation, along with a number of Federal agencies and other private foundations.
Test Sites: Not yet chosen
Evaluator: Mathematica Policy Research
Expected Completion: Not known
 
Can generous wage subsidies help wean people off welfare?
Agency: The Canadian Government
Test sites: Four cities in New Brunswick and British Columbia.
Evaluator: Social Research and Demonstration Corporation a spinoff from the Manpower Demonstration Research Copration.
Expected Completion: 2000

Can home health care services reduce the rate of institutionalization of the elderly poor?
Agency: The Department of Health and Human Services
Test Sites: Selected counties in seven states
Evaluator: Apt Associates
Expected completion: Not known

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judith Gueron, head of Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, says welfare-to-work experiments in the 1980's led to marginal rises in recipients' incomes. (Ingbet Gruttner)(pg. C1)
 
Drawing. (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MANPOWER DEMONSTRATION AND RESEARCH CORP RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (69%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANPOWER DEMONSTRATION AND RESEARCH CORP BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SCIENCES; WELFARE (US); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TESTS AND TESTING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); STATISTICAL METHOD (86%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ETHICS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (70%); HYPERTENSION (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER HENRY LOUIS 'HANK' AARON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



239 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Jury Could Hear Rodney King Today

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 8

 BODY:
Still appearing frightened and reclusive, clearly burdened by his role as a symbol, Rodney G. King has had only a few stumbling words to say in public since he was beaten by the police two years ago. And in private, talking about the beating to investigators, he has sometimes contradicted himself.
Now, in the prosecution's biggest gamble, he is expected as early as Tuesday to testify for the first time against the four officers accused of violating his civil rights. 
 His testimony could change the course of the trial, but nobody knows just what he will say. Innocent victim or aggressive felon, the man the jurors see on the stand could influence the way they view the videotaped beating.
Mr. King's pain and bewilderment were evident in his emotional statement at the height of the riots last May 1. "People," he began, "I just want to say, can we all get along? Can we get along?" And he concluded: "We've just got to, just got to. We're all stuck here for a while. Let's try to work it out. Let's try to work it out."
 
No Stranger to Trouble
 But more frequently, the 27-year-old unemployed construction worker has been seen here in police custody, once accused of drunken driving, once accused of beating his wife and once for driving his car at an undercover officer after being surprised with a transvestite prostitute. No charges were filed in any of the cases.
In a state trial of the four officers last year, prosecutors chose to avoid the risks of bringing Mr. King to the witness stand and trusted instead in the power of the videotape that shows him being beaten and kicked for 81 seconds.
This gap in their presentation left the way open for defense lawyers to portray Mr. King as "an animal," a dangerous, almost superhumanly strong felon, sweating, grunting, violent and impervious to pain.
Sgt. Stacey C. Koon, Officers Laurence M. Powell and Theodore J. Briseno and former Officer Timothy E. Wind were acquitted of assualt charges last April 29, touching off days of rioting. They now face possible 10-year prison terms on civil rights charges that they used excessive force when they arrested Mr. King for speeding.
 
'Real Human Beings'
 "The jurors had the defendants as real human beings to identify with and sympathize with but no human being on the prosecution side of the case," said Erwin Chemerinsky, a law professor at the University of Southern California. "Rodney King could provide that."
But Mr. King does have a criminal record, for armed robbery, and his actions on March 3, 1991, did contribute to the events that followed, all elements that defense lawyers are likely to focus on. One of them said today he expects Mr. King to undergo cross-examination for at least a full day.
Aware of the risks, the prosecutors have gone out of their way to play down Mr. King's testimony, sandwiching his appearance between those of expert witnesses and acknowledging his problems to the jury from the start.
"He will tell you that he was on parole and that he broke the law on the night of the incident," said a prosecutor, Steven D. Clymer, in his opening statement Feb. 25. "He was drunk while driving, and he was speeding as he tried to get away from the police.When they tried to handcuff him, he resisted."
 
'A Very Poor Memory'
 Furthermore, said Mr. Clymer, an assistant United States attorney, "I expect Rodney King will tell you that because of the beating he has a very poor memory of the incident. He has made several statements that are inconsistent, with different versions of the events."
But he emphasized: "Rodney King is not on trial. The issue of whether he was guilty or innocent that night is not the issue in this trial."
These statements are part of a prosecution tactic, said Peter Arenella, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.
"A basic message the prosecution wants to send to the jury is that they do not have to choose between King and the officers as to who is ultimately more sympathetic and appealing," he said. "They are going to do their best to educate the jury that even a criminal who is clearly resisting lawful authority retains the constitutional right to be free from excessive force."
Mr. King's few public statements since the beating, including his remarks during the rioting, portray a man struggling to understand his role in the events that have grown from the beating captured on amateur videotape.
 
Kept Out of Sight
 He has remained sequestered by his lawyer, Milton Grimes, living at an undisclosed location and rarely appearing in public. People who have talked with him describe him as nervous and sometimes confused.
Last December, Mr. Grimes announced that he was raising Mr. King's profile and would take him on speaking tours around the country. But this plan ended after one visit to a school classroom and one appearance on a call-in show at a local black radio station, KJLH-FM.
In that appearance, Mr. King gave brief, sometimes one-word answers to questions and seemed uncomfortable in a public setting. His one unforced moment came in a burst of spontaneous laughter over his discovery last year that the prostitute in his car was a transvestite.
When he is recognized in public, he said, he sometimes gets the feeling, especially from white people, that he is a problem to them, a cause of the city's turmoil. But he was unable to find words to express his reaction to finding his name linked to the devastating rioting.
 
'Like a Crushed Can'
 Mr. King's formal statements about the beating have been inconsistent regarding his drinking that night, about possible racial epithets used by the police and about other details, including when he was handcuffed.
In his grand jury testimony last July, he told one of the prosecutors, Barry F. Kowalski, that he could not remember the order in which events occurred. But he did not hesitate when Mr. Kowalski asked him how he felt at the end of the beating.
"I just felt horrible," Mr. King said, in a glimpse of the sort of testimony he may give in court. "I felt beat up and like a crushed can. That's what I felt like, like a crushed can all over, and my spirits were down, real low."
During the beating, he told the grand jury, the officers taunted him, saying repeatedly, "What's up? What's up, killer? How you feel now, killer?" In a separate earlier statement to investigators he said the officers also repeatedly used a racial epithet.
 
The Crucial Point
 This portrait of the police officers, if it is accepted by the jurors, would suggest that the officers were meting out summary punishment to a man who had angered them, as the prosecutors charge. This point is important because the prosecutors need to prove that the officers intentionally harmed Mr. King in violation of his civil rights.
As for his own actions, Mr. King said he never attacked the officers but was trying to protect himself from the relentless baton blows and jolts of electricity from a Taser stun gun.
In the earlier interview, with the District Attorney's office four months after the beating, Mr. King said: "What was I doing? Saying to myself, it's going to be over, it's going to be over, it's going to, just hang in there, just hang in there, it's going to be over soon."
When it finally was over, Mr. King said, he was left alone in a hospital bed thinking the thoughts of a beaten man.
"Damn, I felt so defenseless, useless," he said in the same interview. "Who am I, who am I to say I'm not -- who am I to say I didn't do this? That's what I was thinking about when I was lying in the bed sick. Who's going to believe you? Who's going to believe you?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; TRIALS; BRUTALITY AND HARASSMENT CHARGES; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); FELONIES (89%); WITNESSES (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (77%); RIOTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LAWYERS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (76%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (76%); ACQUITTAL (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (72%); ROBBERY (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); PROSTITUTION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; KING, RODNEY GLEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



240 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Reviving the Education Department

 BODY:
President Clinton has wisely indicated that broad investment in education, like expansion of Head Start, retraining of workers and national service to help pay for college, is a vital part of his economic recovery program. But beyond these lofty proposals there are two key reforms his Administration needs to make: revitalize the moribund Department of Education, and revamp the Chapter 1 program, the main vehicle for Federal aid to improve the academic skills of poor children.
Mr. Clinton's choice of a trusted mentor, Richard Riley, as Secretary of Education was well received. Mr. Riley led a comprehensive effort to improve schools during two terms as Governor of South Carolina. His new deputy, former Gov. Madeleine Kunin of Vermont, also had a strong interest in education. 
 Created as a cabinet-level agency in 1980 at the end of the Carter Administration, the department has endured 12 years of neglect. Ronald Reagan wanted to abolish the agency, but was frustrated by his own Secretary of Education, Terrel Bell. George Bush said he would be the "education President," but his Administration used the department to tout choice among public, private and parochial schools, with Government vouchers to pay the bill. The Administration's preoccupation with this polarizing issue helped sour relations with Congress and stalled progress on issues like national standards and testing.
At his confirmation hearing, Mr. Riley outlined three laudable objectives: improving the quality of education for all students, assuring access and helping all students meet high standards. But the Administration needs to invigorate the school reform movement by pulling more communities, educators and parents into the effort. The Federal Government can encourage, through funding incentives, efforts to give schools more authority to design the mechanisms, from smaller classes to cooperative learning, to improve effectiveness.
One pressing challenge is to improve what many legislators consider a poorly managed department, with a $35 billion budget and 5,200 employees administering 220 programs. The department was recently cited by the General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative agency, for poor oversight of Federal student loan programs.
The chief candidate for improvement is Chapter 1, which provides remedial services to disadvantaged children. Three reports have criticized the $6 billion program for, among other things, pulling children out of regular classes for remedial instruction, with the result that they fall further behind.
Education is primarily a state and local responsibility. Now Mr. Clinton and Mr. Riley, who made education a priority as governors, can push it to the forefront at the Federal level as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US)

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL AID (US) EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); QUALITY CONTROL (70%); ACCOUNTING (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RILEY, RICHARD W (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



241 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Needed: A Few Brave Republicans

 BODY:
The Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, must be proud of his legislative skills, if nothing else. Last week he rallied enough Republicans to block a vital political reform designed to make it easier for Americans to register to vote. The Senate majority leader, George Mitchell, is scheduled to try again today to break Mr. Dole's crippling filibuster.
The vote will be a particular test of principle for four Republican Senators: James Jeffords of Vermont, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, Dave Durenberger of Minnesota and Bob Packwood of Oregon. Last year all four broke with their party to support reform. They can tip the balance if they do so again. 
 The reform is the "motor-voter" bill vetoed last year by President Bush and repassed by the House last month. It would require states to give people a chance to register when they obtain or renew a driver's license. States would also provide voter registration forms by mail and at welfare, unemployment and other government offices.
On a day when key senators were absent, Mr. Dole was able to deny Democrats the 60 votes needed to cut off debate on a motion to proceed -- a preliminary step to getting "motor voter" to the floor, where it seems a sure bet for passage on the merits. What a victory! And what a message to Americans still searching for constructive ideas from the loyal opposition.
Republicans say the bill would be costly to the states. They also warn of rampant voting fraud. But these are false arguments. Combining driver and voter registration could actually save money. And states that already register voters at motor vehicle departments report no rise in cheating.
The real basis of the G.O.P.'s opposition is its calculation that new registrants will vote Democratic. Mr. Dole's zealous opposition to such a simple, sensible reform makes that prospect all the more likely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; STATES (US); FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); FILIBUSTER (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (68%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); JEFFORDS, JAMES (SEN); SPECTER, ARLEN (SEN); DURENBERGER, DAVE (SEN); PACKWOOD, ROBERT W (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (77%); ARLEN SPECTER (73%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



242 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: Ford Motor Unit Prices Notes

 BODY:
The Associates Corporation of North America, a Dallas-based unit of the Ford Motor Company, yesterday priced $300 million of seven-year notes through underwriters led by Salomon Brothers.
The notes, which are due in 2000, have a 6 percent coupon and are priced at 100 to yield about 54 basis points more than Treasury securities with a similar maturity. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. 
 Noncallable before maturity, the securities are rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and AA- by Standard & Poor's and Duff & Phelps Credit Rating.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (71%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (71%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATES CORPORATION OF NORTH AMERICA; FORD MOTOR CO; SALOMON BROTHERS INC ASSOCIATES CORP OF NORTH AMERICA (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (71%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATES CORPORATION OF NORTH AMERICA; FORD MOTOR CO; SALOMON BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; CORPORATE BONDS CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (88%); BONDS (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1993



243 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
CLINTON BACKS MEETING ON RUSSIA
In the latest step in his campaign to prop up reform in Russia, President Clinton said he would support an emergency meeting of the Group of Seven major industrialized nations to discuss ways to bolster the Russian democracy movement. A1
 
RUSSIAN BALLET ON REFERENDUM
The battle between President Yeltsin and the Congress of Peoples' Deputies over whether Russia should proceed with a constitutional referendum has become a game with complex rules but a simple object: cancel the vote but blame the other side. A10 

DELIVERANCE IN BIG PACKAGES
Isolated Gorazde, Bosnia, received 25 1,100-pound bundles of aid supplies from the United States. The fact that two were smashed to bits on impact did not dim the rekindled hopes of the villagers. A1
 
SERBS BLOCK EVACUATION
An attempt to evacuate the ill and injured among the thousands of Muslims who fled to the edges of the Cerska region in eastern Bosnia was blocked by ethnic Serbian forces the day after their commander approved the exodus. A8
 
JAPANESE POLITICIAN'S TREASURE
Japanese Government investigators found hundreds of pounds of gold bars and roughly $50 million in cash and securities today in the home and offices of Shin Kanemaru, the political kingmaker who is now behind bars on corruption charges.A1
 
ITALY'S SCANDAL SPREADS
Two officials in Italy's state-owned energy network were arrested on corruption charges, broadening the bribery scandal and battering the foundations of the fragile coalition Government. A3
 
LIMITS ON MEXICAN CAMPAIGNS
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico, criticized for soliciting millions in donations to the governing party from business, endorsed new limits on contributions. A3
 
NUCLEAR DISMANTLING BOGS DOWN
An $800 million American program to help dismantle Russia's nuclear arsenal is creeping along, hampered by disruptions within Russia, Moscow's obsession with secrecy and its determination to make the largest profit possible, a Senate committee was told. A11
 
No surprises are foreseen in Indonesia's one-party elections. A5
 
Alma-Ata Journal: The alchemy of Kazakhstan. A4
 
National A12-17
 
KING TAKES THE STAND
In a hushed courtroom, Rodney King described a beating two years ago by police officers who, he said, taunted him with racial epithets, threatened to kill him and provoked him to try to flee before clubbing him in the forehead with a baton. A1
 
NOMINEE HAS EASY DAY
President Clinton's nominee for Attorney General, Janet Reno, breezed through her first day of confirmation hearings, easily answering gentle questions from the Senate Judiciary Committee.A1
 
LOOKING FOR CULPRITS
President Clinton has vowed to eliminate some of the 700 Federal advisory committees that "have spread across this Government like kudzu." He faces one problem: first, he has to find them. A15
 
CLEANUP PLAN FAULTED
A Congressional report says that the Energy Department is unprepared to protect tens of thousands of workers who will soon embark on a 30-year cleanup of the department's vast nuclear weapons production complex. A15
 
DRUG COMPANIES COUNTERATTACK
Under pressure to cut prices, drug companies said that they would ask the Justice Department for an exemption from antitrust laws so they could discuss price restraints. The request could put the Administration in an awkward position. A16
 
WARY ABOUT CUTS
Clinton said he was pleased that Congress considering budget cuts, but that he might raise objections over specifics. A16
 
CALIFORNIANS LOBBY FOR BASES
Nervous about talk of closing more military bases, California officials are reminding the Clinton Administration of its pledge to give special attention to the state's ailing economy. A12
 
GEORGIAN RETREATS ON FLAG
Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia said he was giving up his fight to remove Confederate imagery from the state flag, at least for now. A12
 
CULT'S BIZARRE BATTLE
In a battle with rival sect members five and a half years ago, the members of the Branch Davidian cult in Texas gave the outside world a warning about their formidable arsenal. But the outside world chose to look the other way. A14
 
The cult's leader alternates between threats and offers of peace. A14
 
A sex scandal touches a Catholic Archbishop in New Mexico.A12
 
Education Page B8
 
Academic freedom in conflict with religious identity at Brigham Young.
 
Campus Journal: Bloomfield College offers clowning for credit.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
NEW TUBERCULOSIS REGULATIONS
The New York City Health Department yesterday adopted strict regulations for detaining tuberculosis patients who fail to complete treatment on their own, a move that could require the confinement of patients for more than a year. The regulations are intended to curb the spread of tuberculosis and the deadly drug-resistant strains of the disease that develop in patients who repeatedly start and stop treatment. A1
 
EXPLOSION AFTEREFFECTS
Perhaps more than in any previous disaster, the survivors of the World Trade Center Explosion are getting help to vent their pain and fear. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-11
 
How to think on your feet and shop your mind. C1
At Lunch With Betty Rollin. C1
Metropolitan Diary C2
60-Minute Gourmet C2
Eating Well C3
Plain & Simple C3
Microwave Cooking C4
Food Notes C7
Wine Talk C10
Health Page C12
Federal panel recommends hearing test for all infants.
Personal Health: Looking for colon cancer gets easier.
Angioplasty found to be riskier for women.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
American musicals in Europe. C13
Theater: "Wings." C13
Music: The Pop Life C13
Dance: Pittsburgh Ballet. C13
 
Sports B9-14
Baseball: Yanks asking O'Neill to adapt to left. B11
Injury worries for the Mets. B11
Hayes reflects on his Yankee past. B11
Basketball: O'Brien confident that B.C. isn't through. B9
Column: Vecsey on N.B.A. playoffs. B9
Football: Three-year Jets pact for Marshall. B9
Hockey: Rangers top Kings. B9
Knickle, 33, starts his 2d N.H.L. career. B13
Islanders beat the Flyers. B13
 
Obituaries B7
 
Judith Rothschild, abstract painter.
Solomon J. Buchsbaum, physicist.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
The perfect gift for Mr. Yeltsin.
Emily's loophole.
Asylum by gender.
In memory of two boys.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Gynocide.
 
Dimitri K. Simes: There's no oil in Bosnia.
 
Richard B. Freeman and Joel Rogers: A new New Deal for labor.
 
Rafael Hernandez Colon: Hurricane Bill threatens San Juan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); INDONESIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); INDONESIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REFERENDUMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); WITNESSES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BRIBERY (71%); SCANDALS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); APPROVALS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); ARRESTS (65%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



244 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IS PUSHING WEALTHIER NATIONS TO BOLSTER RUSSIA

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that he would support an emergency meeting of the major industrialized democracies to discuss how they can bolster the Russian democracy movement, adding that the group's next planned summit in July might be too long to wait.
"The important point I'd like to make," Mr. Clinton said, after talks with President Francois Mitterrand of France, "is I don't believe we can wait until July for the major countries of the world, who care about what happens in Russia and who would like very much to keep political and economic reform on track there, to move." 
 With each passing day Mr. Clinton has been speaking out more and more forcefully on the need to help the Russian reformers, and has promised to unveil shortly several "innovative" aid ideas. In doing so, he is raising substantial expectations for an American policy initiative toward Russia that would go far beyond the limited offers of help by the Bush Administration.
 
Meeting With Yeltsin
 It is not at all clear, though, that the Administration's foreign policy apparatus can produce concrete initiatives in the three and a half weeks before Mr. Clinton meets President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia in Vancouver, British Columbia, on April 3 and 4. It is also not clear how far Congress is ready to go in this season of budgetary restraint.
But the President's remarks today seemed to reflect a recent string of unusually strong warnings to the White House from the Central Intelligence Agency about the depth of Mr. Yeltsin's plight, Administration and Congressional officials said today.
"We do feel that Yeltsin is in greater trouble than at any time since the coup," a senior intelligence expert said in an interview today. The official stressed, though, that he believed "Yeltsin could still pull it out."
 
Needs Western Support
 But the analyst said that to help Mr. Yeltsin withstand his current challenge from political opponents within the Russian Parliament, it would be useful for the West to provide not only financial assistance, but also clear and repeated expressions of support for the Russian President.
Even with that support, however, Russian experts in Washington and Moscow agree that no one from the outside can save Mr. Yeltsin if his Government loses credibility at home. The most they can do is help him at the margins, the experts said. Ultimately, his fate and that of the democratic reform movement in Russia will depend on his political acumen in dealing with his parliamentary opponents and his ability to continue to reform the Russian economy.
Mr. Clinton, 46, tried to give a boost to both during his news conference with the 76-year-old French President, who endorsed the idea of an emergency summit meeting and criticized Japan for trying to block it.
Tokyo is the host for the scheduled July meeting of the Group of Seven and does not want to undermine the significance of that session by having an emergency meeting beforehand. The Japanese have also been reluctant to commit themselves to increasing aid to Russia until Moscow promises to return Japanese islands captured during World War II. Nevertheless, Mr. Clinton said that "it is entirely possible" that an emergency session of the group before July "might be useful" in helping Russian reform.
The Group of Seven consists of the United States, France, Britain, Japan, Germany, Canada and Italy. Its members pledged $24 billion in loans, cash, and technical assistance for Russia last year. But only part of that figure -- mostly $10.5 billion in short-term loans that Russia is already in default on -- has been delivered because of Moscow's inability to control its money supply and restructure its economy to a degree acceptable to the International Monetary Fund.
 
Urging From Nixon
 Former President Richard M. Nixon, in his meeting on Monday with President Clinton urged the United States to take the lead in calling for an emergency session of the group.
Echoes of that argument were present in Mr. Clinton's remarks today, when he said it is essential "for us to try to move aggressively to give the Russians the means to restore some economic growth and opportunity and preserve political liberty."
Mr. Mitterrand joined that view. "I'm in favor of an earlier G-7 meeting," he said. "I think it's absolutely necessary. There are problems, specifically in Eastern Europe and in Russia, that are urgent."
"I also know about the Japanese opposition to the idea," Mr. Mitterrand said. "And perhaps they, the Japanese, are not paying sufficient regard in this respect to the importance of events taking place mainly in Europe."
Jeffery Sachs, a Harvard University economist advising the Russian Government, has proposed that the Group of Seven treat economic reform in Russia as a step-by-step process. That means, he said, that the aid goes step by step as the reform goes step by step.
 
Trade Issue Discussed
 On a trade issue that also came up in today's talks, Mr. Clinton soft-pedaled his earlier criticism of European subsidies to the Airbus project, which has been blamed for taking away thousands of jobs from the Boeing Company and McDonnell Douglas Corp.
Today, Mr. Clinton said he has no plans to renounce the accord between Washington and the European Community, negotiated last year by the Bush Administration, which lays down how much both sides can subsidize their civlian aircraft industries.
"I support last year's agreement," he said. "The argument I was trying to make to the Boeing workers last week is that the adversity they have suffered in the market is through no fault of their own. That is, they have not failed by being unproductive or lazy or asking for too much. But that Europe was able to penetrate this market because of the Airbus policy. And the blame I placed was on our Government for not responding, not Europe's for trying to get in. That was their right."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference with President Francois Mitterrand, President Clinton stressed the importance of immediate aid to bolster the embattled democratic movement in Russia. Both concurred that the top economic powers should act before their next scheduled summit meeting in July. (Reuters) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (59%); SIC3728 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT (59%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

COMPANY: ;AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AIRBUS INDUSTRIE (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; FRANCE ; JAPAN; EUROPE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); TREATIES; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); AIRLINES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



245 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE FOR JUSTICE IS TREATED GENTLY

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
Janet Reno breezed through a balmy first day of confirmation hearings today before the Senate Judiciary Committee, where the gentle questions contrasted sharply with the turbulent selection process that led to her nomination to be Attorney General.
From the moment she loped up the aisle in the packed hearing room and took her seat behind the green felt-covered table, Ms. Reno seemed in command. Her testimony combined careful coaching, legal training and the political skills honed in five election campaigns as Dade County prosecutor. 
 Her folksy opening statement steered clear of the usual legal speech-making that is standard fare for nominees facing confirmation to head the Justice Department. Ms. Reno talked instead about her father, a Danish immigrant who was a reporter at The Miami Herald, and about her family home built by her mother outside of Miami.
 
A House as Symbol
 "She dug the foundation with her own hands, with a pick and shovel, she laid the brick, she put in the plumbing and my father would help her with heavy work at night," she said. "I have lived there ever since. And as I come down the driveway through the woods with a new problem to solve, that house stands as a symbol to me, that you can do anything you really want to, if it's the right thing to do and you put your mind to it."
Ms. Reno, who for 15 years has been the chief prosecutor in the county that encompasses Miami, seemed to embrace a philosophy tailored to liberals and conservatives alike. She frequently asserted the necessity to prosecute lawbreakers vigorously but said social programs were needed to divert drug users to treatment programs and to steer young people from crime.
Her emphasis on practical law-enforcement experience, more than her views on crime and justice, seemed to define the differences between Ms. Reno and former Attorneys General, like William P. Barr, her immediate predecessor. She offered few specifics of how her approach would differ from Bush Administration policies.
Reaching into her background to explain her views, she seemed to suggest that she would emphasize the Attorney General's role as the chief criminal-law enforcer, not the principal legal thinker. "I want to let people know that crime doesn't pay," she said.
 
Death Penalty Discussed
 She deflected criticism of her opposition to the death penalty, saying, "To find those people still in prison without that penalty carried out after 10 and 13 and 15 years makes a mockery of the justice system."
Democrats and Republicans on the Judiciary Committee expressed profound relief that Ms. Reno had arrived without any embarrassing issue on which they would be forced to pass judgment. Several recent confirmation battles left the impression that the committee could not relate to the anger of everyday citizens over issues like the hiring of illegal aliens by Zoe Baird, President Clinton's first nominee to head the Justice Department.
Mr. Clinton's second choice, Kimba M. Wood, a Federal judge in New York, fell out of contention after an internal dispute over whether she had answered fully when White House aides asked about her hiring of a household worker who was an illegal alien. At the time Judge Wood hired the worker it was not illegal to do so, a fact that prompted some critics to see a double standard and assert that she had been unfairly eliminated.
 
Biden's 'Sigh of Relief'
 Today, members of the panel seemed delighted that Ms. Reno allowed them to get the troublesome issue of who will lead the Justice Department behind them. During a break in the hearings, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who heads the committee, told reporters that Ms. Reno's hearings were going about as smoothly as anyone expected. "What your hearing is a collective sigh of relief," he said.
By day's end, several Democrats and Republicans on the panel were discussing the possibility of speeding up their deliberations after the hearings conclude on Wednesday. Some favored voting on her nomination on Thursday, instead of waiting the usual seven days. If the committee approved her, she could be confirmed by the end of the week.
Her deferential demeanor appeared to fray when two Republicans, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Hank Brown of Colorado, prodded her about whether Clinton Administration officials improperly intervened on behalf of Representative Harold E. Ford, a Tennessee Democrat who was an early Clinton supporter.
 
Tries to Deflect Question
 After black lawmakers complained to the White House and to the Justice Department, Stuart Gerson, the acting Attorney General who is a holdover from the Bush Administration, sought the dismissal of a nearly all-white jury selected to hear a fraud case against Mr. Ford, who is black.
Ms. Reno tried to deflect the question, suggesting that politics had played no role in the decision because it had been made by Mr. Gerson, a "high-level member of the past Administration." She said Mr. Gerson had said there was no effort "to influence anybody to do anything inappropriate."
She stiffened as Mr. Grassley pushed further, asking her whether she would continue to investigate how the decision was made and whether there were meetings between White House officials and Mr. Gerson.
She replied curtly, "I don't see any further action to be taken on it."
 
'Beyond a Red Herring'
 Senator Carol Moseley Braun, an Illinois Democrat who is a member of the Black Caucus, defended the black legislators' efforts to petition the Justice Department in Mr. Ford's case. She accused Republicans of "mudslinging," in raising the issue, saying it was a "beyond a red herring."
Mr. Grassley also queried Ms. Reno about another politically explosive case, the Federal grand jury investigation of Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Administration officials are said to be fearful of the prospects for Mr. Clinton's economic proposals if Mr. Rostenkowski steps aside.
When Mr. Grassley asked whether she would provide the White House with a status report on the investigation, she answered with a sharp, "No," asserting, "I try to keep politics out of what I do."
Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the panel, said at one point, "Having read every page of your F.B.I. report, I am impressed with your credentials and what you've done with your life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before the start of her confirmation hearing, Janet Reno met, from the left, Senators Howell Heflin, Howard M. Metzenbaum, Edward M. Kennedy, Patrick J. Leahy, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Orrin G. Hatch. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Janet Reno, Attorney General-designate, and Senator Bob Graham of Florida, her home state, enjoyed their welcome before the Senate Judiciary Committee for the start of her confirmation hearing. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (88%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); 

PERSON: RENO, JANET; JOHNSTON, DAVID BILL CLINTON (72%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



246 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
American Express is discussing selling its Shearson retail brokerage to Primerica for $1 billion. The combination would rival Merrill Lynch as the nation's largest broker. It would also enable Primerica's chairman to rejoin an operation he created. [Page D1.]
A.T.& T.'s aggressive tactics to retain toll-free long-distance customers have produced cries of foul from competitors. [D1.] 
 The nation's drug companies will ask for an antitrust exemption to enable them to discuss price restraints. [A16.]
General Reinsurance will insure bank deposits exceeding the $100,000 limit of F.D.I.C. coverage. [D4.]
Coca-Cola's chairman took a $59 million pay cut in 1992 despite his guiding the company through a difficult year. [D4.]
Pepsi-Cola will invest more than $115 million in a leading Hungarian soft-drink and mineral-water company. [D4.]
General Electric's Hungarian lighting venture faces a clash between management and workers as its losses continue. [D4.]
Procter & Gamble says a new detergent contains an enzyme that eliminates the fuzzy stuff that accumulates on clothes. [D4.]
Dell Computer continued its spectacular growth, reporting that sales and net income more than doubled in the fourth quarter. [D5.]
Fujitsu, Japan's largest computer company, will slash its hiring of new employees in the coming year to cut its costs. [D5.]
Barron's managing editor was named editor, replacing Alan Abelson, and The Economist also named a new top editor. [D22.]
A prospective buyer of The New York Post appeared to back out of the purchase, and another potential investor emerged. [B3.]
 
The Economy
Employers remain cautious on hiring despite strong economic statistics, and the trend seems likely to continue because of fundamental changes in Corporate America. [D1.]
Banking regulations intended to spur competition will be proposed by the Clinton Administration today. [D1.]
President Clinton warned he might raise objections to some specific new spending cuts being promoted by lawmakers. [A16.]
 
International
President Clinton supports a special meeting of major industrial democracies to discuss aid to Russia. [A1.]
The U.S. wants some changes in Mexico's court system in secondary accords related to the North American trade pact. [D1.]
Western Germany's economy contracted by 1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1992, as the region's recession deepened. [D2.]
Kazakhstan has attracted companies seeking lavish rewards from the Central Asian country's vast mineral wealth. [A4.]
 
Business Technology
A new technique can transmit data over telephone lines at speeds 45,000 times faster than currently available. [D19.]
A tiny worm known as a nematode has been enlisted in the war against the cockroach. [D19.]
 
Markets
Stocks bobbed to new highs. The Dow rose 2.70 points, to 3,472.12, a second straight record. [D6.]
New York State bonds have performed well in the last two years, but some wonder if the pace can continue. [D16.]
The dollar strengthened against the yen and gold prices declined. [D18.] Natural gas futures rose sharply. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Anchor Bancorp's investors are apparently looking at earnings rather than traditional measures of value. Market Place. [D6.]
Elsie the Cow is back at Borden with a modern makeover in a $20 million campaign by Grey Advertising. Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); PRI (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); FUJ (LSE) (55%); 6702 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (57%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); PRIMERICA INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); FUJITSU LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ENZYMES (71%); TRENDS (71%); REINSURANCE (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); STATISTICS (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (56%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); BILL CLINTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



247 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: California Scrambles to Defends Its Bases From Pentagon Ax

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., March 9

 BODY:
Word that a new round of base closings would be concentrated in California has set off a week of clamorous activity by the state's elected leaders, who are reminding the Clinton Administration of its pledge to give special attention to the state's ailing economy, which threatens to stall the nation's recovery.
The full-court press by California's leadership, including the Republican Governor, the two new Democrat Senators, a host of powerful committee chairmen in Congress and dozens of state lawmakers, is the most intense effort to advance a statewide agenda since the earthquake in 1989, when officials set aside partisan and parochial interests to seek Federal aid. 
 "This is truly a California-first effort," said Don Perata, a member of the Board of Supervisors in Alameda County, which has 3 of the 10 bases in the state threatened with closure. "Everything has been put aside except the common concern that this will push us over the edge.
The Pentagon is preparing a list of about 180 military installations that it proposes to close, consolidate or reduce across the nation, and leaders from many states are lobbying to keep bases off the list before it is released on Friday. But state officials here argue that California, with an unemployment rate of 9.8 percent, nearly three points above the national average, is in a particularly difficult bind.
 
80,000 Jobs at Stake
 The California bases on a draft version of the list account for 80,000 jobs, a price leaders say the state cannot afford to pay after losing 17 bases and 68,000 jobs in two earlier rounds of military reductions.
Even where a closed base might some day provide opportunities to create new jobs in the private sector, the slow process of closing has put large numbers of people, particularly bllue-collar workers, out of their jobs in the short run, according to several defense conversion experts and officials in communities where bases are closing.
The here and now is what worries California's leaders, as each month brings new grim economic tidings. Senator Dianne Feinstein has led the chorus of desperation.
"I understand our country's military needs to reflect the realities of the post-cold-war world," she said today on the Senate floor, noting that 60 percent of the jobs lost in earlier rounds of military reductions were in California. "But closing 10 bases in a state where the economy is still fragile and 1.5 million people are unemployed just doesn't make sense."
Beyond trying to protect bases, state leaders are further arguing that the Administration must offer a thorough and well-financed defense conversion plan to train displaced workers and provide emergency benefits. They also seek financing to accelerate environmental cleanups in places like this one, which stands to lose the huge Alameda Naval Air Station, which is also a port for warships and employs 18,200 people, and the Oakland Naval Supply Center, with a military and civilian work force of 3,800.
A $1.7 billion fund for defense conversion, which was appropriated but not spent during the Bush Administration, could be released as early as Friday, when President Clinton is expected to discuss military matters aboard an aircraft carrier in Virginia. That would coincide with the official announcement of the list of bases proposed for closing by Defense Secretary Les Aspin.
Rep. Ronald V. Dellums, Mr. Aspin's successor as chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and an advocate of drastically reduced military spending, is seeking a further $7.5 billion for military conversion. Mr. Dellums's district, which includes Oakland and the island city of Alameda, stands to lose all of its bases.
"We have long been pushing the view that no matter how you feel about a local facility, the national Government has the obligation to provide meaningful transition," said H. Lee Halterman, general counsel to Mr. Dellums. "Base A, base B, the pain's the same. The Federal Government has to intervene quickly and aggressively."
Mr. Dellums, who has set aside fiery oratory in favor of inside maneuvering, met on Monday with Mr. Aspin and told him that the proposed closings, especially those suggested by the Navy, were strategically unsound. The cluster of bases in the Bay Area, Mr. Dellums said, can berth three nuclear carriers and provide housing and hospital beds that will be expensive to replace elsewhere.
Senator Feinstein made a plea to the White House chief of staff that the Administration should not close bases in states with unemployment rates above 9 percent. Ms. Feinstein will also introduce a Senate resolution that the cummulative economic impact of closing should be given more weight in the deliberations of the Base Closure and Realignment Commission, which will review Mr. Aspin's list before passing its recommendations to the President by July 1. The list then will go to Congress.
 
Delegation to Washington
 Gov. Pete Wilson issued an invitation to the commission chairman, James A. Courter, to visit California and "see the hardship firsthand." Such visits are a routine part of the commission's deliberations, but the Governor, a former Marine and onetime member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, hopes to use his years of friendship with Mr. Courter, a former New Jersey Representative who is a fellow Republican.
Sixty-three members of the California Assembly and Senate, and several important aides to Mr. Wilson, the largest contingent ever to visit Washington on the annual lobbying mission, stormed the Pentagon and Capitol Hill this week. While each lawmaker hoped to save his own installation, they gave collective voice to the distress of a state that has lost 800,000 jobs since mid-1990 and is now home to 17 percent of the nation's unemployed.
In addition to relief on the base closures, the state lawmakers hope to come home with nearly $1 billion in Federal funds to help pay the health and welfare costs associated with runaway immigration. That request to the Clinton Administration, in the works for many weeks, was the first indication of a new collegial spirit within the state delegation.
Leaders here view the base-closing situation as the first big test of the loyalty and sincerity of Mr. Clinton, whose economic plans and re-election prospects are tied to restored prosperity in the state.
The President, the first Democrat to win here since 1964, has pledged that $4 billion of a $31 billion package of new spending he intends to stimulate the economy will go to California. Mr. Perata heard a pledge to give this state special consideration from the President's mouth, via live satellite transmission, at a statewide economic summit conference last month, modeled on Mr. Clinton's highly praised gathering in Little Rock.
"I heard him say he would not abandon California," the county supervisor said. "I heard him say "As California goes, so goes the nation." He has a commitment to California and a political obligation to California. Now he can help us not make anybody else unemployed. I think he can do that and the rest of the country will understand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Ronald V. Dellums of California, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, is an advocate of drastically reduced military spending. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); His district stands to lose all of its military bases, including Alameda Naval Air Station, above, which employs 18,200 people. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR MILITARY BASES (91%); CLOSINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); COLD WAR (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); NAVIES (67%); TRENDS (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; DELLUMS, RONALD V (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



248 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Hails Congress on Budget Cut

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
As Congress began voting in committee on his economic program, President Clinton said today that he was pleased that the lawmakers were considering even deeper budget cuts than those he proposed last month. But the President warned that he might raise objections when Congress moved from dealing with general figures to specific ones.
At a news conference, Mr. Clinton praised Congress for trying "to get even more deficit reduction." But he added, "That doesn't mean we don't need more specifics, because we have to define how we're going to cut." 
 The House and Senate budget committees plan to vote Wednesday on general budget plans. The House measure would order $63 billion more in spending cuts over the next five years than the President included in his proposal. The Senate measure would include comparable spending cuts and an additional $30 billion in tax increases and fees for using Government services over the five years.
Mr. Clinton originally said his proposals would cut the deficit by $473 billion over five years, but the Congressional Budget Office examined the proposals and placed the figure at $406 billion.
 
Stimulus Package Backed
 On the spending side, the House Appropriations Committee today approved the first part of the President's economic-stimulus package, a $16 billion bill that would finance highway construction, summer jobs for students and other job-creation programs in the current fiscal year. Next week, the full House is scheduled to vote on this legislation, which will then be considered by the Senate.
The measures before the budget committees are called budget resolutions, the first Congressional step in the annual budget process. They establish the total amount of revenue that should be raised by taxes. They set total spending limits for all programs that require annual appropriations. And they also set total levels for programs like Social Security, Medicare and farm-price supports in which Government money is distributed according to formulas to everyone who meets eligibility requirements.
But despite all the talk in the budget committees about which programs should be cut where, the resolutions themselves are not binding in the details. After they are approved, Congress turns to the work of deciding, for instance, how much to spend for submarines and how much for welfare.
Leon E. Panetta, Mr. Clinton's budget director, told the House Ways and Means Committee this morning that he hoped the entire package would be enacted by August.
The measures before the budget panels follow Mr. Clinton's prescriptions closely.
"We in the Congress owe this President and this package a chance to succeed," said Jim Sasser of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. That is the almost unanimous view now of Democrats in Congress, and since Democrats hold majorities on the budget committees, the package is almost certain to be approved in a form that meets with the President's approval.
Most Republicans will vote against it. Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the top Republican on the Senate budget panel, said the Clinton plan would not cut the deficit nearly so much as is being forecast because of its emphasis on tax increases.
The solid front now presented by the White House and Congress, as well as the unity among the Democrats in Congress, may weaken when it is time to get down to the actual details of which specific programs will be cut by how much and who will pay what new taxes.
The lawmakers are considering deeper cuts than Mr. Clinton sought largely because the new projections by the Congressional Budget Office showed that the President's actual proposals would fall somewhat short of the deficit-reduction goals he set in his speech to Congress last month. But another reason for the belt-tightening is that the senators and representatives have been under considerable pressure from their constituents to reduce Government spending.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leon E. Panetta, budget director, testifying yesterday before the House Ways and Means Committee. He said that he hoped President Clinton's economic package would be enacted by August. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FEDERAL AID (US) BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MEDICARE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PANETTA, LEON E (DIR); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (93%); LEON E PANETTA (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



249 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: The Reluctance to Begin Rehiring

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LINDEN, N.J.,

 BODY:
While nobody here is yet calling it a boom, Fred D. Barre says business has improved significantly in recent months at his metal-fabricating company, just a wind shift from Exxon's giant Bayway refinery off the New Jersey Turnpike.
The Barre Company's backlog of unfilled orders now stands at $1.4 million, fully 25 percent above levels a year ago. And for the last couple of months, Barre workers have been putting in four to six hours a week of overtime. 
 Mr. Barre is no longer fighting for his company's survival, but neither does he have immediate plans to add to his work force of 62 unionized and management employees. In fact, his most recent personnel move, in December, was to dismiss five people, including his two tool makers.
"There's a lot of reluctance to add people," said Mr. Barre, whose name rhymes with "carry."
Despite statistics that show a strong growth rate for the nation's economy, this cautious approach to hiring, shared by legions of employers in both the manufacturing and service sectors, seems likely to continue because of powerful forces that have been reshaping corporate America for several years.
One factor is the realization during the recession that past staffing levels were not simply too high -- but counterproductive. Another influence is the rising cost of employee benefits like health care that make hiring increasingly expensive.
"The guy who earns $1,000 really costs $1,400," he continued, saying that the 40 percent markup for benefits compares with 36 to 37 percent a few years ago and less than 32 percent a decade ago.
 
Little Stimulus Is Seen
 Analysts say the Government's report of very sharp job gains in February is unsustainable, even considering that the bulk of those new jobs were part-time positions.
Nor does it seem likely that job-seekers, and employers like Barre, will be much aided soon by the Clinton Administration's economic program, one of whose goals is to generate an additional 500,000 jobs over the next year and 8 million by 1997.
"The countercyclical remedies offered by the Clinton Administration may not be sufficient to offset the powerful head winds of structural change," declared Stephen S. Roach, senior economist for Morgan Stanley & Company. "It's a real stretch to identify the emergence of any powerful new sources of job creation."
In fact, the Clinton program might retard job growth because of tax increases on the affluent and on corporations that could tend to drag down the overall economy.
 
Where the Trims Came
 The structural changes are evident at the Barre Company. Mr. Barre said cost-cutting undertaken during the recession pointed out just how flabby some operations had become.
"We had a plethora of supervisors," he said. By removing extra layers of paperwork, Mr. Barre says, the company now moves new orders to the shop floor in 3 days instead of 15. Barre, whose revenues run $4 million to $5 million a year, now has 17 salaried workers, down from 27 two years ago.
There was some belt-tightening at the top, too. Mr. Barre, who is 50, and who became the company's sole owner by buying out his two brothers in the 1980's, said he took a 35 percent pay cut last year.
Barre has also slashed its unionized blue-collar work force, which during the last year has contracted to 45 people from 61. Despite the recent pickup in business, Mr. Barre said he was still probably a month or two from reaching a "comfort level" with the economy that would prompt him to recall workers or hire new ones.
When overtime by his current work force no longer suffices, Mr. Barre said, eight laid-off workers will be rehired, followed by part-timers for the lower-skill jobs.
 
Impediments to Hiring
 But as he contemplates the need to put more people on the shop floor, Mr. Barre says he is increasingly inhibited by governmental and other burdens having little to do with stamping and punching sheet metal into precision chassis, panels and brackets for such customers as Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M.
In the end, he says, these burdens seem destined to discourage his kind of entrepreneurial company, for decades the source of much more job growth than the Fortune 500.
According to Mr. Barre, the problems include the rapid escalation of health-care costs; overregulation of banks to the point that lending is discouraged; thousand-dollar fines for violations of health and safety rules; New Jersey's nation-topping $5.05-an-hour minimum wage, and measures like the new Family and Medical Leave Act.
He also frets about the Administration's proposal to raise his $8,000 or more monthly energy bill by an as-yet undetermined amount through an energy tax and about talk of requiring employers to spend a certain percentage of payrolls on training.
 
Tax Breaks Not Applicable
 Mr. Barre dismisses a suggestion that Mr. Clinton's investment tax credit, at least, would help him. Accumulated losses have already reduced his tax liability to zero, leaving him nothing against which to apply such a credit. And even if he qualified, and the credit inspired him to buy new equipment, the machine would substitute for workers who might otherwise be hired.
Nor would the proposed 50 percent exclusion on capital gains help attract investors, he said, because it would apply only to investments in new companies.
Mr. Barre finds at least one favorable element in the Clinton program: the deficit reduction measures that Congress has been making progressively more credible.
"There are some real spending cuts, and if these do indeed get passed, that's going to keep interest rates down," Mr. Barre said. "That certainly is a plus."
 
Bemoaning Instability
 And he said that if the Administration followed through on welfare reform, like tying welfare payments to an obligation to work, as Mr. Clinton has recommended, this would tend to reduce unemployment and the drain on the employer-financed fund from which jobless benefits are paid.
But Mr. Barre holds little hope for relief on health care. He believes any dividends from cost containment will be used to finance coverage for the 35 million people who now lack it.
"One of the things a businessman looks for from government is stability and predictability," Mr. Barre said, lamenting its latest intrusions and the prospects for more. "But I negotiate a contract with my employees and the first thing the government does is come in and say I should give them something else, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred D. Barre, center, said that despite a pickup in business, he was not yed comfortable adding workers at his metal fabricating plant in Linden, N.J. He spoke with employees, Alcibiades Santos, left, and Rolando Ortiz. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BARRE CO MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARRE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); OVERTIME (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); 

PERSON: BARRE, FRED D; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



250 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Drug Manufacturers to Ask for Antitrust Exemption

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
Under intense pressure from President Clinton to cut prices, the nation's drug companies said today that they would ask the Justice Department for an exemption from antitrust laws to discuss price restraints.
Bruce J. Brennan, senior vice president and general counsel of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, said that as a result of a decision by the trade group's executive committee, he would make the request to the department this week. 
Drug executives discussed their desire for an antitrust exemption with White House officials on Monday.
The drug companies' request could put the Clinton Administration in an awkward position. While an antitrust exemption might help achieve the White House goal of lower drug prices, Federal courts have been hostile to price-fixing agreements. Maximum prices tend to inhibit competition and become minimum prices, the courts have said.
In 1982, for example, the Supreme Court struck down a price list setting maximum fees that could be charged by certain doctors in Arizona.
Lynn Shapiro Snyder, a Washington lawyer who specializes in health care, chuckled when informed of the request by drug companies.
"They are holding the feet of the Clinton Administration to the fire," Ms. Snyder said. "It is not enough merely to say that the pharmaceutical industry should voluntarily agree to hold back price increases. To accomplish that across the board may require a bunch of competitors to coordinate their activities. That's a fine goal for the White House. But another arm of the Government could allege in court that such coordinated action violates Federal antitrust statutes."
 
Clinton on Antitrust
 The Clinton Administration is already considering sweeping changes in Federal antitrust law, which it believes may be needed to revamp the nation's health-care system. For decades, doctors and hospitals have fiercely competed for shares of local health-care markets. But now the Administration wants them to join in networks.
Confidential work papers from the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform, headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, suggest that antitrust laws may need to be modified "to permit collaborative arrangements" or to change the balance of power between buyers and sellers of health care.
During the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he would "stop drug-price gouging." On Feb. 12, he denounced vaccine manufacturers, saying they had pursued profits "at the expense of our children." On Wall Street, drug stocks have slumped, partly in response to his comments, partly in the expectation that he will ask Congress for price controls on prescription drugs.
The drug industry is asking the Justice Department for a business review letter: in effect, an advisory opinion to assure drug companies that the Government will not prosecute them for setting maximum prices.
 
Past Promises
 Gina M. Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the agency normally tried to respond to such requests within 90 days.
A drug company is free to cut prices on its own. Ten companies accounting for 40 percent of the nation's prescription drug sales have voluntarily pledged to hold drug price increases to the general inflation rate, measured by the Consumer Price Index.
Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that prescription drug prices rose 5.7 percent last year and 50 percent in five years, and that they more than doubled over a decade. By contrast, the Consumer Price Index for all items rose 2.9 percent last year, 23 percent in five years and 45 percent in the decade.
Several members of Congress said they were skeptical of the drug companies' motives. The latest request was called "sort of a joke" by Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, the Ohio Democrat who heads the Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust matters.
 
Skeptical About Industry
 "You have to wonder if the drug companies want to get together to restrain price increases, which I doubt, or to resist demands by large purchasers for deep discounts," Mr. Metzenbaum said. "This is a scheme to keep prices from falling and to undermine efforts by the Clinton Administration to reduce the cost of health care through competition."
Senator David H. Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat who is a frequent critic of drug companies, said he would be cautious in dealing with the industry's latest overtures. "Any voluntary agreements to restrain drug prices must have a credible auditing process and must lower prices for the average cash-paying buyer," he said.
Mr. Brennan insisted that the drug companies were not engaged in a publicity stunt. If companies got together to discuss the frequency or amount of price changes without the blessing of the Justice Department, "they would be in violation of the antitrust laws," he said.
Under the strategy of managed competition favored by Mr. Clinton, huge groups of consumers and small businesses would band together and use their market power to bargain with doctors and hospitals. The work papers from Mrs. Clinton's group say the Administration assumes that these groups "will be local monopolies."
 
More Competition Sought
 A main goal of the President's plan is to slow the rise in health prices by stimulating competition among health-care networks. But many providers want to seize the occasion to get exemptions from antitrust laws for certain types of behavior.
The American Hospital Association has prepared legal brief contending that "collaboration among hospitals can reduce costs." But the Federal Trade Commission continues to challenge some hospital mergers on the ground that they tend to increase prices.
The American Medical Association is also asking the trade commission to let local medical societies punish doctors for fee gouging. Under this proposal, patient complaints could go to the local society, which would have the power to review the doctors' fees and expel a doctor whose charges were deemed to be unconscionable.
The A.M.A. wants local medical societies to be able to mediate disputes between doctors and patients over fees. It says doctors should be required to cooperate with mediation. Now, doctors do not have to participate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; LAW AND LEGISLATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (97%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); LAWYERS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CARTELS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); BIOLOGICS MFG (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); VACCINES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT; METZENBAUM, HOWARD M (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



251 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Mexican Court Changes in Trade Pact

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, told the Senate Finance Committee today that the United States would seek some changes in Mexico's legal system affecting labor and environmental cases during the coming negotiations on side agreements to the North American Free Trade Agreement.
When President Clinton was a candidate, he said he would not sign legislation putting the provisions of the free trade pact into law until three such accords had first been negotiated. Mr. Clinton said these agreements would cover labor and environmental matters and surges in imports that might result as the pact gradually reduced tariff and non-tariff trade barriers.
 
Willing to Walk Away
 Mr. Kantor, in his first appearance at a Congressional hearing since he took office, said the Clinton Administration would be willing to walk away from negotiations on the side agreements if necessary rather than strike a quick deal to insure that the free trade pact could take effect as scheduled on Jan. 1. 
 But he also reaffirmed the Administration's desire to keep the pact on its original timetable. He only made the comment about walking awayfrom the talks after Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, sought reassurance that the United States would not make large, last-minute concessions to meet the deadline.
Mr. Kantor told the senators that "a very fine starting point" for talks on the labor and environmental accords would be a special set of judicial procedures created by the original free trade pact for cases involving patents and copyrights.
"Let me suggest, not too subtly, that I believe worker rights and environmental rights are similarly important," he said.
The procedural changes could include new rights for plaintiffs to appeal the results of administrative proceedings to Mexican courts, Mr. Kantor added.
Environmental, labor and business groups in the United States have long criticized the extensive powers of Mexican Government agencies to make sweeping decisions with little notice, public comment or opportunity for judicial appeals.
The side agreements would also set up environmental and labor commissions representing Mexico, Canada and the United States. Mr. Kantor said these commissions might have the power to request or even order investigations by national governments into violations of their laws.
But he played down suggestions by some trade experts, including Senator Max S. Baucus, Democrat of Montana, that nations might also have the authority to impose trade sanctions if the commissions could not settle matters.
Jaime Serra Puche, Mexico's Minister of Trade and Industry, declined to discuss the specifics of Mr. Kantor's testimony, saying he had not yet read a transcript.
But he said in a telephone interview today that Mexico had set three principles for the negotiations, which are to begin on March 17. The side agreements must not reopen issues settled by the original free trade pact, must not include protectionist measures disguised as labor and environmental rules, and must respect each nation's sovereignty, Mr. Serra said.
 
Ban of Subsidies Considered
 Mr. Kantor also said today that the United States might seek a formal exchange of letters with Mexico barring the use of government money to buy the other country's businesses and move them across the border. Two Democratic Senators, Donald W. Riegle Jr. of Michigan and Mr. Moynihan, strongly criticized the Mexican Government's recent financial involvement in a fund with the sole goal of buying American companies and moving them to Mexico.
When told of Mr. Kantor's testimony, Robert F. Housman, a staff lawyer and trade specialist at the Center for International and Environmental Law, said that changes in some Mexican legal processes would be "a good starting point." He added that environmental groups would want the ability to bring cases in each country's courts.
The center is providing legal counsel to two dozen environmental groups that want extensive side agreements. Mr. Housman said he was disappointed that Mr. Kantor did not envision three-nation commissions with the ability to impose trade sanctions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, testifying yesterday before the Senate Finance Committee. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; COURTS; ENVIRONMENT; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (69%); PATENTS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (63%); 

PERSON: KANTOR, MICKEY (TRADE REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (90%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



252 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Weeding Federal Panels, but Where?

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
When President Clinton vowed to eliminate some of the 700 Federal advisory committees that "have spread across this Government like kudzu," he cited one panel that actually went out of business last year.
The continued operation of the Commission on the Bicentenary of the Constitution -- four years after the bicentenary was celebrated -- was cited by the White House as a typical example of Government waste. As it happened, the panel died last June 30. 
 That the Administration was unaware of its demise may say something about the obstacles in the President's path as he prepares, in the name of efficiency, to attack the proliferating panels. Before he can weed them out, he has to find them. And like kudzu, the tenacious vine sometimes planted in the South for soil stabilization, many will not go away easily.
There are more than 2,000 Federal advisory committees, but most were set up at the direction of Congress, so the President cannot touch them; instead, he is attacking a third of the 700 non-statutory panels that have crept in unnoticed and cost the taxpayers about $150 million a year.
 
A Shadowy Existence
 Most of the panels keep a low profile in the nether reaches of the Government labyrinth. And many of the departments' public affairs offices had trouble coming up with a list of committees under their auspices, let alone describing what they do.
"Beats the heck out of me," said Rick O'Bourne, an Energy Department spokesman, when asked what the Health and Environmental Research Committee did. Mr. O'Bourne, however, was one of only a few people who could even name any of his department's committees immediately.
Under the Clinton proposal, Federal departments must specify a total of about 230 such panels that they deem unnecessary or duplicative, with the aim of saving the taxpayer around $100 million, the White House says.
Their exotic or enigmatic names often belie the panels' mundane missions. The Committee of Nine, for example, may evoke images of a powerful politburo dealing with weighty matters. In fact, the panel consists of the administrators of eight agricultural experiment stations and a home economics research office who advise the Secretary of Agriculture on cooperative research projects.
 
Some Thankless Tasks
 Just because the Government does not know what is going on in its own departments does not mean that the committees are a waste of taxpayers' money. After all, mostly non-Federal employees sit on the committees and, for a token per diem payment, set about such thankless tasks as setting safety and environmental standards, a job that Federal employees do not feel qualified to do without input from people in privately owned businesses.
The Scrapie Regulation Negotiation Advisory Committee is not as bureaucratic as it sounds. Scrapie is a neural disease found in sheep, and the committee has set up a flock registration program that monitors flocks of sheep for five years to certify that they are scrapie-free.
Some panels may be harder to justify. The Advisory Panel for the Dictionary of Occupational Titles was one of five committees singled out by the President last month as typical examples of Government waste. But a spokesman at the Labor Department said it was premature to conclude that this panel would be given the ax.
He said the panel served a very specific purpose: It advises those involved in drawing up the Dictionary of Occupational Titles, which lists all the job titles in the United States and the qualifications and education needed for these jobs. The dictionary is used by guidance counselors, researchers and employers and is available in most public libraries.
Whether it is necessary for a 15-member panel with an annual budget of $75,000 to meet and discuss the vital statistics of every job title in the United States is something for the new Secretary of Labor, Robert B. Reich, to decide.
 
Access to Aircraft Toilets
 The Committee on Aircraft Accessibility has "proven to be extremely valuable," said Bob Ashby, deputy assistant to the general counsel at the Department of Transportation. The panel, made up of representatives of airlines and people with disabilities, thrashes out the design requirements for access to toilets by the disabled on narrow-bodied aircraft.
The Defense Department has more than 66 advisory committees, costing taxpayers $15 million a year. "We feel they are quite necessary," a Pentagon spokesman said, "and we constantly review them and determine whether they should remain."
Among more than 300 committees in the orbit of the Department of Health and Human Services are ones with tongue-twister titles like the Advisory Committee on Special Studies Relating to the Possible Long-Term Health Effects of Phenoxy Herbicides and Contaminants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PATRONAGE US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SHEEP FARMING (84%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (83%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



253 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Accounting for the lofty share price of Anchor Bancorp.

BYLINE: By Saul Hansell

 BODY:
THE stock of most healthy savings and loans sells for about 1.2 times the institution's book value. The very best commercial banks, when they are acquired, sell for 2.5 times book value. Why then is Anchor Bancorp, which just a few years ago was on the brink of failure, selling for $14.50 a share, nearly three times its tangible book value of $4.98? This has perplexed the savings bank's chief executive, James M. Large Jr., who has seen the stock run up from less than $1 two years ago.
The answer is that investors are looking at Anchor's earnings rather than book value. Anchor earned $1.85 a share in the last four quarters for a price-earnings multiple of 7.8, which is about average for healthy savings institutions. And investors have become confident that the bank, under Mr. Large, has put its problems behind it so that the earnings will continue to grow. 
 "Jim Large has taken Anchor from whistling past the cemetery to one of the surviving institutions," said Bruce Harting, an analyst with Salomon Brothers, who says his clients have become very interested in Anchor in recent weeks.
Indeed, Anchor's institutional ownership has increased from 10 percent to 20 percent within the last six months, Mr. Large said. And it is beginning to be followed by Wall Street analysts.
In the early and mid-1980's, Anchor bought a string of 13 sick savings and loan associations from the Government. And it expanded into other financial businesses including leasing, mortgage banking nationwide and construction lending.
When Mr. Large took over in 1989, he closed or sold most of these businesses except Anchor's branches and mortgage offices on the East Coast. He cut costs, slashing the work force from 3,400 to 1,500 jobs. He also required remaining employees to work longer weeks and trim vacation days.
Mr. Large also restructured the bank's portfolio, which consists largely of mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, to eliminate interest rate risk. Now the bank invests almost entirely in adjustable-rate mortgages, which means that about half its portfolio consists of loans in California, where such mortgages are popular. While the bank had some commercial real estate loans and some junk bonds, the problems with these investments did not prove crippling.
The bank's most difficult challenge has been to rebuild its capital in the face of ever-changing regulations. As it acquired the failed institutions, Anchor was granted more than $500 million in "supervisory good will," essentially the right to report additional capital on the banks' books. Much of this paper capital has been wiped out by subsequent regulations.
Indeed, as of Dec. 31, Anchor was in compliance with minimum capital regulations, but on Jan. 1 it fell out of compliance because some $20 million in supervisory good will was eliminated. Mr. Large said he expects his capital to meet the requirements again on March 31.
One source of confusion about Anchor's book value is $159 million in preferred stock owned by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as a result of Anchor's acquisition of troubled institutions. The F.D.I.C. is owed more than $40 million in back dividends, and Anchor can't pay a dividend on its common shares until it pays that sum.
Some analysts suggest that if the preferred stock were treated more like common stock, Anchor's book value would be closer to $10 a share, and thus the price-to-book ratio would be closer to industry averages. Yet because of the strong valuation of Anchor's shares, the company may be able to sell new stock, which in turn could allow it to redeem the F.D.I.C.'s shares.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABKR (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: ANCHOR BANCORP INC DIME BANCORP INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANCHOR BANCORP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); STOCKS AND BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL JAMES M LARGE JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



254 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Concern Mounts Over Closing of Bases

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
The New York region was largely spared in the last round of military base closings in 1991, but members of Congress from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut say the bullet may be harder to dodge this time. With the public and Congress clamoring for budget cuts, they say, the military will have much less room to maneuver, however well founded the objections.
"This time we're worried," said Representative Jim Saxton, a New Jersey Republican whose district includes McGuire Air Force Base in Wrightstown. 
 The base, which employs about 12,000 military and civilian workers, is expected to be on the preliminary list of bases around the country to be closed or reduced in size. Others in the region include the Navy's submarine base in Groton, Conn., the Navy home port on Staten Island, and Griffiss Air Force Base in upstate New York. The list is to be released later this week.
"There's an increased national attention on budget reductions on all levels," said Representative Susan Molinari, a Staten Island Republican. And there is little doubt, she said, that a major share of the budget cuts will come from defense.
"The Navy is facing this inordinate pressure to cut, cut cut," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut.
 
Some New Arguments
 But there are some new arguments to be made as well.
At a meeting today between Defense Secretary Les Aspin and members of Connecticut's delegation, for example, Senators Lieberman and Christopher J. Dodd, both Democrats, argued that closing the submarine base in Groton, which has 12,300 military and civilian employees, would devastate eastern Connecticut and cancel out any economic stimulus efforts that the Clinton Administration might pursue there. It is not a case that could have been made even six months ago.
"We ought to, at least, if nothing else, at least slow down on this until we've got a policy in place," Mr. Dodd said.
In other places around the region, the framework for opposing cutbacks is already built. That should guarantee at least a certain level of noise, if nothing else.
Representative Saxton, for example, began meeting last week with local groups formed in 1990 and 1991 in the fight to save Fort Dix, which is also in his district. On Friday the groups hired a consultant, who was an assistant counsel to the last base-closing commission, to help formulate New Jersey's case. And this week Mr. Saxton began issuing his own daily fax-sheet update, called the McGuire Watch.
 
Fact-Studded Reports
 In New York, money appropriated by the Legislature to help military-dependent areas plan their futures will be used to make the state's case for retaining the Staten Island home port and the Griffiss base. The effort has produced fact-studded reports and glossy brochures, including a 10-minute video about why Fort Drum in upstate New York, while not expected to be on this week's closure list, is too "modern, flexible and effective" to be shut.
New York City officials are also united behind the efforts on the home port, where six ships are based along with about 2,000 sailors and their families. Mayor David N. Dinkins, until he changed his mind last year, had argued that the danger of a nuclear accident at the port outweighed the economic advantages for the city.
New York City and the region may also have an argument as a sort of economic basket case that deserves special treatment. The region has been one of the areas hardest hit by the recession.
 
A Dire Warning
 Referring to the Groton area, Senator Lieberman said: "This is a part of our state that is in a recession now. If the sub base is closed, it will go into a depression."
But Ms. Molinari and other members of the region's Congressional delegations said that beyond the pressure to cut the military budget, fighting back will be harder this time around because the list is being prepared by the military branches themselves.
In the last round, bases to be considered for closing were proposed by members of Congress. That left lawmakers free to play the military against the base-closing commission in bolstering the local cause.
"It served us well to argue that the Navy believed it was rational" to retain the home port, Ms. Molinari said. "This does make it a little more difficult."
 
Vital to National Defense
 Yet the delegations will continue to try to convince Mr. Aspin that despite what his own military planners are suggesting, certain bases in the New York region are indispensable to the national defense.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, who also met with Mr. Aspin today, asserted that closing Griffiss Air Force Base would leave the Air Force with too few points on the East Coast from which the United States can respond to "many of the potential conflicts in Europe and Asia."
In Connecticut, Senator Dodd evoked the specter of terrorism. If the Groton base is closed, he said, and consolidated into a "mega-base," perhaps in Newport, R.I., he said, the submarine fleet would be more vulnerable by being more concentrated.
"Did anyone notice what happened at the World Trade Center?" he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Christopher J. Dodd, left, and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut with Representative Barbara B. Kennelly at a news conference where they discussed the effects of possible base closings in the state. (Associated Press)
 
Map shows locations of threatened military bases in the New York region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); US NAVY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) MILITARY BASES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK JIM SAXTON (78%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



255 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Stock Rise Continues as Dow Gains 2.70

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Stocks bobbed up a bit to new highs yesterday as individual investors followed through on Monday's mighty advance. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.70 points, to 3,472.12, a second straight record, as the American Stock Exchange index also reached a new high.
Even as the mass migration from bonds to stocks that propelled the Dow 64.84 points higher on Monday nearly ceased yesterday, strategists were impressed that the market was so steady. 
 "It's a sign that yesterday's rally was not just an aberration," said Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch. He added, however, that the market's progress is about due for a slight reversal before resuming in the spring.
Big Board gainers outnumbered decliners by about 11 to 8, with the Standard & Poor's 500 off slightly but the New York Stock Exchange composite index fractionally ahead to another record. Trading volume reached 290.7 million shares, moderately more than on Monday.
Much of yesterday's temperate buying came from individuals. "After the sharks finish eating, the smaller fish are still out there," said Tracy Herrick, chief investment strategist at Jefferies & Company.
With no quote machines on their desks, small investors often learn of the market's action from the evening news or morning papers. They sometimes sell the day after plunges and buy after rallies, with their decisions most evident in the smaller, Nasdaq and American Exchange stocks.
Yesterday, the Nasdaq Composite index gained 1.73 points, to 688.96, and the American Stock Exchange Composite index up 2.29, to 419.02, breaking a record set Feb. 8.
Cyclical and interest-sensitive stocks continued to lead the market, although their gains yesterday were far less uniform or dramatic than the day before.
The USX Steel Group rose 1 1/8, to 40 1/2, and Alcoa 1 3/8, to 73 3/8. Several major banking stocks hit new 365-day highs, among them Citicorp, up 7/8, to 27 7/8, and Wells Fargo, up 3 1/8, to 108 5/8. Low interest rates have let banks borrow at much lower rates than they lend.
Thomas McManus, a market analyst at Morgan Stanley, said that falling interest rates in Europe could revive demand for the products of America's global manufacturers, helping cyclical stocks continue their ride.
The largest percentage gainer among the S.& P. 500 was Primerica, up 4 3/4, or 11.9 percent, to 44 3/4. Primerica is seeking to buy the Shearson Lehman Brothers brokerage operations from American Express, which rose 1 1/4, to 28.
Payless Cashways, a building materials retailer in an initial public offering at 12 3/4 a share, jumped to 14 1/2 on heavy volume in its first day of trading. Intel warrants, giving holders the right to buy Intel stock at higher prices each year through 1998, came out at 30 but fell to 29, as Intel common stock dropped a point to 118.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); MS (NYSE) (51%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (78%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (68%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); ALCOA INC (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); INTEL CORP (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BUILDING SUPPLY (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



256 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Solomon J. Buchsbaum, Physicist And Presidential Adviser, 63, Dies

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Dr. Solomon J. Buchsbaum, a physicist and top official at Bell Laboratories who served as a science adviser to United States Presidents for the last 22 years, died on Monday at a hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 63 and lived in Westfield, N.J.
The cause was multiple myeloma, his family said. 
 Dr. Buchsbaum was the chairman of the White House Science Council under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush and was chairman of the Energy Research Advisory Board under President Jimmy Carter. He was also on President Richard M. Nixon's Science Advisory Committee and President Gerald Ford's Committee on Science and Technology.
He also served as a consultant to nuclear power, science and military agencies. He was chairman of the Defense Science Board from 1972 to 1977 and an adviser on the Strategic Defense Initiative, known as the Star Wars system, and on the deployment of MX missiles.
In his 45 years at Bell, Dr. Buchsbaum rose to several high-ranking posts. Since 1979 he was the senior vice president in charge of technology systems.
He supervised projects dealing with fiber-optic communications, digital signal processing, advanced satellites, computers, software, military systems and high-definition television.
Dr. Buchsbaum began at Bell in 1958 as a researcher on gaseous and solid plasmas. He wrote 50 published articles on his specialty and was awarded eight patents. He was the associate editor of three physics journals and chairman of the plasma division of the American Physical Society.
He served on boards at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, the Rand Corporation, Draper Laboratory and the Argonne and Sandia National Laboratories.
His honors included defense and energy agency medals, the National Medal of Science from President Reagan and awards from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering and the National Academy of Engineering.
Dr. Buchsbaum was born in Poland. His parents died in the Holocaust, but he and his sister avoided capture.
As a teen-ager he moved to Canada. Originally he planned to be an accountant, but his mastery of physics won him a scholarship in that field. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees at McGill University and his doctorate at M.I.T.
Surviving are his wife of 37 years, the former Phyllis Isenman; a daughter, Rachel J., of Winchester, Mass.; two sons, David J., of Atlanta and Adam L., of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Dorothy Steinbach of Glen Rock, N.J., and three grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Solomon J. Buchsbaum. (AT&T Bell Laboratories, 1989)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%); INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC (65%); SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES (54%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (52%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); US PRESIDENTS (92%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); PHYSICS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); BLOOD DISORDERS (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (70%); PATENTS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (66%); DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING (66%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); PUBLISHING (65%); 

PERSON: BUCHSBAUM, SOLOMON J (DR); LAMBERT, BRUCE RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



257 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: California Raising $118.4 Million

 BODY:
The State of California yesterday priced for sale to the public a $118.4 million bond issue through underwriters led by Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. The proceeds will be used to refund in advance previous debt sold when interest rates were higher.
The offering, which was repriced to yield slightly less because of good investor demand, produced a maximum yield of about 5.385 percent for an electric refunding revenue bond due in 2013. The taxable equivalent of that yield is about 7.80 percent for investors in the 31 percent Federal tax bracket. 
 Yields on serial bonds with shorter maturities range from 2.10 percent in 1993 to 5.35 percent in 2010. For investors in the 31 percent bracket, the equivalent taxable yields would run from 3.04 percent to about 7.75 percent.
Underwriters said that the bond issue was rated AA- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation and that they expected Moody's Investors Service to rate it Aa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES BONDS (93%); BOND ISSUES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



258 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Plan Would Soften Banking Rules

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
Hoping to spur commercial lending, the Clinton Administration has developed a set of revised banking regulations meant to encourage a mellower mind-set among bank examiners without encouraging lenders to rebuild shaky loan portfolios.
The proposed new regulations, to be introduced by President Clinton on Wednesday at a White House gathering of business executives, are being presented as a form of economic stimulus that costs the Government nothing, requires no new legislation and benefits mainly small businesses, which the Administration says have the greatest potential to create new jobs and the hardest time getting credit. 
 At the heart of the plan are subtle changes in how real estate is appraised and how weak loans are treated, according to industry officials who have been briefed by Administration officials who fashioned the revision.
Among other things, the proposed rules would alter how banks are required to appraise real estate used as collateral and to document the ability of small borrowers to repay commercial loans.
These are among other proposed changes:
*Revising regulations on how examiners rate loans to businesses that are not in default but are deemed troubling because of things like incomplete documentation, declining markets and outdated financial reports. In effect, as long as a borrower continued to make payments, examiners would be discouraged from requiring a bank to set aside reserves or otherwise restrict so-called character loans.
*Setting new, more lenient standards for making appraisals of real estate when property is used as collateral for a commercial loan.
*Allowing banks to change how they treat loans that are partly written off once a borrower returns to financial health. Under current rules, banks must book the repayments into their reserves and cannot restore the full value of the loan to the portfolio of assets.
*Allowing banks to pool small-business loans together for purposes of examinations. That way, as long as the portfolio as a whole appeared healthy, problems with a single loan would not prevent the bank from continuing to make such loans.
*Relaxing bank examiners' rigid positions by subjecting their decisions to appeals by banks.
Roger Altman, Deputy Treasury Secretary and one of several Administration officials who has been drumming up support for the program, told a banking group in Washington on Monday that the changes "will modernize a series of outdated regulations and examiner attitudes, and make it easier for lenders to lend."
But Lawrence Lindsey, a member of the Federal Reserve Board, said in a speech today that "there is very little we can do simply by changing regulations. Most of what we do is dictated by the law of the land."
 
 
Limits of Change
 Fearing that the changes in the rules would invite a return to flawed banking practices, the Administration will limit many of the changes to small businesses and healthy banks.
The regulators are keenly aware that partly because of stricter regulations, banks have charged off billions of dollars in bad loans, added billions to their equity and reserves and attained the highest capital ratios in 25 years -- trends that no one wants to reverse.
Because key members of Congress are set against undoing the new laws that have tightened regulations in the past few years, the Administration has decided at least for the time being to make its changes around the regulatory margins. The new rules will take months to write.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; SMALL BUSINESS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); ROGER ALTMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



259 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Prices for Natural Gas Jump On Cold and Supply Jitters

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Natural gas futures prices rose sharply yesterday on reports of relatively low supplies and the temporary shutdown of a Canadian pipeline as cold weather headed for the Midwest.
Other energy prices finished mixed on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Natural gas for delivery in April surged 9.7 cents, to $1.921 for 1,000 cubic feet, on the New York Merc. Crude oil for April slipped 3 cents, to $20.68 a barrel; April heating oil rose 0.16 cent, to 58.25 cents a gallon, and April unleaded gasoline fell 0.14 cent, to $59.36 cents a gallon.
The forecast of colder weather and private estimates putting American natural gas inventories 7 percent below a year ago were "classic ingredients for higher prices," said Ed Ryan, a gas broker-analyst at Dean Witter in New York.
The rally accelerated after the Nova Corporation of Alberta, a Canadian pipeline operator, announced a 10-day shutdown of its system, which supplies up to 400 million cubic feet of gas daily to the Midwest and the West, about 1 percent of United States consumption.
"That took a market that wanted to go up anyway and gave it a reason to go up," said Fred Brill, an analyst at Pegasus Econometric.
The shutdown was initially reported as unscheduled, which would have forced domestic gas dealers to scramble for supplies. But Nova said in a statement that the move was for scheduled maintenance and that arrangements had been made to make up at least some of the shortfall.
Perceptions that economic growth will raise gas consumption also helped prices to firm and could provide support in the long term, said David Pruner, president of KCS Energy Risk Management.
"It looks like the economic recovery will continue to increase demand, month after month," he said.
On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, pork belly futures rose the permitted daily limit of 2 cents a pound for the fourth straight day. But livestock futures retreated. Live cattle for April delivery fell 0.15 cent, to 81.70 cents a pound; March feeder cattle fell 0.30 cent. to 85.70 cents a pound; April live hogs fell 0.38 cent, to 48.37 cents a pound, and March frozen pork bellies rose 2 cents, to 49.17 cents a pound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NOVA CHEMICALS CORP (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; GAS (FUEL); PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); PORK (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); HOG & PIG FARMING (67%); RISK MANAGEMENT (66%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



260 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Stronger Against Yen As Japan's Slump Continues

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The dollar strengthened against the yen yesterday as traders questioned whether the Japanese currency should be as strong as it is.
Gold prices declined. Gold for current delivery fell 50 cents, to $326.60 an ounce, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The Republic National Bank said gold slipped 25 cents an ounce, to a late bid price of $326.75. 
 The dollar ended the day in New York at 117.75 yen, up from 116.81 yen late Monday.
"The yen doesn't deserve to be so strong right now," said Jim Maccario, vice president at the Bank of Boston. The yen is just off its post-World War II high of 115.85 yen to the dollar, set Feb. 22.
Mr. Maccario said that based on Japan's poor economic situation, the yen should be at 120 to the dollar or more.
 
Hit Highs Earlier
 The yen hit highs amid speculation that members of the Group of Seven industrialized nations would take steps to bolster the yen and curb Japanese exports when they met in London last month. The yen has remained strong even though the group remained tight-lipped on currency issues.
A stronger yen makes Japanese exports more expensive and gives Japanese consumers more buying power abroad.
Talk of lower interest rates in Japan also helped the dollar yesterday, said Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in New York.
The Bank of Japan last cut interest rates Feb. 3, when it lowered the discount rate to 2.5 percent from 3.25 percent in an effort to spur economic growth. More bad news about the Japanese economy has prompted talk of another cut, Mr. Weinberg said.
Lower rates abroad make yields on American investments more attractive, increasing demand for dollars.
Dollar gains against the mark were limited today by the Bundesbank selling dollars to replenish its supply of marks, said Albert Soria, foreign exchange manager at Kansallis Osake Pankki.
The Bundesbank and other central banks sold marks in September to ease tensions in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, Mr. Soria said. Now the Bundesbank is selling dollars to get the marks back, he said.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar rose to 1.6665 German marks, from 1.6635 marks on Monday. The dollar hit a 1993 high of 1.6742 marks on March 5.
Among other currencies, the British pound weakened to $1.439, from $1.442 Monday. The dollar strengthened to 1.541 Swiss francs, from 1.5396, and rose to 5.654 French francs, from 5.637.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); WORLD WAR II (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



261 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Data Can Move 45,000 Times Faster, for a Price

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The most debated set of letters in the telecommunications business these days is not A.T.& T. or MCI, but A.T.M. And it has nothing to do with getting cash from an automated teller machine.
A.T.M., short for asynchronous transfer mode, is a futuristic format for packaging and transmitting computerized data and images over telephone lines. It is blazingly quick, able to send digitized information at more than 45,000 times the speed available on typical telephone lines. But the technology is also fiendishly expensive, at least so far. 
 Besides its speed, the main appeal of A.T.M. is that it offers a single standardized way to transmit information -- whether electronic books, high-definition movies or three-dimensional medical images. A.T.M. can be used for sending such material to a co-worker down the hall or to a client across the country.
"The electronic superhighway that President Clinton wants to build, the one that does for information what the interstate highway does for cars and trucks, is going to use A.T.M.," said William J. Marshall, senior managing director of communications for Bear, Stearns & Company, the large Wall Street brokerage house.
Bear, Stearns is currently testing A.T.M. equipment. If the experiment proves satisfactory, Mr. Marshall said, the company may buy the equipment from the maker, who he said he was not free to identify. He also declined to estimate the costs, which might run into millions of dollars.
Indeed, cost is one of the big sticking points with A.T.M., said Paul D. Callahan, an analyst for Forrester Research Inc., in Cambridge, Mass. In a recent study on A.T.M., Mr. Callahan calculated that the cost of connecting each computer in a network to A.T.M. would be $4,000, compared with $900 a connection for simply upgrading an existing personal computer network to make it faster.
"People in the telecommunications industry are so pumped about A.T.M. as some kind of network nirvana," he said, "and they shouldn't be." There may not be enough big customers like Bear, Stearns to make it worthwhile.
Still, many potential customers are interested. Tomorrow, more than 100 large companies and government agencies -- including Boeing, the Treasury Department and the Walt Disney Company -- will meet in Washington with the Sprint Corporation and other potential A.T.M. suppliers to discuss their needs and expectations for the technology.
This and similar meetings elsewhere are expected to help determine the crucial technical requirements that will insure that all A.T.M. products can work with one another, regardless of the brand. Vendors see a billion-dollar market in the making.
The A.T.M. format has already been endorsed by many phone companies, the largest customers for such equipment, who must then provide services to corporate customers and, perhaps, residential customers. These phone companies include all the major long-distance carriers as well as many local carriers like the New York Telephone Company, whose tasks include providing high-capacity information circuits to Wall Street.
Unlike most current computer networking formats, A.T.M. has a signature way of parceling information into manageable bundles of computer bits that allow these parcels to pass smoothly from an office computer cable to a local telephone wire to long-distance fiber-optic lines. There is no need for the traditional "protocol conversion," or technical translation, of the information packets along the way. And unlike earlier formats, A.T.M. can work at different speeds, depending on how "wide" or "narrow" the circuit it is traveling through.
 
An Alternative Approach
 Moreover, A.T.M. deals with information in its entirety, rather than using the data compression process that will be deployed in the near future to allow cable television networks to carry 500 channels. Such compression methods actually remove part of the information, in roughly the same way orange juice is rendered down into juice concentrate.
A.T.M. is by no means the telecommunications industry's first attempt to promote a unified approach to computer networking. Since the 1980's, for instance, something known as the integrated services digital network, or I.S.D.N., has been touted as the magic carpet on which homes and businesses would ride into the Information Age. But demand has been only sporadic, seeming to back up the early critics who derided I.S.D.N. as standing for "innovations subscribers don't need."
Many business customers criticized I.S.D.N. as a solution in search of a problem, a creation of engineers who had failed to ask potential users what they really needed.
"We don't want to ride that horse again," said William G. Pfeiffer, senior vice president for technology at Sprint, who will be a speaker at tomorrow's A.T.M. industry pulse-taking meeting in Washington.
 
Scrambling the Sequence
 The "asynchronous" transfer in A.T.M. means that information is loaded onto telephone lines out of sequence, allowing numerous computer conversations to occur simultaneously. These packets of information are reassembled in their normal sequence at the receiving end.
This approach to transmitting computerized information, known generically as packet switching, has been around for years. One of the breakthroughs with A.T.M. is the uniform size of the packet, known in computer terms as a cell, which enables different computers made by different manufacturers to converse. The cell size, 53 groups of eight bits, became an industry standard last year.
Computers today are so fast that companies find it easy to build up huge computer files of as much as 10 million bits of computer code, the equivalent of a copy of "Moby Dick."
With today's transmission formats, the most widely used business telephone lines can handle only 56,000 bits a second, meaning it would take three minutes to transfer a 10-million-bit file. That may not seem like a long time, but practically speaking, three minutes can stretch into many minutes or even hours, as hundreds of other computer users vie to simultaneously use the network.
With A.T.M., data can lumber along at 56,000 bits a second if that is the top speed the phone line will accommodate. But if a high-speed fiber-optic line is used, A.T.M. can rev up to 2.5 billion bits a second. In other words, it could send nearly 45,000 copies of "Moby Dick" in the time it takes present methods to send just one. "Three minutes is an eternity for us," said E. W. (Bud) Huber, manager for strategic planning for the Hughes Aircraft Company in Los Angeles.
Hughes, which operates more than 53,000 personal computers tied together by more than 1,000 local area networks, is shopping for what is likely to be one of the biggest purchases of A.T.M. equipment this year.
As an alternative to personal trips or shipping by Federal Express, Mr. Huber envisions an A.T.M. network that allows Hughes engineers in California and Alabama, for example, to use desktop computers to hold videoconferences and swap three-dimensional computer images with NASA officials in Florida.
"It would mean we could move the work to the people," he said, "instead of moving people to the work."

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (66%); DIS (NYSE) (62%); S (NYSE) (62%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (66%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (82%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (62%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); BOEING CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; TELEPHONES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (71%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); SECURITIES BROKERS (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



262 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Panel Backs Testing All Babies To Uncover Hearing Losses Early

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md., March 9

 BODY:
One in every 1,000 babies born in the United States is deaf at birth or suffers a severe hearing disorder. Yet fewer than half of them are recognized as being hearing-impaired until their condition has already compromised speech and language development, a panel of experts assembled by the National Institutes of Health has concluded.
The 15-member panel, which met here for two days last week, recommended that all infants be screened for signs of hearing impairment, noting that the current practice of testing only those considered at high risk of hearing problems, like children exposed to severe infections early in life, allows many cases to go undiagnosed until it is too late to forestall lifelong problems. The panel recommended testing for all infants in the first three months of life, preferably at hospitals before they are discharged from newborn nurseries. 
 Hearing impairment can interfere with language development even before children move through the babbling stage. And for those with profound hearing loss, early detection can be essential for adjusting to life with both hearing and deaf people.
 
Testing in Hospitals
 Early testing in hospitals is superior to waiting for later visits to the pediatrician, the panel said, because a vast majority of the nation's annual four million live births occur there and the children are accessible. In addition, the equipment and personnel needed for the tests can be centrally located at hospitals.
"Our recommendation is to test all children shortly after birth," Dr. Gregory J. Matz, a professor of otolaryngology at Loyola University of Chicago Medical Center and chairman of the panel, said after the meeting. "It's the only way to get all children and not miss any." He noted that in addition to those with severe hearing loss, a further four or five of every 1,000 newborns also have some mild hearing loss.
The average age for identifying deaf or severely hearing-impaired children in this country is when they are almost 3 years old, child hearing experts said, and lesser degrees of hearing loss go undetected even longer. Since the first three years of life are the crucial period for developing speech and language skills, they said, reduced hearing acuity in this period can interfere with communication skills for the rest of a person's life.
In addition, the panel said, early hearing problems hinder the development of the auditory nervous system, and can be harmful to social, emotional and academic development, as well as to a person's vocational and economic potential.
"Delayed identification and management of severe to profound hearing impairment may impede the hearing-impaired child's ability to adapt to life in a hearing world or to prepare for life in the hearing-impaired or deaf community," the panel said in a draft report released at the conclusion of the meeting.
 
Praise for Recommendations
 Mary Pat Moeller, coordinator for the Center for Childhood Deafness at Boys Town National Research Hospital in Omaha, said the recommendations of such an influential panel were "vitally important" for getting more children and their families into therapy.
"When you have a hearing loss, it disrupts the entire family," Ms. Moeller said. "How parents react can either help or exacerbate the problem, such as when they become overprotective or overly controlling of the child. The earlier in life we start dealing with hearing loss, the better for all concerned."
If all newborns go through the two-stage screening process recommended by the panel, Dr. Matz estimated, it will cost the nation $150 million to $200 million a year. However, he said, early treatment could save the country billions of dollars in earning power that might otherwise be lost and in the cost of special education for those who would otherwise develop social or learning difficulties.
 
Cost to Society
 Studies indicate that a child whose hearing loss is not detected until the age of 3 or later earns on average $400,000 to $800,000 less over a lifetime because of a reduced ability to use language, Dr. Matz said. High school students with hearing loss detected late usually read at the fourth- to seventh-grade level, he noted.
The panel was made up of experts in hearing loss, including doctors, nurses, social workers, researchers and representatives of community health organizations.
Doctors have historically tested only children who fall into high-risk categories for possible hearing problems, but the panel said these criteria seem to be a factor in only half the children subsequently found to have impairment. Conditions that increase the risk of deafness and that should provoke concern from doctors and parents include significant head injury, viral encephalitis or bacterial meningitis infections, exposure to excessive noise, exposure to herpes virus or cytomegalovirus during birth, hereditary hearing problems and repeated, persistent middle-ear infections.
The panel cautioned that even with widespread newborn screening, some cases of hearing impairment might evade detection and that parents and doctors should not develop a false sense of security about hearing just because tests have found no early problems.
For universal screening of infants, the panel recommended a relatively new screening tool that measures otoacoustic emissions.
Dr. James F. Jerger of Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, one of the panel members, said the oto acoustic emissions test costs about $25 to perform; the necessary testing equipment costs $10,000 to $14,000. If the first test indicates a possible hearing problem, the panel recommended, a second, more common test should be performed to confirm the finding, called auditory brainstem response.
If past experience is an indication, Dr. Matz said, only about one in 10 infants receiving the first screening test would have to go on to the second test.
 
 
 
TESTING A BABY'S HEARING
 A Federal panel has newly recommended these hearing tests for screening all infants:
Test: Otoacoustic emissions
 Average cost: $25.
When test should be done: Before an infant leaves the hospital.
How the test works: Otoacoustic emissions are low-level, inaudible sounds produced spontaneously by the inner ear. A probe containing a tiny sound source can evoke the emissions in people with normal hearing. A microphone in the probe measures the emissions, which are thought to refelect inner ear function.
Advantages and disadvantages: Although the test is still experimental, it is quick, noninvasive and inexpensive.
Test: Auditory brainstem response audiometry.
Average cost: $75-$125.
When test should be done: When an infant fails otoacoustic emissions testing. It is also useful in infants and small childrent unable or unwilling to respond to behavioral testing methods.
 How the test works: Electrodes are attached to various locations on the child's head. Whe the child is sleeping or resting quietly, sounds are channeled through earphones. The electrodes record the electrical activity from the acoustic nerve and in other parts of the brain involved in hearing.
 The test is long proven and has been recommended for screening high-risk infants for 15 years. However, it is technically more difficult, costs more and takes more time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEAFNESS; SPEECH; LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; TESTS AND TESTING; BABIES; EARS AND HEARING DEAFNESS (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); PEDIATRIC TESTING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



263 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 3; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
The Black Family's Role in Society

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:

Climbing Jacob's Ladder
The Enduring Legacy of African-American Families
By Andrew Billingsley
444 pages. Simon & Schuster. $27.50.
In his classic study, "An American Dilemma," published 49 years ago, Gunnar Myrdal wrote that the problems confronting disadvantaged blacks in a dominant white society put a spoke through the wheels of democracy. Yet the Swedish economist recognized that despite slavery and adversity, blacks helped to hold the country's social fabric together. In his chapter on black family life in the rural South, he said that blacks had built up their own kind of close-knit family organizations that were conducive to social health.
Now in "Climbing Jacob's Ladder," Andrew Billingsley, a respected black sociologist, builds on Myrdal's work and offers his own surprisingly optimistic study about the inner strength and stability of black families. Professor Billingsley, chairman of the family studies department at the University of Maryland and visiting scholar in residence at Spelman College in Atlanta, finds that like white strivers on the lower rungs of society, blacks also want to gain entry into the American middle class. The new book, a sequel to his "Black Families in White America," published in 1968, continues his argument that black families are born survivors and contain the seeds of their own rejuvenation. 
 The central idea behind "Climbing Jacob's Ladder" is explained in a perceptive foreword by Paula Giddings, an author and a visiting professor in the black studies department at Princeton University. She notes that where a previous generation of scholars saw weakness in black families, the new generation of black sociologists sees resourcefulness and resilience. Historically, black families tried to remain intact through slavery; many slave couples had long marriages, and the majority maintained stable households. Ms. Giddings writes, "Indeed, much of African-American history has been shaped by the determination of black families to live their lives together."
Combining history and sociology, "Climbing Jacob's Ladder" (the title comes from the spiritual "We Are Climbing Jacob's Ladder") explores the entire black experience in this country. The book includes the evolution of families from their origins in Africa, through the slave trade, the period immediately after slavery, the migration to Northern cities and the present conditions of black Americans.
Professor Billingsley emphasizes that white families should not be the basis of comparison for black families to show similarities or differences. He says black-white comparisons distort the reality and complexity of black families and discourage government reform. And he deplores the pessimistic views in some of the writing of James Baldwin: that American society is too decadent and too racist to make an an equitable place for black citizens.
While the author admits that some readers will consider his views overly optimistic and reject his argument that black families are strong entities, he counters by citing these examples: "The resourceful black grandmother, the vital black church, the effective black school, the successful black business enterprise, the authentic black scholar, the hard-working, long-suffering black masses, the upwardly mobile sectors." He adds that "all hold important keys to the regeneration of our families, our communities and our society."
Professor Billingsley doesn't make a convincing case for the stability and adaptability of black families when he discusses such matters as single-parent families, runaway husbands and abandoned children. Whether the teen-age pregnancies and broken homes exist in black or white families, it isn't quite enough to rely mainly on the success stories of those who have overcome these problems.
The author is on more solid ground when he writes about the influence of the military in black achievement in uniform. Desegregation in the armed forces led to great benefits for many black families. Gen. Colin Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is held up as the symbol of a black who went to the top of the profession of arms and gained national status. Blacks occupy more management positions in the military than they do in business, education, journalism, government or any other significant sector of American society.
Because military service has been a strong path to advancement, Professor Billingsley sounds like a Congressman with a military base or contract in his district when he advises that "the impending demobilization and down-sizing of the military services, budget and installations in the aftermath of the cold war and the gulf war be accomplished without an unfair share of the burden being placed on African-Americans." He suggests that comparable civilian services, such as the Job Corps, can produce comparable results for low-income men and women.
Because Professor Billingsley is independent minded and breaks ranks with traditionalists about the sorrowful black experience in the past, "Climbing Jacob's Ladder" is worth reading. His main conclusion is hard to dispute: economic viability and social status lead to stable patterns of family life.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Billingsley(Simon & Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CLIMBING JACOB'S LADDER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; BLACKS (IN US); FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); FAMILY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SLAVERY (89%); WRITERS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); HISTORY (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); MARRIAGE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (55%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; BILLINGSLEY, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



264 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion;
In Milan, Comfort and Flourishes for Fall

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MILAN, Italy, March 9

 BODY:
Dressing for a worldwide recession elicited two divergent responses from Italian designers as the fall fashion showings reached their midpoint. On the one hand, there was the escapism of revivals from the distant past, including the jackets of English dandies. On the other, there was the realism of classic dressing, emphasizing clothes that can last more than one season.
In the realism camp, there is a widespread revival of knitted clothes, long an Italian specialty. The knits include oversize bulky sweaters and long, skinny skirts. Both are youthful, durable and, when they are made in cashmere, luxurious. 
 Giorgio Armani managed to straddle both camps. The emphasis in his Emporio Armani collection is on reasonably classic, tailored pants suits. This collection, less expensive than his top line, usually focuses on more casual styles. This time, there is a plethora of herringbone patterns, checks and plaids, which add to the traditional formality.
Of course, there are fresh touches -- this is, after all, a designer collection. Some pants have buttons near the bottom to allow adjustment of the width; some have Zouave-like fullness. And a few jackets are as long as coats, stopping somewhere between the fingertips and the knees. The audience applauded the longer styles.
But as the collection moved along, touching on raincoats and patterned sweaters, a new, whimsical note developed. Armani began sending in the clowns. A red-silk clown suit, with billowing edges and ruffles around the neck, was a delicious novelty.
Why the clowns? Armani was perfectly willing to explain after his show. Clowns and circuses represent a universal childhood dream, and a woman can have fun at night dressing up in clothes that suggest that dream, he said. There was a more sober reason as well. On a visit to London, he said, he was impressed by the fact that people donned red clowns' noses to indicate their sympathy for people with AIDS. The red noses were akin to the red ribbons that were first worn in the United States and have since appeared in Europe. A serious undertone can be a positive association for fashion, he said.
A sideline of the collection was the appearance of skirts that fall in handkerchief points over trousers.
Mariuccia Mandelli, of Krizia, stayed with the reality course in fashion and showed one of her best collections since her first in Florence, almost 30 years ago. Knits have always been her strong point, especially sweaters, usually decorated with a single animal each season. This time, leopards, squirrels, monkeys and parakeets cavort in unlikely groupings on the front of her pullovers. But she showed more than sweaters. Sleeves flaring from elbow to wrist give a medieval cast to long, narrow, knitted dresses. A long torso dress with a full-tiered skirt is gently romantic.
Black velvet bands and borders give crispness to jackets worn with pants or transparent lace skirts. Flaring pants and combinations of leather and tweed give freshness to suits. There are seasonal allusions in the semi-transparent wool skirts worn with long jackets, the relaxed cut of leather pants gathered at the waistline, and the somber black-and-gray prison stripes on suits and dresses.
Few designers here would have had the confidence to send a model down the runway wearing a gray flannel overcoat, a matching double-breasted jacket, pants and sweater. No hoopla -- just elegant, subdued fabric and cut. An outfit like this needs no explanation -- it works.
Salvatore Ferragamo's ready-to-wear is constantly improving. Besides his ribbed cashmere coats, jackets and sweaters, he showed a neat collection of soft blouses with ripples of ruffles down the front that accent tights, pants and long, slim skirts. Some blouses are pleated, others have ties wide enough to toss over the shoulders.
Shearling coats with long-hair fur on the inside are a cozy cover-up for the cashmere sweaters. So are fringed blanket coats and sunny-colored suede jackets.
While Ferragamo's collection adopted popular themes of the season, it gave them a look of class.
Laura Biagiotti has long been known as Italy's queen of cashmere. She surpassed herself with her knitted clothes this season. Jumpsuits, dresses and vests augment her usual collection of sweaters. The cashmeres are knitted in fanciful patterns with a new complexity that enhances the three-dimensional effect. Sweaters tucked into the small waistline of flaring long skirts look especially attractive. So do dresses with panels inserted in deeper shades at the sides, to give a slimming effect. Cashmere camisoles with laced fronts suggesting corset tops are adorable.
When she ventured into more complex styles with, say, crushed ribbons appliqued on full taffeta skirts, the results were less impressive. Biagiotti is planning to open three shops in China, where much of her cashmere yarn comes from.
Grunge dressing has hit Milan. Take the first series of styles paraded down the Byblos runway. Black leather jackets topped flower-print dresses, which opened to show black leather shorts underneath. Knitted stocking caps were tied at the top of the head and flopped to the shoulders. Rubber-soled hiking boots gave feet a clunky look.
Long, wispy, partially braided hair kept the anti-establishment mood alive throughout. The dandy jackets paired with shorts, the ribbed cashmere sweaters and long skirts, and the glistening black-lace evening suits and dresses are all emerging as signs of the fall season.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fancy stitching adds dimension to a Laura Biagiotti cashmere sweater; A subdued gray flannel overcoat and pants suit, without decoration, by Mariuccia Mandelli for Krizia; A ruffled blouse softens gray pants and jacket, by Salvatore Ferragamo; The grunge look, in a black leather jacket, fringed printed skirt and clunky boots by Byblos; The ringmaster suit, with billowing pants, is part of a circus theme that enlivens the collection at Emporio Armani. (Photographs by Vittoriano Rastelli for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: BYBLOS (MILAN)

ORGANIZATION: BYBLOS (MILAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MILAN (ITALY) ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; REVIEWS FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); 

PERSON: FERRAGAMO, SALVATORE; MANDELLI, MARIUCCIA; ARMANI, GIORGIO; BIAGIOTTI, LAURA; MORRIS, BERNADINE GIORGIO ARMANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



265 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: The Perfect Gift for Mr. Yeltsin

 BODY:
That long-running Russian cliffhanger, the Perils of Boris Yeltsin, resumes in Moscow today. Once again the anti-Communist hero, President Yeltsin, is fighting for political survival against a hostile, holdover Congress of People's Deputies, elected in the waning days of the old Soviet Union and packed with former Communist apparatchiks.
Despite the trappings of melodrama, extremely serious issues are at stake. President Yeltsin claims that his own political future and the future of reform are one and the same. Congressional leaders insist that they represent a more grass-roots version of reform and that Mr. Yeltsin's real aim is personal dictatorship. Mr. Yeltsin's authoritarian tendencies are undeniable. But his version of the present political stakes is far closer to the mark. 
 Washington would be foolish to get itself enmeshed in the fine details of Moscow political maneuvering. But that shouldn't preclude helping a friendly government build public support with a timely, targeted infusion of foreign aid.
The immediate quarrel between President Yeltsin and his congressional opponents is constitutional. Despite all the political upheavals in Russia since the failed hard-line coup of August 1991, the old, Soviet-era Constitution remains officially in force. The Constitution gives Congress, not the President, ultimate authority. Congress has used that power to purge reform ministers and to encourage the central bank to print excess rubles, fueling disastrous hyperinflation.
Mr. Yeltsin argues that a reallocation of authority is now imperative. But congressional leaders oppose his request to legislate a new power-sharing formula, leading Mr. Yeltsin to threaten unspecified "radical action" to resolve the crisis. That could include going ahead with a scheduled constitutional referendum, set to take place right after the Clinton-Yeltsin summit meeting on April 3 and 4 in Vancouver, British Columbia.
President Clinton responded with an appropriate sense of urgency yesterday when he and President Francois Mitterrand of France called for an emergency meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized democracies to speed aid to Russia. But that approach depends on convincing Japan and other reluctant participants. Meanwhile Washington can move on its own to put together a fast-flowing bilateral package of several hundred million dollars aimed at immediate political trouble spots.
For example, the U.S. could help fund an unemployment insurance program to soften the social impact of bankruptcies. It could help with job retraining for demobilized military personnel. Or it could fund a rural credit scheme to help small farmers adjust to market conditions.
With the overall future of reform still uncertain, some of this new aid might be offset by continued capital flight. That's why it still makes sense to link long-term multilateral aid packages to specific progress in economic reform. But the positive signals that Washington could send with a quick, politically targeted program are amply worth the financial risk.
Successful Russian reform would mean a major shift of resources from military to civilian use and would make it far less likely that Moscow would return to foreign policy adventurism. That could save U.S. taxpayers at least $100 billion a year in lower defense spending. Advancing one-half of 1 percent of that amount now to help keep reform afloat seems an eminently prudent bet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (69%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); REFERENDUMS (67%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (67%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



266 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane Bill Threatens San Juan

BYLINE: By Rafael Hernandez Colon; Rafael Hernandez Colon was Governor of Puerto Rico from 1972 to 1976 and from 1985 to 1992.

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico

 BODY:
Puerto Ricans are distressed by a provision of President Clinton's generally fair economic reform plan. Though we occupy the bottom rung of the income ladder in the United States, one facet of the plan would amount to a requiem for Operation Bootstrap, which has elevated the island's standard of living.
Because of proposed changes in tax laws, the 3.5 million Puerto Ricans would be deprived of their principal legal instrument for economic development. The result would be stagnation, reduced productivity, lower wages, lower-quality jobs -- in short, a drastic reduction in our living standard, and dislocation. 
 Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code authorizes a tax credit to promote corporate investment in underdeveloped U.S. commonwealths and territories. But President Clinton, attacking subsidies which reward companies that ship jobs overseas, wants to eliminate the credit, which exempts from taxes the income earned by U.S. corporations in Puerto Rico; he would replace it with a 65 percent exemption on wages paid to corporate employees.
Without Section 936's annual exemption, currently worth $3 billion, industrial development and the rise in Puerto Ricans' incomes would have been impossible. Textile and pharmaceutical companies are the main beneficiaries; together they account for more than a third of the in-plant jobs in the industrial sector. Currently, Section 936 companies provide up to $600 million in tax revenues to the commonwealth.
The jobs fostered by the tax benefit and the policies of the fiscally autonomous commonwealth government have steadily raised Puerto Ricans' per capita income to $6,360 from the $296 it was four decades ago. Yet it still lags far behind the $19,796 in the 50 states.
The Treasury has questioned the cost-effectiveness of Section 936, saying that in 1989 American taxpayers laid out $66,081 for every job pharmaceutical companies created in Puerto Rico. That sum is a mirage because it assumes that plants would remain on the island or elsewhere in the U.S. -- as if there were no other options.
Studies by KPMG Peat Marwick and Price Waterhouse show that repeal would put an immediate halt to new investment and produce a gradual exodus of companies that came to Puerto Rico because of Section 936.
We would lose, directly and indirectly, about 164,000 jobs -- about 17 percent of the island's jobs. Our unemployment rate (never less than twice the mainland's and at times four times as high) would shoot from today's 16 percent to at least 33 percent. We would lose 40 percent of our bank deposits.
Puerto Rico is no more overseas than Hawaii. The Section 936 jobs are occupied by U.S. citizens for whose well-being Washington carries economic responsibility. The alternative is increased spending for social programs, loss of work and harsh dislocations through further migration to the mainland.
Puerto Rico would not be able to compete in a North American Free Trade Agreement common market for investments or market share with Mexico, which sets its own economic policies.
Repeal would contradict the whole thrust of the President's economic policy. Surely he does not intend to inflict hardship on the island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (66%); 

COMPANY: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US) KPMG LLP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; UNITED STATES PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (66%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LABOR TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); TRENDS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HERNANDEZ COLON, RAFAEL BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



267 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Overstates Trade Deficit With China;
Single in Beijing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your Feb. 17 article on the Westport Unitarian Singles Group, a Connecticut singles club with 2,000 members: "This group just couldn't exist in Idaho or many other places," you quote one club member as saying. He hasn't been to Beijing. 
 At the Beijing Weekend Club he would feel right at home with more than 300 women and men (26 to 75 years old), who have packed the club since April 1991.
On a recent trip to China researching gender and organizational change, I accompanied Dr. Wang Xingjuan, its founder, to the club one snowy November evening last fall. I danced, ate sunflower seeds, sang along in the kereoke (video) room and listened to tales of lost loves and romantic desires from widows, divorcees and the never-married.
The economic front is not the only area in which China is experiencing reform. The current era, which is known as "market economy with socialist tendencies," might better be known as a market economy with social tendencies. Maybe the Chinese-American balance of trade could be evened up if the two clubs exchange mailing lists!
 
VIRGINIA CORNUE
New Brunswick, N.J., Feb. 19, 1993
The writer, adjunct professor of women's studies at Montclair State College, is a graduate student in anthropology at Rutgers University.
 
<ILS>Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA; HONG KONG CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; GOLD COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: TURGEON, LYNN MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



268 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Overstates Trade Deficit With China

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Stirring Giant," your two-part series on China's awakening economy (front page, Feb. 14 and 15), emphasizes the growth of the United States trade deficit with China to $18.2 billion in 1992, the second largest United States import surplus after Japan. 
 The Clinton Administration should know that Western claims are the opposite of statistics from China. According to a recent Central Intelligence Agency publication, Chinese statistics show a small import surplus from the United States in 1991.
The difference is apparently caused in large part by the inclusion in United States statistics of Hong Kong export surpluses of transshipped mainland goods. Since Hong Kong will revert to China in 1997, United States statisticians are anticipating by about five years.
Another possible explanation of the discrepancy between United States and Chinese claims is the handling of Chinese gold imports, which have risen significantly. United States policy on gold has for decades been aimed at reducing the worldwide significance of gold, since it was a principal export of both the former Soviet Union and South Africa, neither of which was considered particularly friendly.
As a result, United States gold stocks in Fort Knox for the last two decades have been valued at approximately 42 dollars per ounce, about 10 percent of world market prices for gold. This is in contrast to France, where gold reserves are valued at world market prices.
Chinese trade policy, however, is still highly influenced by Maoist ideology, directed toward achieving "balanced equivalents" or lack of significant export or import surpluses with trading partners. This bias showed up in 1972, when Chou Enlai announced that the Chinese, in contrast to other Asian countries occupied by Japanese troops in the 1930's and 40's, would renounce any claims to Japanese reparations since this would presumably mean large Chinese import surpluses from Japan.
Reluctance to run import surpluses still shows up in the "subversiveness" of Chinese dissidents pressing for Japanese reparations. In 1989, according to the Voice of America, the leader of this grass-roots movement, which has collected 35,000 signatures, was placed under house arrest.
In lectures I gave in Beijing last September, I deplored the persistence of the balanced equivalents position and said that this was the golden moment to press Chinese claims. This position was received with enigmatic smiles from my audiences. I would also assume that Japanese businessmen, who are suffering from the worldwide recession, would be pleased should the Japanese Government recognize its moral responsibilities to pay reparations to China.
It is the dynamism of the greater China economy, including Taiwan and Hong Kong, in contrast to the worldwide recession affecting South Korea, Japan and all of Europe, including the former Soviet Union, that has stimulated interest in the Chinese locomotive.
 
LYNN TURGEON
Hempstead, L.I., Feb. 24, 1993
The writer retired as professor of economics at Hofstra University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA; HONG KONG CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; GOLD GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HOUSE ARREST (50%); 

PERSON: TURGEON, LYNN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



269 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: New York Hit By Increases In Migration

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
About twice as many people moved out of New York as moved in from other states during the late 1980's, according to a new census analysis of a broad population shift over the decade, but New York appeared to have stanched the exodus, compared with the late 1970's.
In a study that gives more details about a trend described in earlier reports, the Census Bureau put New York near the top of the list of areas that lost more residents than they gained from other states. The list was led by California. But in both states, immigration from other countries was significant. 
 According to the bureau, twice as many New Yorkers who left moved to New Jersey as to California. And three times as many moved to Florida.
New York expatriates accounted for 1 in 6 of the 2 million people who moved to Florida from other states between 1985 and 1990 -- a diverse exodus that included job-seekers who found work in booming Orlando and former Gov. Hugh L. Carey, who found a tax haven in Boca Raton when the New York-based conglomerate for which he worked shifted its headquarters there.
 
An Influx of Foreigners
 An influx of foreigners may have spared both New York and California possible population losses. But the shift of 1.8 million Californians to other states signaled a turnabout in the state's reputation as a magnet for migration. Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Virginia, Washington, Arizona and Nevada showed a larger net gain of people from other states during the second half of the decade than California did.
The report also said that more people had left New Jersey for other states than the number who moved in but that an infusion of foreigners also gave the state a net gain in migration. The pattern in Connecticut was similar. For demographers, population growth can be one measure of a region's economic vigor and of confidence in its future. Measured against trends in other states, the changes also determine the size of a state's Congressional delegation and the amount of money a state collects from Washington under a wide variety of Government programs based on population figures.
Changing regional demand for jobs is often cited by people and companies as a chief motivation for moving, and the uneven onset of the recession profoundly shaped migration patterns during the late 1980's. Other variables influence mobility, too, and as the population ages, they affect where people retire and how many of them return to rejoin their children or other relatives when they can no longer care for themselves or require more sophisticated medical treatment.
 
Oversaturated Neighbors
 Some of the biggest gainers, like Georgia and Nevada, were the beneficiaries of spillover from their seemingly oversaturated neighbors, Florida and California.
The migration figures released yesterday were not defined by income, race, ethnicity or age. But demographers say raw numbers -- the move of 28,000 New Yorkers to South Carolina or of 12,000 Illinois residents to Alabama -- hint at the reversal of one decadeslong trend: blacks who migrated north are returning to the South.
Kristin Hansen, the Census Bureau demographer who compiled the figures, said their significance generally lies in the details rather than in the broader new trends. Still, she said, the surge in Asian and Hispanic immigrants that took place in the decade, the sharp decline in the pace of California's growth and a shrinking of the total migration from New York were noteworthy.
 
Moving to Other States
 Between 1975 and 1980, about 1.7 million New Yorkers moved to another state, including 197,000 to New Jersey, 94,000 to Pennsylvania, 77,000 to Connecticut, 364,000 to Florida and 180,000 to California.
Between 1985 and 1990, the departures slowed slightly, with more than 1.5 million New Yorkers moving to another state. Over the same period, nearly as many people moved into New York from abroad as from another state, vastly reducing the losses in net migration.
In its own analysis, the New York City Planning Department found a marked reversal in migration between New York and Texas over a decade. During the late 1970's, Texas recorded a net gain of 65,000 New Yorkers. In the late 1980's, when the energy bust struck Texas, New York reported a net gain of nearly 3,000 Texans.
 
Shifting Patterns
 Joseph Salvo of the City Planning Department's population division said that New York State lost fewer people to California and Florida in the late 1980's but that the net loss to New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia increased.
During the second half of the decade, New York attracted 96,000 people from New Jersey, 64,000 people each from California and from Florida, 61,000 from Pennsylvania, 50,000 from Massachusetts, 42,000 from Texas, 42,000 from Puerto Rico and 40,000 from Connecticut.
At the same time, 361,000 New Yorkers moved to Florida, 219,000 to New Jersey, 125,000 to California, 102,000 to Pennsylvania, 77,000 to Connecticut, 68,000 to Virginia, 63,000 to North Carolina, 42,000 to Maryland, 40,000 to Georgia and 39,000 to Texas.
North Dakota was the destination for the smallest contingent of New Yorkers who left the state -- 621. Twice that number of North Dakotans moved to New York.
 
Questions on Census Form
 The statistics released yesterday are drawn from questions on the 1990 census form in which Americans were asked where they lived five years before and where they were born.
Their responses showed that among the 230 million Americans over the age of 4 in 1990, nearly half had lived in a different house only five years earlier. Among those who moved, though, only 1 in 5 left for another state.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about a 1990 census report on the number of people who moved to other states referred incorrectly to the effect of a population shift on California. California lost more residents to other states than New York did over the last decade, but it still attracted more new residents than it lost.

GRAPHIC: Table: "On the Move: Where People Are Going" shows migration figures for all fifty states between 1985 and 1990. (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS CENSUS (91%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993



270 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Overstates Trade Deficit With China

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Stirring Giant," your two-part series on China's awakening economy (front page, Feb. 14 and 15), emphasizes the growth of the United States trade deficit with China to $18.2 billion in 1992, the second largest United States import surplus after Japan. 
 The Clinton Administration should know that Western claims are the opposite of statistics from China. According to a recent Central Intelligence Agency publication, Chinese statistics show a small import surplus from the United States in 1991.
The difference is apparently caused in large part by the inclusion in United States statistics of Hong Kong export surpluses of transshipped mainland goods. Since Hong Kong will revert to China in 1997, United States statisticians are anticipating by about five years.
Another possible explanation of the discrepancy between United States and Chinese claims is the handling of Chinese gold imports, which have risen significantly. United States policy on gold has for decades been aimed at reducing the worldwide significance of gold, since it was a principal export of both the former Soviet Union and South Africa, neither of which was considered particularly friendly.
As a result, United States gold stocks in Fort Knox for the last two decades have been valued at approximately 42 dollars per ounce, about 10 percent of world market prices for gold. This is in contrast to France, where gold reserves are valued at world market prices.
Chinese trade policy, however, is still highly influenced by Maoist ideology, directed toward achieving "balanced equivalents" or lack of significant export or import surpluses with trading partners. This bias showed up in 1972, when Chou Enlai announced that the Chinese, in contrast to other Asian countries occupied by Japanese troops in the 1930's and 40's, would renounce any claims to Japanese reparations since this would presumably mean large Chinese import surpluses from Japan.
Reluctance to run import surpluses still shows up in the "subversiveness" of Chinese dissidents pressing for Japanese reparations. In 1989, according to the Voice of America, the leader of this grass-roots movement, which has collected 35,000 signatures, was placed under house arrest.
In lectures I gave in Beijing last September, I deplored the persistence of the balanced equivalents position and said that this was the golden moment to press Chinese claims. This position was received with enigmatic smiles from my audiences. I would also assume that Japanese businessmen, who are suffering from the worldwide recession, would be pleased should the Japanese Government recognize its moral responsibilities to pay reparations to China.
It is the dynamism of the greater China economy, including Taiwan and Hong Kong, in contrast to the worldwide recession affecting South Korea, Japan and all of Europe, including the former Soviet Union, that has stimulated interest in the Chinese locomotive.
 
LYNN TURGEON
Hempstead, L.I., Feb. 24, 1993
The writer retired as professor of economics at Hofstra University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA; HONG KONG CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; GOLD GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HOUSE ARREST (50%); 

PERSON: TURGEON, LYNN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



271 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
U.S. SEEKS NATO BOSNIA FORCE
The U.S. is urging allies to prepare an international force that would be sent the Bosnia immediately after a peace settlement there, but planning is being hampered by a dispute between the U.S. and France over who would command it. A1
 
The U.N. military chief in Bosnia is headed for besieged enclave. A16 

Bosnia's President delayed his return to talks in New York. A17
 
SHOULD YELTSIN BE U.S. FOCUS?
News analysis: The Administration's campaign to help Boris Yeltsin comes as his political future is again precarious and he is engaged once again in the trenches with a hostile Russian Congress. A1
 
Boris Yeltsin won a crucial vote in the Russian Congress. A14
 
EGYPT KILLS 21 MILITANTS
Egyptian security forces killed 21 people and wounded two dozen in nine raids in Cairo and Aswan against Islamic militants seeking to overthrow the Government. A1
 
STRICT ABORTION LAW IN POLAND
The Polish Government gazette will soon publish the latest laws approved by Parliament. Two weeks later Poland will have the most restrictive law on abortion of any country in Eastern Europe. A3
 
PALESTINIANS REJECT INVITATION
Palestinian leaders rejected an invitation to a new round of Middle East peace talks, citing Israel's deportation of Muslim fundamentalists, but did not rule out ultimately rejoining the negotiations. A8
 
LIBERIAN REBELS ON THE RUN
After three years of warfare in Liberia, the rebel leader Charles Taylor's military position is deteriorating rapidly, reports from West Africa and U.S. officials say. A10
 
BRITISH PREMIER UNDER SIEGE
The British Prime Minister's grip on government has slipped, strained by a growing rebellion within his party over Europe and deepening public dismay over his failure to revive the country's moribund economy. A15
 
DOUBT ON ITALY'S FUTURE
News Analysis: The bribery and corruption scandal enveloping Italy has struck both the public and private sectors, undermining both and casting doubt on the nation's future. A6
 
GAINS AGAINST BASQUE REBELS
A string of arrests of leading guerrillas in France has stirred cautious optimism in Spain that the end of the Basque terrorist movement may finally be in sight. A5
 
The former chief of the East German secret police is on trial. A4
 
President Suharto was re-elected to a sixth five-year term. A13
 
Beijing is going all out to be host of the Olympics in 2000. A12
 
National A18-21, B10-13
 
JUDGE RULES ON HEALTH PANEL
A Federal judge ruled that Hillary Rodham Clinton's health panel must announce its meetings and open some to the public, but can meet privately when formulating recommendations. A1
 
A committee approved of Janet Reno as Attorney General. A21
 
Democrats won a first round for Clinton's deficit plans. A20
 
Aspin could be on a collision course with the Joint Chiefs. A20
 
Clinton plans an effort to cushion the affects of base closings. A20
 
ABORTION DOCTOR IS KILLED
An anti-abortion demonstrator shot and killed a doctor during a protest outside his clinic, then surrendered, the police said. A1
 
NEGOTIATING WITH A 'MESSIAH'
Like a game of three-dimensional chess, conversations between Federal agents and the leader of the cult in Waco veer from haggles over milk to Biblical discourses. After 11 days, the agents have no idea what he wants. A1
 
KING ADMITS LYING
Rodney G. King conceded that he had lied about his beating and that he was not really sure whether the officers who beat him had used racial epithets or threatened to kill him, as he had testified. A18
 
The retrial of a Miami police officer is moved again. A18
 
N.A.A.C.P. LOOKS AT JACKSON
As the N.A.A.C.P., searches for a new executive director, the possibility of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's getting the job is a hot topic at the association. A18
 
HOUSING AGENCY UNDER FIRE
Four years after HUD became a symbol of ineptitude and graft, a succession of reports has warned that another scandal "is a distinct possibility." A21
 
The chief of the Federal Centers for Disease Control quits. B12
 
Astronomers clock a star moving faster than any ever seen. B13
 
New evidence that opening plugged arteries with balloons works. B13
 
Debunking an AIDS myth about recreational drug use. B13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
ANOTHER ARREST IN BOMBING
A chemical engineer of Palestinian descent, who had studied the principles of explosives, was arrested and charged yesterday with aiding in the World Trade Center bombing. A1
 
TRACING THE MONEY TRAIL
Federal investigators say they believe that money used to finance the bombing of the World Trade Center was transferred in recent months from Europe to a New Jersey bank account used by the two suspects now under arrest. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-13
 
Designed with tongue in chic. C1
At home with Michael Douglas. C1
Breast-feeding strategies for busy mothers. C1
Shopping for a dictionary? C2
Currents C3
Review/Fashion: In Milan, a costume party. C6
Review/Fashion: Sexy Austerity from Jil Sander. C6
Parent & Child C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-24
 
Italian cinema's everyman. C15
For Rolf Hochhuth, a new play, a new furor. C15
Arts grants for New York City groups. C20
Music: Gang of Four returns. C15
Dance: Premiere of Merce Cunningham's "Enter." C15
Word and Image: Home Video C18
 
Sports B14-19
 
Baseball: Meet the new Bonilla. B15
Abbott hopes for long-term stay. B19
Basketball: Much to prove in Big East. B15
Nets defeat Clippers. B18
Close-game drills for Knicks. B18
Column: Anderson on Manhattan College. B15
Football: Giants pool for free agents. B15
Hockey: Rangers out of sick bay. B19
Islanders lose to Canadiens. B14
 
Obituaries D23
 
Andrea Boroff Eagan, a writer and women's advocate.
Bob Crosby, swing band leader.
Don Barksdale, one of the first blacks to play in the N.B.A.
Max A. Zorn; developed a theory that changed math.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
The Republicans strike back.
More Twin Tower mysteries.
Bungee jumping at the U.N.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Communostalgia.
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Where's Bill?
 
Garrison Keillor: Notes on a new and improved era.
 
Linda Aiken and Claire Fagin: More nurses, better medicine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); POLAND (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); SPAIN (92%); LIBERIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ITALY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); POLAND (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); SPAIN (92%); LIBERIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ITALY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); APPROVALS (72%); RELIGION (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); ABORTION (67%); SCANDALS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); JUDGES (64%); BRIBERY (62%); DEPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



272 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Aid to Russia: Should Yeltsin Be the Focus?

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 10

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's energetic new campaign to help Boris N. Yeltsin comes at a time when the Russian President's political future is again precarious and he is engaged once again in the trenches with a hostile Congress.
And once again, the instinct of the more democratic, prosperous West to protect the tender shoots of freedom in Russia has run up against difficult questions: Can Western aid really help Russia until it sorts out its political and economic mess? What sort of aid does Russia need? Is Mr. Yeltsin really on the ropes? Should the West be concentrating so hard on Mr. Yeltsin -- or on Russia? 
 President Clinton has made abundantly clear in recent days that he wants urgent and visible aid for Russia and for Mr. Yeltsin. He has scheduled a summit meeting with the Russian leader in Vancouver, British Columbia, on April 3 and 4, and he has declared that the major industrial democracies must get together soon to formulate a strategy of assistance.
 
Not a Clear-Cut Choice
 However well it might fit Mr. Clinton's plan, Russia's political crisis does not lend itself to a struggle between a "reformist" President and a "reactionary" Congress, in which victory by one or the other would necessarily bring either unhindered reform or renewed dictatorship -- or in which the United States or the West can swing the outcome through a quick infusion or aid or support.
However vicious and real it may be, the current Congress is likely to be only one of many convulsions of a system in the process of profound and bewildering transformation.
The process is as complex as Russia is vast. Even if the Congress was entirely behind Mr. Yeltsin, political and economic reform would still have to constantly struggle against inherent inertia, against local and regional ambitions, against corruption, organized crime and entrenched bureaucrats and, above all, against a mind-set alien to democracy and a free market.
That does not mean that Mr. Yeltsin is dispensable. As the one truly democratically elected official in Russia and as a stalwart champion of reform, he is both a powerful bulwark and a symbol of Russia's potential. At the current session of the Congress, proposals have already been made to reduce Mr. Yeltsin's powers and to transfer control over the Government to the Congress.
The conservative Parliament, under its ambitious chairman, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, would then use its powers to slow or reverse economic reforms.
 
Yeltsin Welcomes Support
 Mr. Yeltsin, for his part, has welcomed the support. On his way to the Congress today, he told reporters: "All those who sympathize with us morally and materially unquestionably give support to our reforms, and the U.S. president is helping us now very seriously in political terms by backing the policy of reforms and the Russian President."
Indeed, nobody would deny that a public demonstration of support is politically beneficial -- even if the national referendum that was to be held on April 11, for which the summit meeting was evidently timed, is canceled, as it is now likely to be.
Though few politicians believe Mr. Yeltsin can be toppled anytime soon, he is in political danger, and the current session of Congress is generally viewed as the least predictable to date, especially since the only item on its agenda is division of state powers.
After so many confrontations and crises, Russians no longer whoop with joy when some Western leader declares support or promises aid. For one thing, not much of that aid has materialized. For another, there has not been widespread hunger, unemployment, or social upheaval yet in Russia, despite the constant doomsday forecasts. For another, long gone is the naive early notion that an International Monetary Fund austerity program, a few billion in aid and a round of elections can transform Russia.
It is noteworthy that the Clinton Administration's discussion of aid has not received much publicity in Moscow, certainly nothing in comparison with the political maneuvering around the Congress. Only Izvestia has given the developments in Washington regular coverage.
It is not that Russians have become hostile to America, even though hard-line Communists and nationalists relentlessly assail Mr. Yeltsin and his Government for "selling out" to the West.
Political analysts say the authority of America remains high. "The American voice has a strong impact," said Otto Latsis, a commentator in Izvestia. "Some years ago it was seen as the voice of a potential foe, but now it's taken as the voice of a partner."
But much as Russians may admire America, most seem convinced that they are different, that their history and traditions do not make them suitable for an American-style democracy or market.
That has led even some of the most pro-Western of Russian leaders to urge Americans not to expect Russia to fall automatically in lockstep with the United States, either in its internal organization or in its foreign policies.
 
Targets Unclear
 Another question that has stymied would-be Western donors is where to target aid. Western experts now agree that whatever hunger or poverty Russia has is the result of disorganization, not shortages.
There are estimates that more than a billion dollars each month leaves Russia for Western bank accounts and investments, far more than any incoming aid, the result of a totally muddled system of banking, export controls and monetary policy. These are not figures that garner political support for aid.
Even where aid has a specific target, problems are enormous. On Tuesday, a United States Senate committee was told that bickering among republics with nuclear weapons and lingering superpower ambitions among Russians have enabled American officials to disburse only $25 million of $800 million allocated to help former Soviet states dismantle nuclear weapons.
And while the Clinton Administration debates new forms of aid, shipments of grain to Russia have been stopped because Moscow has not paid its bills.
But if Americans sit back and wait for Mr. Yeltsin to get his house in order, his lieutenants argue, it will be too late. The question is not whether aid is effective or useful, they say, but whether the West is ready to commit the sort that would make a difference -- say a long-term rescheduling of Russia's $80 billion debt and a place for Russia in the West's lucrative arms market in underdeveloped countries.
That was what Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev proposed in an interview last Saturday: "The time is ripe for a much more developed and far-reaching strategy of cooperation, including the rescheduling of debt for the long term, a place at the markets -- and as a minimum equal terms for competition by economic sectors of our industries, including such sensitive areas as conventional weapons."
That is a long cry from the sort of visible and quick assistance that most Western governments have focused on. But then one thing on which both sides would probably agree now, after so many fits and starts, is that Russia's transformation will not come cheap or easy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Congress of People's Deputies voted down a proposal yesterday that would have stripped President Boris N. Yeltsin of most of his powers. Mr. Yeltsin spoke to an aide during the session. Page A14. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (71%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CORRUPTION (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (62%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



273 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Is Seeking to Soften The Impact of Base Closings

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
Seeking to cushion the political fallout from a round of forthcoming base closings, President Clinton will embark on a public relations offensive this week to demonstrate his commitment to help workers affected by cuts in military spending.
On Thursday, Mr. Clinton plans to visit a Baltimore company that is converting much of its business from military to civilian items. There, he plans to propose spending $15 billion to $20 billion over the next five years to help the communities and workers who would be hit hardest by military cuts and to encourage military contractors to pursue new technologies. 
 Then, seeking to show support for the military, he will visit an aircraft carrier off Norfolk, Va., on Friday to meet with troops headed for the Mediterranean.
 
Clinton to Preside
 The White House also announced today that Mr. Clinton would convene a one-day conference to grapple with another politically explosive issue: the dispute over logging and the spotted owl in the Pacific Northwest.
The April 2 conference in Portland, Ore., will be the Administration's first attempt to resolve a long-running battle between those who depend on forests for a livelihood and those who want to preserve them.
The President will preside over the conference, modeled after the economic conference in Little Rock, Ark., last December, with Vice President Al Gore, the Secretaries of Interior, Agriculture and Labor and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency. He will stop in Portland on his way to meet President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia in Vancouver, British Columbia.
"Planning and good long-term management can help us protect jobs and the unique, old-growth forests that are as much a part of our national heritage as the Grand Canyon or Yosemite," Mr. Clinton said. "It is time to break the gridlock that has blocked action and bring all sides together to craft a balanced approach to the economic and environmental challenges we face."
In last year's election, Mr. Clinton won support in many timber communities in the Northwest after promising to convene a forest conference. But as with the economic conference, White House officials said they did not expect the meeting to resolve the dispute.
George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said the purpose of the session was for Mr. Clinton and others to "get a full understanding of the problem" and to "develop a comprehensive approach over the course of the next several months."
While environmental, labor and industry groups praised Mr. Clinton today for convening the conference, some also expressed concern about its possible outcome.
"Everybody's nervous about it because it's an unknown," said Brock Evans, a National Audubon Society vice president and one of many people briefed on the conference today by White House officials. "We're familiar with the Congressional arena, but no one knows how this is going to turn out."
White House officials have not worked out the details, such as whom to invite to testify at the public meeting or how it should be structured. Today, many in the White House were concentrating on a more pressing matter: a new round of proposed base closings.
Les Aspin, the Defense Secretary, is expected to announce his recommended closings on Friday.
Administration officials said they were packaging Mr. Clinton's relief effort to head off critics who might say he was not moving quickly enough to help those affected. Mr. Clinton has brought in Paul Begala, a principal consultant in the Presidential campaign, to help develop a political strategy to make the closings more palatable.
"The President has a deeply held belief that you have to have a way to bring along the people who otherwise would be out there in the wind, bearing the cost of change," said Bowman Cutter, a White House deputy for economic policy.
That is why, officials said, Mr. Clinton is using the Westinghouse Electronic Services in Baltimore as the backdrop for his announcement on Thursday. The plant manufactured navigation devices and sensors for the Air Force but is now developing that equipment for civilian purposes, such as detecting bursts of wind at airports that are dangerous to commercial airliners and for sensors that police departments can use to determine when an officer has fired a gun.
White House officials said they would ask Congress to spend $1.8 billion in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 on a package that would include aid for retraining workers and for communities most affected by the military cuts. Almost all of that money had been appropriated by Congress during the Bush Administration, but the Administration chose not to spend it.
Administration officials said about half the $15 billion to $20 billion in proposed spending in the next five years would go to help displaced workers, including supplementing their incomes and helping them find jobs, and to help communities establish retraining programs and to seek new industries.
The other half would be for development of new technology through financing of joint ventures among companies exploring new areas for military conversion, and grants to local governments and universities to develop such programs. About three-quarters of the money going to the development half of the program had already been proposed as part of Mr. Clinton's economic stimulus package.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (70%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); OREGON, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MILITARY PERSONNEL ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ASPIN, LES (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



274 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

SECOND SUSPECT IN TRADE CENTER BLAST
A chemical engineer of Palestinian descent was charged with aiding in the World Trade Center bombing. He became the second suspect directly linked to the blast that left at least five dead and more than 1,000 injured. A1.
 
FOCUS ON A SHARED BANK ACCOUNT
Investigators are focusing on about $8,000 that recently flowed through a New Jersey bank account shared by the two suspects. A1. 

TRAIL OF CLUES INCLUDED BUSINESS CARD
The initial suspect in the bombing and the second man arrested were linked by a growing series of clues, including a business card.. B6.
 
The bomb was apparently made with cheap, widely available chemicals. B6.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
3 ARE KILLED IN MANHATTAN
 The bodies of two women and a man were found bound, gagged and shot in the head in an apartment near the northwest corner of Central Park, the police said. The man's throat had also been slashed, they said. B3.
 
TRUMP IN ARREARS ON PROPERTY TAXES
Donald J. Trump owes New York City $4.4 million in property taxes on his land on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where he plans to build a huge $3 billion apartment complex, city records show. B3.
 
FATAL DISPUTE FINALLY GOES TO TRIAL
Nearly two years after a 26-year-old artist, Grady Alexis, died in a Greenwich Village confrontation, a 22-year-old man goes on trial. B3.
 
A dispute over a program to house homeless families erupted into a battle between the Dinkins administration and the City Council. B5.
 
New challenge to St. Patrick's Day parade. B4.
 
Comptroller Holtzman says the tracking of high school textbooks is inadequate. B2.
 
Con Edison wins a 5 per cent rate increase. B4.
 
REGION
 
NEW CHARGES IN BEERS CASE
When 10-year-old Katie Beers was living with her godmother two years ago, she was sexually molested at least twice by the godmother's husband, according to an indictment. B8.
 
NEW HAVEN YOUTH ACQUITTED IN SLAYING
After four hours of deliberation, a jury acquitted a New Haven teen-ager of murder in the 1991 killing of a Yale sophomore. B8.
 
THE NEW 4-H: HEAD, HEART, HAND, HELP!
The 4-H clubs in Cobleskill, N.Y., were out fund-raising last month, and their candy sales, barbecues and bowlathons took in more than $56,000 -- enough to save the clubs. B8.
 
A Transportation Committee chairman in Albany proposed a new transportation plan. B9.
 
Democratic senators criticize secrecy surrounding Legislature's budget. B9.
 
The Suffolk County District Attorney will stop using a BMW seized from a drug dealer. B8.
 
Chronicle B24

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Unemployment Claims" tracks number of people filing initial unemployment insurance claims in Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York since the beginning of 1991. (Source: Labor Department in each state)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); JURY TRIALS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); MURDER (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); VERDICTS (70%); ACQUITTAL (70%); CITIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (66%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (66%); PARADES & MARCHES (63%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); TEXTBOOKS (50%); FAMILY (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



275 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The Administration is drafting a trade policy covering Japan, China and Southeast Asia that would combine aid to American high-technology industries with talks to open Asian markets. [Page D1.]
Japan may be forced to begin Government programs to restore its electronics and computing industries. [D7.] 
 German steelworkers protested plant closings and job cuts as the European Community's steel crisis deepened. [D1.]
Italy's economic and political future appears to be threatened by a scandal that has enveloped its private and public sectors. [A6.]
The failure to turn Britain's economy around has weakened Prime Minister John Major's grip on the Government. [A15.]
 
The Economy
Three "teaching factories" give small manufacturers access to advanced technology and management expertise they could not otherwise afford. Fifteen more sites are planned. [D1.]
Lumber prices have jumped largely because of shortages caused by the closing of Federal forests, the industry says. [D1.]
Clinton proposals to spur lending to small businesses would massage the rules instead of providing a regulatory overhaul. [D2.]
The 12 Fed presidents were summoned to Congress, and the beige book showed that growth continued early this year. [D8.]
A judge ruled that Hillary Rodham Clinton's panel on health policy must announce its meetings and open its sessions. [A1.]
President Clinton's deficit plan advanced in the House, but there was Democratic discontent with the stimulus package. [A20.]
President Clinton will propose spending billions to encourage military contractors to pursue new technologies. [A20.]
Donald Trump has changed his mind on withholding $4.4 million in city taxes until he gets aid for his West Side project. [B3.]
 
Companies
Stock in ACX Technologies plunged after it said it was having trouble with a new process for making aluminum can sheets. [D4.]
Paramount Communications reported that its net income fell 95 percent in its first fiscal quarter. [D4.]
Top Detroit auto executives told a Senate panel the proposed energy tax would hurt their ability to compete with imports. [D4.]
A former Air Force secretary was given ethics clearance to become president and chief operating officer of Teledyne. [D4.]
Miller Brewing introduced a full-flavored ale not for the calorie-conscious crowd that made its Lite a hit. [D4.]
Honeywell will help a start-up company develop a flywheel device as a nonbattery source of power for electric cars. [D5.]
A new magazine for parents in their 30's and 40's will be started by the founder of Rolling Stone, Jann S. Wenner. [D6.]
 
Markets
The Dow set its third straight record, rising 6.22 points, as medical stocks gained. Broader market averages advanced. [D10.]
Treasury prices bounced around in a narrow range and ended lower. The yield on the 30-year bond rose to 6.75 percent. [D20.]
The dollar settled mixed and gold fell to its lowest price in about a year in New York. [D19.] Soybeans rose strongly. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Primerica was changing from a sleepy consumer-lending company into a highly profitable financial-services giant even before it disclosed plans to acquire Shearson. Market Place. [D1.]
The mild economic stimulus proposed by President Clinton appears to some to be an attempt to merely plant the Clinton flag on a Bush recovery. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
The incoming and outgoing chief executives of Saatchi & Saatchi talked about their past team efforts and independent futures while issuing Saatchi's financial results. Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT AUTO AUCTION (53%); ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ETHICS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); SCANDALS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (67%); STARTUPS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); AIR FORCES (64%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (64%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); BEER & ALE (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (53%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (52%); JUDGES (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); JANN WENNER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



276 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Senate Panel Summons 12 From the Fed

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
On the surface, they were called to talk about the economy, which they said was slowly improving. But there were other reasons why Congress, for the first time in decades, summoned the presidents of the Federal Reserve System's 12 regional banks to testify: several senators wanted to show them who was boss.
And on the same day, the Fed reported in its survey of economic conditions, the so-called beige book, that growth continued early this year, although New England and California remained weak. The report said that retail sales held up well after Christmas and that manufacturing continued to increase, with the strongest gains in household items and durable consumer goods. 
 But, the report said, banks were still making few commercial loans to allow small and medium-size businesses to expand. Today, the Clinton Administration introduced a package of technical measures to make credit more accessible to those businesses.
While the Federal Reserve's 12 starchy, dark-suited bankers squeezed uncomfortably together, the hearing before the Senate Banking Committee was cordial. Yet tensions were barely hidden.
 
Pointed Reminder Seen
 Fed-watchers said the central bankers had been called by the committee so they could be reminded that if they did not cooperate in pushing economic growth, Congress might move to reduce their power and the Federal Reserve's independence.
While several senators prodded them to do more to promote growth, the central bankers explained why they thought it was vital to keep inflation low. They also expressed optimism about the state of the economy, saying that growth should be moderately strong this year.
Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, accused Democrats of orchestrating the hearing to intimidate the Federal Reserve presidents into following Congress's wishes. "This is a coup d'etat on monetary policy," Mr. Mack said. "Exerting more Congressional rule over monetary policy would be a horrible mistake."
Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, contended that he did not understand objections about inviting the Fed presidents to testify. He is sponsoring a proposal that would strip the regional-bank chiefs of their votes on the Federal Reserve's main policy-setting group, the Open Market Committee.
Mr. Sarbanes, a Fed critic, was, for the most part, disarmingly polite today. "The Fed does have a responsibility to publicly account for its policies," he said. "That's not inconsistent with its independence."
 
Accountable to Whom?
 Some Democrats in Congress say the regional bank presidents are not sufficiently accountable because, unlike the seven governors of the Federal Reserve Board, they are not appointed by the President but chosen by business executives in their areas.
Several of the bankers took pains to show that they had not forgotten the public's desire for economic growth.
One of them, Robert P. Forrestal, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said, "I believe the Fed, like other policy institutions that act on behalf of society, must keep public preferences in mind when pursuing social goals.".
A few praised President Clinton's plan to cut the budget deficit and signaled that they would cooperate to promote growth. Robert D. McTeer Jr., head of the Dallas bank, said, "I am sure I speak for my colleagues as well as myself when I say that whatever the ultimate fiscal outcome, we will do our best to support it with a monetary policy that is in the broad national interest."
Translated, that means that if tax increases or other parts of the deficit-reduction plan retard growth, the Fed will try to keep rates low to offset the plan's negative effects.
The Fed's beige book said that in the New York region, discussions with 25 manufacturers showed that most expected moderate sales increases in the next six months, but felt that they could not significantly raise prices. More than half indicated that they planned to reduce investment this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RETAIL SALES (55%); COUPS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOHN P SARBANES (58%); CONNIE MACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



277 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: House Committee Clears Clinton Plan To Shrink the Deficit Over Five Years

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
President Clinton's plans to shrink the deficit cleared their first Congressional hurdle tonight when Democrats pushed his proposals through the House Budget Committee on a 26-to-17 party-line vote.
The Senate Budget Committee scheduled votes for Thursday on a similar measure calling for $502 billion in spending cuts and revenue increases over five years. 
 Under each plan the Federal deficit, which is now about $300 billion a year, would fall to below $200 billion annually by the end of Mr. Clinton's term. But exactly what the figure will be depends both on the state of the economy and the costs of whatever Congress and Mr. Clinton do about health care.
On a short-term budget matter, there were stirrings of Democratic discontent with the President's $16 billion spending package meant to stimulate the economy. Fifteen Democrats met with him at the White House on Tuesday night to urge him to scale it back. They reported he made no comment on their proposals.
In the House, fiscal conservatives like Representatives Charles W. Stenholm, Democrat of Texas, and Timothy J. Penny, Democrat of Minnesota, were seeking to reduce the package or find savings elsewhere to help pay for it. "I can't tell whether we'll be influential," Mr. Penny said.
 
Too Big or Too Small
 House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said at a news conference that Democrats were concerned about the package, both about whether it was too small or too big. But it was plain that they were more worried about the package's being too big. Democrats planned a caucus for Thursday to try to solidify support, since if Republicans remain solid in opposition, they cannot lose the votes of many more than 35 of their 255 members and pass the plan.
Before adopting its deficit plan, the House Budget Committee quickly rejected a Republican alternative that would have narrowed the deficit by a total of $429 billion over five years, without the tax increases the Democratic plan called for. The Republican plan would have cut Federal spending for Medicare, Medicaid and food and nutrition programs, among other items.
That proposal, offered by Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, was beaten, 27 to 15. Only Representative Rick A. Lazio, a freshman New York Republican, did not vote with his party. He joined 26 Democrats in voting no.
 
No Real Authority
 Much of the Senate debate and the House votes concerned spending details over which the Budget Committees have no real authority.
The committees were considering budget resolutions, the first Congressional step in the annual budget process. They establish the total amount of revenue that should be raised by taxes and set a limit on the total amount that can be spent for all programs that require annual appropriations. Similarly, they also set total levels for programs like Social Security, Medicare and farm price supports in which Government money is distributed according to formulas to everyone who meets eligibility requirements.
Despite all today's talk and votes about which programs should be cut where, the details of the resolutions are not binding. If the Congress decides later it would rather spend more on the space station and less on the staff of the Department of Veterans Affairs, it can.
Even so, the House votes presented an unaccustomed spectacle of Democratic resolve. Democrats who opposed projects like the space station or the superconducting supercollider in the past were sticking with Mr. Clinton today in supporting them.
 
Switching Positions
 When Republicans, defenders of the supercollider in the past, offered an amendment against it, Representative Mike Parker, Democrat of Mississippi, announced his vote on their amendment this way: "I hate it, but no."
As the Democrats stuck to their plan, Representative Alex McMillan, Republican of North Carolina, said, "I don't admire your vote, but I admire your discipline."
In both committees, Republicans ridiculed the Democratic proposals as vague and lacking in specifics. Senator Phil Gramm of Texas called it "the same old smoke-and-mirror phony document we've seen in the past."
In the House, Mr. Kasich quarreled with the lack of detail in the additional $63 billion of cuts committee Democrats came up with this week. "After weeks of saying, 'Show us the specifics,' you come in here and say you don't have to show us your specifics." he said "We show you ours and unfortunately you don't show us yours."
The Senate committee was debating a slightly different plan put forward by its chairman, Jim Sasser of Tennessee, to lower the budget deficit by a total of $502 billion over the next five years.
The Sasser plan closely follows the Clinton prescriptions for raising taxes and reducing spending. The plan would cut the deficit by $96 billion more than the Clinton package would over the five-year period, mainly by spending slightly less than Mr. Clinton wants in the next two years and by raising taxes slightly more over the next five years.
"There is absolutely no restructuring of the President's conceptual or philosophical approach," Mr. Sasser said.
In two days of meetings, the senators have taken no votes and have accomplished nothing except making political points. Senator Barbara Boxer, a freshman Democrat from California, watching the process firsthand for the first time wondered aloud, "What if there is someone watching this thing on TV?"
But with the senators eager to not to have their weekend getaway disrupted, they decided to stop debating and begin voting Thursday afternoon with a final committee vote scheduled for late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the House Budget Committee considered the President's plans to cut the budget deficit, Representative Christopher Shays, standing, conferred yesterday with Representative John R. Kasich. Speaking at right was Representative Jim Kolbe and at center was Representative Alex McMillan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON BUDGET; SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON BUDGET; SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MEDICAID (55%); NUTRITION (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN KASICH (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



278 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Giving Smaller Factories Big Ideas

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON, W. Va.

 BODY:
When Paul Carman first saw the big Cincinnati Milacron T-10 at the Byrd Institute here, he gazed straight into his own future. The computer-controlled milling machine could spit out intricately shaped metal parts in 12 minutes -- 15 times faster than his own shop. And he could use the $350,000 T-10 for only $30 to $35 a hour.
Mr. Carman's first visit to West Virginia's "teaching factory" was an eye-opener. A hands-on center that gives small manufacturers low-cost access to some of the most advanced technology and management expertise around, it is equipped with the computerized tools and instruments that can ignite productivity and sales but that most small companies simply cannot afford to test. 
 Until now.
With public and private financing, Byrd and its counterparts in St. Louis and Toledo, Ohio, are models for the new Clinton Administration economic initiative aimed at shoring up the nation's manufacturing base. The National Center for Manufacturing Sciences, the not-for-profit industry research group that oversees the three centers, plans to open 15 more teaching factories this year. And that number could grow to hundreds in the next few years if President Clinton fulfills the pledge in last month's economic message to "give small business access to all the technologies of our time."
 
A Practical Opportunity
 Allowing small companies to use high-technology production machinery to turn out their products is not all the teaching factories do, though that is what distinguishes them from other industrial aid programs. "We want people to come in here and operate the equipment," said David M. Porreca, director of Byrd, which opened in 1989 and was the first of the three centers. "We think hands-on is a good way to transfer technology."
In a partnership with a local university, Byrd also offers classes in modern quality control, like statistical process control and computer-aided design, at its high-tech headquarters in an old bank building here. It also sends instructors into factories to teach first-line supervisors -- often newly promoted -- how to manage and motivate workers.
Each of the three teaching factories is tailored to its region. The one here aims to help the mostly small machine shops and mining equipment manufacturers prevalent in the area, while the one in St. Louis is geared to assist suppliers to the big aircraft and automobile manufacturers there. The Toledo center focuses on the tool and die industry.
For Mr. Carman, the Byrd center was a fine solution to a serious problem. He was eager to get experience using machines like the T-10, he said, because the manually operated lathes and mills in his eight-person shop in Ashland, Ky., are obsolete. He knows computer controls are the wave of the future. "We want to move in that direction," he said, "but we have to get our feet wet first."
 
 
Race for Greater Productivity
 The teaching factories are among several models being tested to improve the performance of small manufacturers, which have fallen behind larger American companies and rivals in Japan and Germany in the race for greater productivity. Other approaches include the technology extension services operated by about a dozen industrial states and seven National Institute of Standards and Technology demonstration centers.
Last month, President Clinton pledged to expand the technology development efforts of the institute vastly, by spending $1.3 billion over four years for industry-Government research initiatives. This year the outlay for the demonstration centers is $17 million.
 
Big Military Component
 Much of Byrd's annual $4 million in financing now comes from the Defense Department, which fears that erosion of the nation's manufacturing capabilities will damage the ability to produce military hardware. So it is not surprising to hear Byrd described in military terms.
"We consider that we are at war, and our small companies are fighting with rocks and sticks," said Steve Ricketts, a vice president of N.C.M.S. The $200 million research organization, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., is financed by manufacturers, the Federal Government and philanthropists.
Mr. Ricketts said the teaching factories could help small companies improve their weaponry by providing easy access to advanced production methods. The segment of the military budget devoted to civilian research is not currently scheduled for cutbacks, but the Administration seems bent on transferring control of such programs to the Commerce Department.
Like the teaching hospitals they are modeled after, the teaching factories have the equivalent of operating rooms. At Byrd, one contains a high-tech manufacturing unit in which automated machine tools are linked by an oval conveyor belt and robots take the place of machinists.
The unit is connected to desks equipped with personal computers at which manufacturing workers and college students can learn to operate in an automated environment. The institute is affiliated with Marshall University and its community college, which provide courses in computer-aided design and manufacturing that students can test at Byrd.
 
Lower Productivity
 There is no question that small manufacturers need help. Companies with fewer than 500 employees are 25 percent less productive than larger ones because they lack advanced equipment and production techniques, according to an analysis of Census statistics by the Industrial Technology Institute, a not-for-profit research and consulting group based in Ann Arbor.
Although they are seldom directly involved in world trade, these 360,000 small companies supply basic bits and pieces to the big manufacturers that compete with foreign companies. Some parts Mr. Carman machined on the T-10, for example, went into mining equipment exported to Australia. The analysis by the I.T.I. found that 45 percent of the value added to raw materials by manufacturing in America comes from small companies.
For example, Jack Klim's D & E Industries, based in Huntington, forges shifter forks used in large truck transmissions assembled and sold by the Rockwell International Corporation. Forging is like a first approximation of hell. Workers use long tongs to place red-hot bars of steel into a two-story machine. They hammer the bars into shape with floor-shaking thuds, as flames from lubricating fluids shoot out and smoke and grit hang in the air.
As low-tech as the forming process is, the forks must meet high-tech standards. Because a transmission's smoothness depends on how close to specification the parts are, Rockwell insists that Mr. Klim document the accuracy of the forks' dimensions on statistical control charts. Those charts must be included with the shipments. Instructors at Byrd taught Mr. Klim's workers how to prepare the charts, both at headquarters and during visits to the plant.
 
'Set Ourselves Apart'
 "Rockwell can buy all across the world," Mr. Klim said. "We had to do something to set ourselves apart." Since he can now meet world standards for pricing, quality and delivery, Mr. Klim got the fork business and recently negotiated a three-year extension of his contract.
Rockwell benefits, too, cutting costs because Mr. Klim's parts are pre-checked and shipped directly to the assembly line. Fewer incoming parts inspectors are required.
Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, who is backing legislation to provide more assistance to smaller manufacturers, said Japan and Germany do far more for their industries than the United States. Japan, he said, spends $500 million annually on a network of 170 manufacturing support centers. Germany has its noted apprentice training programs and government-backed centers to speed the transfer of technology from laboratories to producers.
For Paul Carman, whose Kilbourne Machine Company in nearby Kentucky was established in 1902, the ability to do actual production runs on Byrd equipment justified sending his shop foreman here for training. Small shops like his do not have the luxury of sending workers to class to keep up with changing technology.
"It takes time and money to learn technology," said Mr. Porreca, Byrd's director. He said the institute priced the use of its equipment low enough so small companies could afford to explore the unknown.
Not all new technology involves machines, of course. Managers are recognizing that the order-barking style of factory management does not generate high quality and productivity. So they are looking for ways to train first-line supervisors in up-to-date people-handling methods.
Part of the problem is the way foremen are chosen. In sports, there is no guarantee that a star running back will make a good football coach. Similarly, there is no reason to assume that the best factory worker will make an effective supervisor.
But that is who is promoted, observed Dick Kirby, vice president of manufacturing for the Service Machine Company, a local manufacturer of electrical distribution equipment used with mining machinery. "You have an individual who has been working here for 10 or 15 years, and he's the most highly skilled in his area," he said. "So he's made a supervisor and crosses the line into management. Now he's responsible for scheduling, planning, regulatory compliance and motivating people -- things he's never been exposed to before."
Mr. Kirby turned to Byrd to help his supervisors learn the communications and motivational skills to keep his 150-employee plant humming. The 27-hour course is being taught at the plant at night, so all the supervisors can learn as a group.
Properly motivated workers are important to Service Machine. Because its products are used in coal mines, where one spark can cause a lethal explosion, the equipment must conform to rigid standards.
 
Help With New Line
 Chuck Nease, who owns Mountaineer Archery, a local manufacturer of compound bows for hunters and target shooters, said Byrd's computerized machinery let him develop a new line quickly and inexpensively. In his older bows, the centerpiece is made of magnesium cast in a die. The new one has a centerpiece made of aluminum machined on automated equipment at the institute.
The change has cut the lead time for producing a new bow to eight weeks from six months, and the cost of producing a new model is down, too. "We are talking about a $400 program compared to a $70,000 die," Mr. Nease said.
Back at his shop in Ashland, Paul Carman keeps thinking about the big Cincinnati Milicron T-10 he learned to operate at Byrd.
"With the present size of this business, it is hard to justify a $350,000 machine," he said. "But if I could get a long-term contract with a respectable company, I'd have one in here next week."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Brumfield, right, operating the Cincinnati Milacron T-10 computer-controlled milling machine at the Byrd Institute. At left, taking measurments, was Tim Klim, a manufacturing specialist at the center. (David Fattaleh for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333511 INDUSTRIAL MOLD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: BYRD INSTITUTE; NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES INC (69%); MI 2009 INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BYRD INSTITUTE; NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNTINGTON (WEST VA); ST LOUIS (MO); TOLEDO (OHIO) UNITED STATES (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RESEARCH; SMALL BUSINESS ; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); MINING EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); MACHINE SHOPS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); ENGINEERING SOFTWARE (67%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLUSHA, JOHN BILL CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



279 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Accord Signed for a Casino in New York State

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VERONA, N.Y., March 10

 BODY:
Negotiators for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the Oneida Indians have reached agreement on a compact that would allow the opening of New York State's first high-stakes gambling casino in a tiny rural community near the center of the state.
The compact must now be signed by Mr. Cuomo and the United States Secretary of the Interior before the Oneidas can open a new $10 million casino that is near completion on rolling farmland owned by the Indians adjacent to the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway about 30 miles east of Syracuse. 
 Mr. Cuomo has said he wants the Legislature's response to the agreement before he signs it. Some legislators said that is an attempt to shift responsibility for a decision that could spark opposition on and off Indian lands. The state is also negotiating a gambling compact with the 3,400 St. Regis Mohawk Indians near the Canadian border.
Both opponents and supporters of casino gambling say the Oneida compact could be the first step toward legalizing casino gambling elsewhere in the state, including in the Catskills and at Niagara Falls. Debate over the compact is likely to reflect those broader concerns.
 
Federal Law Governs
 But to a large extent, Mr. Cuomo's hands are tied. Though Mr. Cuomo has said he opposes casino gambling in New York State, he was required to negotiate the compact under a 1988 Federal law that allows Indians to have profit-making gambling operations on their land. Under that law Indians can run the same games of chance the state allows charities to run. Las Vegas nights are commonly run throughout the state by charities.
At least 52 tribes in 17 states have opened 100 casinos and large-scale bingo halls since the Federal law was passed. In 1992, the 200-member Mashantucket Pequots in Connecticut opened a casino, a runaway success that has already earned the tribe tens of millions of dollars and become a model for other East Coast tribes.
The compact now before Mr. Cuomo would allow the 1,000-member Oneida Nation to operate blackjack, roulette and craps games 24 hours a day. It does not, however, allow slot machines, which are outlawed in New York State but are major moneymakers in Nevada and Atlantic City casinos.
The agreement gives New York State a major role in regulating the Oneida's casino. Inspectors from the state Racing and Wagering Board will be present in the casino at all times, and the state will run background checks on all casino employees and managers. Security at the casino will be provided jointly by the state police and a private police force hired by the Oneidas.
The state will not share in the take, but the Oneidas must pay for any regulatory costs incurred by the state.
Inspections have been a sticking point with the Mohawks, who consider state involvement an infringement on their sovereign rights.
"It's to our benefit to have the state involved," said Ray Halbritter, the Oneida Nation representative, an elected position in the tribe. "We're more concerned about integrity than anybody. That's just good business sense. And it's the Oneida way."
Mr. Halbritter said the casino would not serve alcohol, at least at first. "Alcohol has been such a problem with our people, we can't bring ourselves to serve it," he said.
 
Financing Many Activities
 Strolling through the Oneida's cavernous glass and metal casino, which will accommodate three restaurants, shops and 5,000 patrons when it is completed this spring, Mr. Halbritter said casino gambling could pump hundreds of millions of dollars each year into a largely impoverished community.
"We'd prefer other forms of economic development, but we don't have those resources," Mr. Halbritter said. "And we don't expect the Federal and state governments to take care of our people."
In recent years, unemployment among the Oneidas has risen as high as 80 percent, with many families earning less than $5,000 a year, Mr. Halbritter said. Many Oneidas live in trailer homes on their 32-acre reservation.
With revenues from the casino, which would employ 2,000 people, the tribe plans to build housing for senior citizens, expand the health clinic and start a college scholarship fund. Gambling profits could also finance Oneida ventures such as hotels, restaurants, a museum on Indian history and companies that produce and package Indian foods and herbal medicines.
In many tribes, gambling has sparked emotional debates pitting those who consider it a violation of sacred traditions and an impetus for crime against those who welcome it as a source of venture capital. In 1985, anti-gambling Oneidas burned a bingo hall, and in 1990, two Indians were killed during protests against illegal casinos on the Mohawk reservation.
 
Wider Implications Seen
 But opposition to the Oneida compact within the Legislature is likely to come from members who consider it the first step toward casino gambling throughout the state.
"It appears as though we're backing into gaming on Indian reservations and that opens the door to having it in other places," said Assemblyman John J. Faso, a Republican from Hudson. "What are the controls, what are the effects on the local economy, how do you keep organized crime out. These are all questions you have to ask."
But supporters of gambling, who view it as a way to revive tourism in places such as the Catskills, welcomed the Oneida compact for that very reason. "All this does is reinforce my belief that casino gambling should be allowed in New York State," said Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Yonkers Republican. "It's apparent it's here to stay, and New York State should get some benefit from it."
There are also questions as to whether the Legislature has any power to veto the compact. The Oneidas contend only Mr. Cuomo's signature is needed. And if he withholds approval, the Oneidas can ask a Federal judge to approve the agreement.

GRAPHIC: Map shows site of proposed Oneida casino. (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; VERONA (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ONEIDA INDIANS; CASINOS GAMING (94%); CASINOS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CARD GAMES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) THOMAS E DEWEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



280 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Loans Overdue Dropped in '92

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
The percentage of Americans behind on their loan payments dipped last year as the economy gradually improved, a banking group said today.
The American Bankers Association said consumer loans at least 30 days past due fell to a seasonally adjusted 2.43 percent at the end of the fourth quarter, from 2.58 percent a year earlier. The rate has declined for three straight quarters, from 2.75 percent during the first quarter of last year. 
 "Clearly, 1992 was a better year for the majority of households, " said James Chessen, the association's chief economist.
Areas of the Northeast, one of the areas hit hardest by the recession, had the highest delinquency rates at the end of the year. New York's rate was 5.26 percent; Rhode Island's, 4.80 percent; Connecticut's, 4.72 percent; New Hampshire's, 4.61 percent, and Massachusetts', 4.46 percent.
The rate is derived from a poll of 800 banks in the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is a composite for seven types of closed-end consumer loans and excludes first mortgages and credit card loans.
The trade group said that delinquency rates for bank credit cards declined to a seasonally adjusted 2.93 percent in the fourth quarter, from 3.14 percent in the third quarter and 3.29 percent a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (58%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN (ABA) AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (92%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN (ABA) AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (92%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



281 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Rebels in Liberia Reported to Suffer Setbacks

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
After three years of tangled politics and intermittent warfare in Liberia, the rebel leader Charles Taylor's military position is deteriorating rapidly, according to reports from West Africa and State Department officials.
The officials say Mr. Taylor's rebel force, the National Patriotic Front of Liberia, is being pressed hard by a better armed West African peacekeeping force and their militia allies. 
 In addition, State Department experts say that Mr. Taylor is running out of fuel as a result of an embargo being enforced by the West Africans and that his troops' morale is plummeting.
Reuters reported that Mr. Taylor is about to abandon his headquarters, Gbarnga, and move his base of operations to Zwedru, near the border with the Ivory Coast, where his forces often get supplies.
 
Down But Not Out
 Still, American officials say it is too early to declare Mr. Taylor defeated.
"Certainly Charles Taylor has major problems," said a State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But keep in mind the fact that this guy still has troops in 70 percent of the country."
Aides to Mr. Taylor deny that his military position has been weakened and say the West African peacekeeping force has put out false reports of Mr. Taylor's problems. These aides called for the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers in the country and say they will not surrender any arms to the West Africans, who they say are taking sides in the civil war.
"What they are trying to do is put out a lot of false propaganda that doesn't contribute to the peace process," said Momolu Sirleaf, who describes himself as foreign minister for Mr. Taylor and who lives in suburban Maryland.
American officials are cheered by the reports of setbacks for Mr. Taylor, who they blame for an attack on Monrovia, the country's capital, that ruptured a 20-month cease-fire. His troops also killed five American nuns last October.
 
Concern Over Alliance
 But State Department officials and some experts on Liberia have also expressed concern that the Nigerian-dominated peacekeeping force organized by the Economic Community of West African States has taken sides in the civil war.
In particular, State Department officials have expressed concern that the West African force has been cooperating with the United Liberation Movement of Liberia for Democracy and remnants of the country's Army.

GRAPHIC: Map of Liberia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: WESTERN AFRICA (98%); AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBERIA (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEST AFRICAN GLASS INDUSTRIES LTD (85%); WEST AFRICAN ALUMINIUM PRODUCTS PLC (85%); WEST AFRICAN PORTLAND CEMENT CO LTD (85%); WEST AFRICAN MONETARY AGENCY (85%); WEST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (85%); WEST AFRICAN MILLS CO LTD (85%); WEST AFRICAN SEASONING CO LTD (85%); WEST AFRICAN PROVINCIAL INSURANCE CO (85%); WEST AFRICAN MINING SERVICES LTD (85%); WEST AFRICAN BATTERIES LTD (85%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA WESTERN AFRICA (98%); AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBERIA (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; TAYLOR, CHARLES

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



282 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Official Faults Japan's Technology Industry

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 10

 BODY:
Signaling that Japan is preparing to respond to President Clinton's proposals to improve American competitiveness, a senior Government official contends that Japan's high-technology companies have grown lazy in recent years and that the country may be forced to begin Government-led research and development projects to restore its position in electronics and computing.
Noboru Hatakeyama, the Vice Minister of International Trade and Industry and the man responsible for overseeing the country's industrial strategies, harshly criticized Japanese technology companies. He said Tuesday that they had failed to master some critical technologies like microprocessors and computer work stations and that a concerted effort in coming years would be needed for Japan to catch up. "We cannot keep losing," he said. 
 "Up until now, we never thought that some industries have lost competitiveness," Mr. Hatakeyama said. "But now we have to face up to it."
 
Sees U.S.-Style Network
 Mr. Hatakeyama said no concrete plans had yet been made for research and development initiatives, and he suggested it would be several years before they came together.
But on a more urgent timetable, he added, his ministry hopes to begin an effort that closely mirrors one of the Clinton Administration's highest technology priorities: building a new, far more sophisticated telecommunications infrastructure. The idea, he said, would be "very similar" to the Clinton-Gore effort to build an information superhighway that would lead to a national high-speed computer network.
Mr. Hatakeyama's comments to a group of foreign correspondents were particularly striking because the critiques he offered about Japan -- and the solutions he proposed -- mirrored Japanese criticisms of the United States that had been issued here for years. Time and again, officials from Mr. Hatakeyama's ministry have lectured visitors that American industry needed to adopt a Japanese-style focus on the long term and a willingness for cooperation between business and government.
 
Bloated Powerhouses
 Mr. Hatakeyma, however, painted a very different picture, describing some of Japan's biggest industrial powerhouses as bloated and shortsighted. These days, he suggested, Japan is paying the price for a spending spree in which it added far too much factory capacity and gave too little thought to the technologies of the future.
"One of the reasons Japanese companies lost their competitiveness was their laziness during the bubble era," Mr. Hatakeyma said, referring to the period between 1985 and late 1990, when Japan's economy soared. "They just invested in too much capacity and thought they could survive without closing down older ones," he said. "That is why we are now facing a situation of having to close old plants."
Mr. Hatakeyama's criticisms notwithstanding, many economists have noted for several years that throughout the Japanese economic boom, companies spent heavily on research and development; so heavily, in fact, that the United States Congress held hearings on the "research gap" between the two countries.
 
Slow to Cut Costs
 Nonetheless, American executives working and visiting here have begun to argue in recent months that Japan is only now beginning a process of industrial restructuring that the United States started several years ago.
"For once, American industry has wrung itself out ahead of the rest of the world," Earle H. Harbison Jr., the president and chief operating officer of the Monsanto Company, said here this week.
At the same time, many economists and executives here say that pressure to restructure and cut costs plays to Japan's greatest strength. The virtual hysteria about plunges in industrial production and competitive lapses, these experts suggest, is part of the process of consensus building, creating an atmosphere that makes it easier for Japanese companies to justify breaking taboos about closing plants and forcing out workers.
Mr. Hatakeyama was quick to say that Japan's competitive troubles have their political advantages. American-made goods have become more attractive, alleviating Japan's surging trade surpluses. He noted, for example, that the Japanese market for computer work stations is dominated by two American companies. Though he did not name them, he was clearly referring to Sun Microsystems Inc. and the Hewlett-Packard Company.
But over the long term, he suggested, such dominance is not tolerable. "It is O.K. for the time being," he said. "We welcome those imports. But we cannot keep losing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); ELECTRONICS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); RESEARCH RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); PLANT CAPACITY (65%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HATAKEYAMA, NOBORU; SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



283 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Debt Grows by 5.3% in U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
Debt held by households, businesses and governments grew at a seasonally adjusted rate of 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the Federal Reserve Board said today.
The gain followed a 4.1 percent rate of increase in the previous quarter and reflected continuing rapid growth in Federal Government debt, the Fed said. 
 The debt report excludes banks and other financial institutions.
During the fourth quarter, Federal Government debt was mounting at a 10 percent annual rate. "In contrast, growth in debt of the non-Federal sectors was at a 3.5 percent rate," the Fed noted.
Household debt grew at a 5.7 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter after a 5.5 percent rate in the previous quarter.
Business debts rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, compared with a 0.3 percent rate in the third quarter.
The Fed said businesses are continuing to reduce their corporate debt as a percentage of equity. Corporations sold equities at an annual rate of $14 billion in the fourth quarter, the Fed said.
Debt growth among state and local governments declined in the fourth quarter to a 3.5 percent annual rate from 5.4 percent in the third quarter. The primary reason for the slowdown was a large volume of bond retirements by the state and local governments, the Fed said. Cheaper long-term interest rates have made it practical to pay off existing debt and refinance at lower rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CORPORATIONS; CONSUMER CREDIT; LOCAL GOVERNMENT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); BONDS (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



284 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Trump Owes Back Taxes on Land for Tower

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump owes New York City $4.4 million in back property taxes for his land on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where he plans to build a huge $3 billion apartment complex, city records show.
Mr. Trump said in an interview on Tuesday that he was thinking about withholding his tax payments, and would continue to do so until he gets new benefits from the city and state, including tax breaks and state-backed financing. 
 "I've always informed the city -- and I don't know if anyone was listening -- but I've always informed everyone that until such time that we get zoning and the economic development package together, to pay real-estate taxes would be foolish," Mr. Trump said on Tuesday.
Yesterday, though, after discussions with city officials who had said on Tuesday that they were unhappy with his stand, Mr. Trump telephoned The New York Times to say he had changed his mind.
 
Months in Developing
 "I've decided," he said late yesterday afternoon, 24 hours after insisting that he would not pay, "that I'm going to work out an agreement to pay the taxes."
This issue had been developing for months.
The city records show that last fall, as Mr. Trump was bargaining with city officials for extraordinary zoning changes and special permits that now allow him to build a his complex, called Riverside South, he owed the city more than $2 million in back property taxes for the site. The bill has now climbed to $4.4 million.
Virtually all of the city officials who negotiated with the developer last fall in the talks that led to final approval of the complex in December by the City Council said that they did not know that he owed taxes on the site, which is bounded by 59th Street, 72d Street, West End Avenue and the Hudson River. Mr. Trump plans to build 12 apartment towers, with a total of 5,700 apartments.
When they were told on Tuesday about the tax debt, several senior city officials said they were not inclined to discuss additional benefits with Mr. Trump while he was declining to pay taxes. Some also said they wished they had known last fall that he was falling behind on his tax payments.
Some city officials said that the zoning changes approved for Mr. Trump increased the value of his land, perhaps by hundreds of thousands of dollars, and that as a minimum he should have remained current in his tax payments. The officials could not be reached last night to comment on Mr. Trump's retraction of his threat to withhold further tax payments for the site.
There is no legal requirement that a developer be paid up on his property taxes to obtain zoning changes and other land-use benefits from the city, lawyers for the Council and other city officials said. Opponents of Riverside South argued last fall that Mr. Trump's financial status should be part of the debate on the proposal.
 
Breaks Not Part of Plan
 The Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, said on Tuesday, "There are taxes to be paid on this land and the owner ought to meet his obligations." Ms. Messinger supported the apartment complex proposal last fall when the developer and a coalition of civic groups pushed it through the city's prolonged land-use approval process.
Ms. Messinger, who has generally opposed special tax breaks for real-estate developers, said she was concerned about Mr. Trump's threat not to pay his taxes until his latest requests were approved.
 
Not Receptive
 Barbara J. Fife, deputy mayor for planning and development, said she had never been told by Mr. Trump that he would pay his property taxes only if he got approval for the zoning changes and tax breaks, and she indicated that she would not be particularly receptive to granting special tax abatements for the project.
Mr. Trump said he had talked yesterday with Mrs. Fife and Ms. Messinger, among others, about his tax bill and the additional city and state benefits that he is seeking for Riverside South. After those discussions, he said, he decided to drop his opposition and to pay the tax bill.
Officials from the city's Finance Department said that some major developers, feeling the financial pressure from the downturn in New York real estate, have let their tax payments slide. By law, if a large landowner does not pay property taxes for a year, the city can begin proceedings to take over the property. It takes at least one additional year before the city can take title to the land.
According to the Finance Department's records, Mr. Trump has not paid a property tax bill of $2,045,800 that was due last July and another bill of $2,045,992 that was due Jan. 1. With interest, at 18 percent, he owes a total of $4.4 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAXES; RIVERSIDE SOUTH PROJECT (NYC); TAXATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); ZONING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



285 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Saatchi & Saatchi's turnaround team plays back the highlights.

BYLINE: By Adam Bryant

 BODY:
THE agenda called for a discussion of Saatchi & Saatchi's 1992 finances with a small gathering of reporters in New York yesterday. But Charles Scott and Robert Louis-Dreyfus, respectively the incoming and outgoing Saatchi chief executives, were in a breeze-shooting mood, happier to talk about their past team efforts and independent futures than Saatchi's results.
But first, those sobering numbers. The company reported this week that it lost 595.1 million, or about $859 million, largely because of a write-down to conform to new British accounting rules. Those rules, addressing the way good will is carried, saddled Saatchi with a 600 million, or $866 million, write-down, reflecting Saatchi's generosity in making acquisitions during the 1980's. Still, operating profits were 18.9 million, or $27.3 million, better than many analysts' expectations. And revenue rose 1.1 percent, to 748 million, or $1.08 billion. 
 Contrary to more optimistic predictions, the two executives said that advertising spending would be flat in the United States and Europe this year.
"We're reading a lot about the pickup in the States," Mr. Louis-Dreyfus said. "But we don't see it on the client side." In Europe, he added, the reverse is true: many Saatchi clients there are saying the economy is not as bad as many believe.
Appearances can be deceiving, even at Saatchi. Consider the unlikely team of Mr. Scott and Mr. Louis-Dreyfus, who could not be more different in style. Mr. Scott looks very much at home in the standard-issue blue suit and blue dress shirt he wore yesterday, while Mr. Louis-Dreyfus looks uncomfortable in a tie. One executive of a Saatchi subsidiary said that when he first saw Mr. Louis-Dreyfus at the office wearing jeans and running shoes, he mistook him for a messenger.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Scott said his management style as chief executive would not be like his flashier predecessor's. "I don't have that sort of charisma," he said. "I'm a professional accountant and will run the company in a more orderly fashion."
To be sure, many inside the Saatchi empire say that Scott has long been Mr. Louis-Dreyfus's watchdog and financial conscience but that he has started running the company more overtly in recent months. "We've got to make the numbers work for Scott," has become an oft-repeated phrase at Saatchi agencies.
Despite speculation, Mr. Scott will not be joining Mr. Louis-Dreyfus at Adidas A.G., the troubled German athletic shoe maker, where Mr. Louis-Dreyfus will test his turnaround skills next month after a two-week skiing vacation. Before moving to Saatchi, the two men worked together at IMS International Inc., a large pharmaceuticial market-research and publishing company, and their shared history prompted many people in advertising to speculate they might work together at Adidas. "I don't think that doing something once necessitates a habit," Mr. Scott said.
Mr. Louis-Dreyfus said he was largely satisfied with his work at Saatchi, which was in terrible financial shape when he was recruited by the Saatchi brothers, Maurice and Charles, in 1989 to clean up after the company's acquisition binge of the late 1980's.
But what did he learn during the last three and a half years? "Never accept a job without being sure the bankers are behind you," he said. Shortly after Mr. Louis-Dreyfus took over, he found himself hamstrung by the unwillingness of Saatchi's bankers to support his rapid timetable for shedding operations.
He also said he regretted worrying that clients might follow employees who left or were dismissed. In hindsight, however, he described that notion with an expletive, apparently believing now that clients have more of an institutional, rather than personal, relationship with their advertising agency.
"People don't control clients the way I thought they did," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Scott, left, and Robert Louis-Dreyfus, the incoming and outgoing Saatchi chief executives, respectively, talking to reporters. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ADS (FRA) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (82%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (82%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SAATCHI & SAATCHI CO PLC LOUIS DREYFUS SAS (91%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (90%); ADIDAS AG (82%); I M S INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAATCHI & SAATCHI CO PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPANY REPORTS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOOTWEAR (87%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); FOOTWEAR MFG (67%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (62%); SKIING (60%); 

PERSON: SCOTT, CHARLES; LOUIS-DREYFUS, ROBERT; BRYANT, ADAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



286 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Off in Narrow Trading

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Treasury prices bounced around in a narrow range yesterday, ending lower as investors and traders tried to figure what the next move in interest rates would be. The yield on the 30-year bond rose to 6.75 percent.
Some of the downward pressure on prices came from the announcement of President Clinton's plan to encourage bank lending to small businesses. As earlier in the week, there was selling of intermediate Treasury securities because investors feared the proposal would make banks sell some of the billions of these securities they hold. 
 Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen appeared to undermine some support for the 30-year bond when he said he planned no radical change in the mix of Treasury borrowing. The prospect of a cut in the size of the 30-year bond auctions had made some speculators bet the bond's price would move higher.
 
Economic and Technical
 Since the February employment report released last Friday showed that the economy was stronger than many had thought, investors and traders have been focusing on the other reasons for interest rates to move lower. The economic reasons are low inflation and President Clinton's plan to cut the Federal budget deficit. The so-called technical reasons are the expected near-term decline in Treasury borrowing and the buying of Treasury securities by state and local governments for the escrow funds used to pay off old high-interest-rate debt.
"The technicals could resurface at any time and push interest rates lower again," said James S. Fralick, principal senior economist at Morgan Stanley. "But it is not clear whether these technicals are enough to offset some of these fears about inflation. So you will get into a trading range until these things clear up."
Some worries about inflation are arising for several reasons. One is that the economy is moving at a faster pace than expected, and another is that the Commodity Research Bureau index of prices has risen sharply recently.
Tomorrow and Wednesday, the Government will report February inflation numbers for the Producer Price Index and the Consumer Price Index. If these reports are higher than expected, bond prices could drop, pushing yields higher. "There is a lot of nervousness in the market," Mr. Fralick said.
But even if this happens, Mr. Fralick is not expecting a significant reversal in interest rates. "We could back up to 7 percent if we had a couple of bad inflation numbers," he said, referring to the yield on the 30-year bond. But to go back to 7.75 percent would be very unusual in the next six to nine months."
In trading in the secondary market, the yield on the 30-year bond rose to 6.75 percent, from 6.73 percent on Tuesday, as the price fell 6/32 , to 10426/32 . The price of the five-year note, which is owned by many banks, was down 3/32 , and the yield rose to 5.22 percent, from 5.20 percent on Tuesday and 5.10 percent on Friday.
 
Bond Competition
 Do not doubt there is competition between the directors of two of the biggest borrowing operations in the country.
Yesterday, the Treasurer of California, Kathleen Brown, started a program to make state tax-exempt issues available to small investors. And she made clear that her proposal was outdoing that of the New York City Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman.
The new California product, which works much like a savings bond, accommodates investors with as little as $250. New York City's mini-bond program requires a much higher investment, depending on interest rates and the maturity of the bond. An investor had to pay more than $2,500 for a 10-year mini-bond with a $5,000 face value last fall.
Ms. Brown, in an interview yesterday, said, "This is much more of an attractive investment than any of the other mini-bonds across the country."
The California program will sell zero-coupon bonds, which do not pay any interest until they mature. Because of this fact, the bond can be sold at a price far below its face value. This is the same kind of bond used in the New York program.
To get to the lower minimum investment level of $250, California has set up a unit trust, which allows investors to buy units of each bond.
In both the California and New York programs, the bonds are only for long-term investors because no interest is paid until maturity.
Andrea Bernstein, the information secretary for the New York City Comptroller, said in response to the California plan, "We will follow California closely, and if it seems to be a success, it would be an idea that we would consider."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US) MORGAN STANLEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BUDGETS (79%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



287 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Farm County's 4-H Cuts: Head, Heart, Hand, Help!

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COBLESKILL, N.Y.

 BODY:
The boys and girls of the Dairy Dudes Club were out last month selling candy bars for $1 each. So were the members of the Sheep Thrills, the Hop-a-Lot and about 45 other 4-H Clubs here in rural Schoharie County.
The candy sales, along with chicken barbecues, bowlathons and other fund-raising, took in more than $56,000, enough to save the 4-H Clubs from extinction, at least for a while. 
 The money will also provide a reprieve for the clubs' parent organization, the Cooperative Extension Service, which had been scheduled to die on Feb. 28 as a result of broad budget cuts by the Board of Supervisors, the county's legislative body. The action by the supervisors, who are trying to keep the county tax rate down, automatically cut off matching funds from the state and Federal governments, in effect killing the Extension Service, which provides technical advice on agriculture, home economics and nutrition.
Even Donald Mackey, chairman of the supervisors' extension committee, voted against the appropriation for the Extension Service. "We had a choice," he said. "If we kept extension, we would have to lay off more workers."
 
Schoharie's Biggest Business
 Kenneth Olcott, president of the County Extension Service, said with emphasis that farming was still thriving here. "It is not a reflection of declining agriculture," he said. "It's an economic thing related to the county budget."
Indeed, agriculture is the county's biggest business, with 580 farms, mostly dairy and vegetable, making annual sales of about $30 million.
The farm community rallied to save the extension service and especially the 4-H Clubs, whose alumni include many farmers and other local residents. "Agriculture can come back, but if we lost 4-H, it could never come back," said John Stanton, a dairy farmer.
About 500 boys and girls between the ages of 8 and 18 belong to Schoharie County's 4-H, whose emblem is a four-leaf clover, with each leaf bearing the letter H, signifying health, heart, hand and head. They belong to clubs like the Dairy Dudes, which raises cows, the Sheep Thrills, which raises sheep, and the Hop-a-Lot, which raises rabbits.
 
'I Like Cows,' Says Trisha
 "It's a lot of fun," said Trisha Larkin, 11, who is a member of the Dairy Dudes. She cares for two cows and two calves herself, shows them at competitions and even on occasion judges cattle. "I like cows," she explained.
Joshua Radliff, 12, is a member of two clubs, the Dairy Dudes and the Hop-a-Lot.
"If they didn't have 4-H Clubs, a lot of people would feel really down and not as happy," he said. "The leaders they talk to you, they never yell. They're really great people."
The cliff-hanging rescue of the Extension Service and its 4-H Clubs put a spotlight on their pivotal role in education in upstate New York and their complicated financing.
 
Public-Private Cooperation
 Since 1912 the Cooperative Extension Service, based at Cornell University in Ithaca, has been advising both adults and youth. It gets its name because it is a cooperative venture between Federal, state and county governments and local residents, extending from Cornell.
Throughout the state last year it had a budget of $84 million, with 456 agents in offices in every county and in New York City. The money came 29 percent from county governments, 29 percent from the state, 19 percent from the Federal Government and the rest locally.
Because of the successful fund-raising drive here, which will allow the Extension Service to qualify for some matching money, it will continue to operate, although in a reduced form, for the rest of this year. Its budget last year was $480,000, with $200,000 coming from the county. This year it will make do with about $100,000.
Schoharie is the only county in the state that cut its extension budget completely this year. Sixteen counties cut budgets somewhat, 18 provided the same amount as last year and 22 increased their financing, according to Dr. Lucinda Noble, director of the extension service at Cornell.
"I don't see doom and gloom around the state about the future of Cooperative Extension," said Dr. Noble. "I see smaller programs, but sometimes smaller is better. We obviously will have to adjust."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In upstate Schoharie County, efforts to hold down the budget have threatened an institution that has kept interest in agriculture alive for generations of rural children, the 4-H Club. After a reprieve was found through private donations, Trisha and Lucas Larkin practiced presenting their calf as Kathy Krisowaty, the county's 4-H program manager, and, John Stanton, the farm's owner, looked on. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOUR-H CLUBS; COOPERATIVE EXTENSION SERVICES CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOUR-H CLUBS; COOPERATIVE EXTENSION SERVICES CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SCHOHARIE COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD JOHN P MACKEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



288 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Air Base Stands to Lose Jobs

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey will apparently not be on the list of military bases to be shut down, but it could still lose 7,000 of its 12,000 jobs by 1996, according to preliminary plans presented to New Jersey's Congressional delegation by Pentagon officials today.
Under the plans, all active-duty military personnel now stationed at the base, which is home to the Air Force's 438th Airlift Wing, a supply unit, would be transferred to Plattsburgh Air Force Base in upstate New York. Three reserve squadrons, including two units of the New Jersey National Guard, would be left. 
 The plans were condemned by members of the Congressional delegation, who said the transfers would devastate the area economically. The base, adjacent to Fort Dix, employs about 12,000 people, and according to estimates from the office of Representative H. James Saxton, a Republican, 4,500 of those people are on active duty and would be subject to the transfers. Perhaps some 2,500 civilian support jobs would be moved, the Congressman's office said.
"This is a bad decision," said Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democrat. "It's another economic blow to a region of the state that has already suffered." He said that he and Mr. Saxton would meet at the base on Friday to announce their strategy on how to get the plans changed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE (NJ); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MILITARY PERSONNEL ARMED FORCES (97%); AIR FORCES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); JIM SAXTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



289 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends the Day Mixed; Gold Prices Mostly Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mixed on world currency markets yesterday and gold prices were mostly lower.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery fell 30 cents an ounce, settling at $326.30, its lowest price in about a year. The Republic National Bank said gold slipped 60 cents an ounce, to a late bid price of $326.15. 
 Analysts said there appeared to be a downward bias toward the dollar even though the currency posted spotty gains. Many traders were reluctant to commit to the dollar ahead of the Commerce Department's report tomorrow on retail sales for February, which is expected to be flat.
Interest rates continued to decline in Europe, with the Dutch and Belgian central banks announcing reductions. But Mr. Donney said they appeared to be catching up with the moves last week by the Bundesbank of Germany, which took steps to lower short-term rates.
 
Waiting for Statistics
 Meanwhile, the market appeared to be waiting for more statistics on the United States economy, Mr. Donney said. The 12 regional bank presidents of the Federal Reserve, who testified in Congress yesterday, offered no surprises about economy.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 117.90 yen, up 0.97 yen from Tuesday's close. The dollar was quoted at 117.95 in later London trading. In New York, the dollar settled at 118.05 yen, up from 117.75 on Tuesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.4325, from $1.4350 late Tuesday. In New York it cost $1.4330 to buy one pound, less expensive than Tuesday's $1.4405.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.6665 German marks, unchanged; 1.5355 Swiss francs, down from 1.5405; 5.6580 French francs, up from 5.6505; 1,606.50 Italian lire, down from 1,607.00, and 1.2448 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2457.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.6750 German marks, up from 1.6680; 1.5354 Swiss francs, down from 1.5425; 5.6525 French francs, down from 5.6570; 1.8713 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8740; 1,601.00 Italian lire, down from 1,610.00, and 1.2461 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2462.
Silver prices advanced. On the Comex, silver bullion for current delivery settled at $3.561 an ounce, up from $3.557 on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (56%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (56%); JAPAN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RETAIL SALES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



290 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: New Policy Forming on Asia Trade

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is drafting a trade policy toward Japan, China and Southeast Asia that would combine aid to American high-technology industries with negotiations to open Asian markets for these products, Administration officials said today.
The new policy of supporting specific exports is a sharp departure from the Bush Administration approach of seeking across-the-board trade liberalization, which sometimes benefited other countries as much as American companies. 
 The policy, the first and clearest outcome of President Clinton's call for making trade an integral part of the nation's economic and national security concerns, reflects a belief that the Bush Administration sometimes fought free trade battles that did little to create American jobs.
They point to the Bush Administration's long and successful struggle to persuade Tokyo to remove restrictions on large stores and allow Toys "R" Us Inc. to open outlets there. Many toys sold by the company come from Southeast Asia, not the United States.
 
Roles for 2 Agencies
 "You open up the distribution system and lo and behold, everything is manufactured in Thailand," said a senior Administration trade official who insisted on anonymity.
The Commerce Department, for example, would spend money to help the computer, semiconductor and aerospace industries stay technologically competitive, while the Office of the United States Trade Representative would oversee negotiations on opening Asian markets for them, the official said.
The new policy does not include any plans for the sort of severe trade restrictions that the auto and textile industries have been seeking. The Administration trade official said that because of the program's emphasis on supporting exports, there might be little immediate effect on the nation's swelling trade deficit with Japan, which reached $49.42 billion last year.
Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, told the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday that American officials might seek specific shares of foreign markets for American companies, adding, "There is great interest in this Administration on that approach." He said an interagency review had begun of policy toward Japan, but he provided few details.
Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, has played an extensive role in the development of the new policy. She has been in many hours of meetings with Mr. Kantor, who is overseeing the policy's development, and his top aides.
Ms. Tyson published a book last year, entitled "Who's Bashing Whom? Trade Conflict in High-Technology Industries," that outlined some of the specific policies now envisioned.
The new policy may also be tempered by the same diplomatic and military concerns that limited the Bush Administration's willingness to restrict imports from Japan.
Diplomatic and military concerns are also strongly affecting trade policy toward China but are being used within the Administration to justify a more restrictive trade policy instead of the less restrictive one for Japan. At a meeting last week with about two dozen chairmen of the nation's largest multinational corporations, President Clinton said he did not want a "showdown" on China's trade access to the United States but was concerned about Chinese exports of military technology.
 
Strong Position Urged
 Three people who attended the closed-door meeting in the Old Executive Office Building's elegant Indian Treaty Room said Mr. Clinton told the gathering that unless the United States took a strong position now, it might find itself a decade from now with a nuclear bomb under the World Trade Center and a need to evacuate all of Manhattan. White House officials declined to discuss the remark, saying the meeting had been confidential.
The Bush Administration persuaded Beijing last year to adopt a 12-page list of tariff reductions and other measures to open its markets. The agreement was partly intended to address a yawning trade imbalance, as the United States imported Chinese goods worth $25.73 billion and exported only $7.47 billion worth of goods to China.
Chinese bureaucrats appear to be obstructing some American exports covered by the agreement, notably auto parts. "We're coming up with all sorts of horror stories," the senior Administration official said.
The Clinton Administration is including Southeast Asia in the same policy review because it is one of the few regions in the world now showing strong economic growth. The United States holds the rotating chairmanship of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation this year, an organization with headquarters in Singapore that includes six Southeast Asian nations plus Australia, Canada, China, Japan, New Zealand, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan.
 
The Semiconductor Example
 The new policy is heavily influenced by the perceived success of the Bush Administration's policies toward the semiconductor industry. These included a Government-sponsored industry research program, Sematech, as well as a 1991 trade agreement in which the Japanese Government "recognized" the American industry's expectation that it would win 20 percent of the Japanese semiconductor market by the end of 1992.
The new policy also owes an intellectual debt to Japanese Government-guided growth policies of the 1950's and 60's, which have fallen into disfavor with many academics during the current economic stagnation in Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (69%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (94%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ;COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; TRADE REPRESENTATIVE, OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TOYS 'R' US INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; TRADE REPRESENTATIVE, OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (94%); THAILAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) ; SEMICONDUCTORS TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); TEXTILES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



291 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Plan for Banks Gets Mixed Reception

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
In the words of a Treasury Department official outlining the Clinton Administration's new proposals today to spur lending to small businesses, the credit crunch is not a matter of clogged arteries but of constricted capillaries.
So what the economic doctors apparently prescribed today was a thorough massage of bank regulations, not open heart surgery. And the prescription, presented by President Clinton after weeks of promotion, was cheered quietly by advocates of less regulation but criticized mildly by others concerned with the safety of the banking system. 
 "No one could quarrel with the President's goal," said Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat who is chairman of the House Banking Committee. In an ambivalent statement, he said that "the true test" would come only when full details were provided, and that "the trick is to insure that lenders are not tempted again to become casinos."
 
Clinton Outlines Program
 Mr. Clinton, outlining the program to lenders and borrowers at the White House, called it "a step to speed the economic recovery that will increase jobs by increasing access to credit for the main engine of our economy, small- and medium-sized businesses."
Bankers were pleased but not ecstatic. "We are certainly supportive of what he is attempting to do, but we would like to see a lot more regulatory rollback," said James R. Lauffer, chairman and chief executive of the First National Bank of Hermanie in Pennsylvania. Mr. Lauffer was recently elected president of the International Bankers Association of America.
The broad outlines of the Administration's proposals, which make technical changes in the ways that borrowers' creditworthiness and collateral are assessed, had been revealed in the last few days.
For example, the plan changes the way problem loans would be rated by examiners when borrowers have not actually defaulted, and allows some real estate to be used as collateral without costly appraisals.
 
Regulators to Coordinate
 The bank regulators from four agencies -- the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of Thrift Supervision -- have agreed to coordinate their work better and avoid disruptive duplication in bank examinations. And each agency will establish processes by which bankers, and even potential borrowers who have been turned down, could appeal regulatory decisions.
Although the plan requires no legislation, members of Congress said they would hold hearings on the proposals anyway, as if to remind the Administration that the newly enacted banking laws that have led to stricter regulation must not be disregarded.
"Our best estimate of the number of banks that will fail as a result of this program is zero, zero, zero," said an Administration official who insisted on anonymity at a briefing for reporters because his nomination to a Treasury banking post had not been confirmed by the Senate. "The cost to the taxpayer as a result of this program is zero."
Administration officials said that the fine print that regulatory agencies would be disgorging as they put the changes into writing should have more than a psychological effect on lenders and bank examiners.
"What we're doing is not just making broad statements, but we are going to be issuing very specific, very detailed regulations," the Treasury official said. But crucial details were not disclosed today, because, officials said, they were still being worked out.
 
Cutting Down Paperwork
 For example, one proposal will allow strong banks to create baskets of loans for small businesses with minimal documentation. At his presentation, President Clinton held up a fat folder of paperwork for such loans under the current system, and a thin sheaf of forms under the new process.
But officials would not say how a strong bank would be defined, how big a small business could be and still qualify for fast-track loans, how big the loans could be, how many a bank would be allowed to include in its portfolio or exactly what documentation would be required under the new rules.
Some of the changes affecting how banks may treat real estate involved in foreclosures are likely to be much more difficult to work out. Two of the changes, one allowing banks to lend more money to buyers of foreclosed property and the other dictating how loans are valued on banks' books when borrowers have no hope of repaying them, must be negotiated with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board before they can be adopted.
M. Scott Reed, a partner at the accounting firm of Grant Thornton and head of its financial institutions practice, called those two changes "troubling."
"What it smells to me of is loosening accounting requirements to make a bank look better," he said. "I think the opportunity for abuse is significant in that area."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; SMALL BUSINESS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BANKS AND BANKING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



292 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
U.S.-Made Steel Price Rises

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, March 10

 BODY:
The nation's big steelmakers, reacting to growing signs of an economic recovery, say they plan to raise some steel prices by as much as 5 percent, effective July 4.
The Chicago-based Inland Steel Industries, one of the largest steel producers in the United States, said Tuesday that it started the latest round of price increases March 1, as it began informing customers that it planned to raise prices of all of its sheet steel by $20 a ton, or 3 percent to 5 percent, depending on the product. 
The USX Corporation's U.S. Steel Group, the nation's largest steel producer, which is based here, and the Cleveland-based LTV Corporation's steel unit, the nation's third-largest, followed suit, notifying customers of similar price increases days after Inland's announcement.
A spokesman for the Bethlehem Steel Corporation of Bethlehem, Pa., the nation's second-largest steelmaker, said his company was studying the price increase.
The increase is the third planned by American steelmakers this year. The most recent was an increase announced in late January that will go into effect April 4.
Industry analysts said this winter's increases marked the industry's first success on pricing in years. They linked this success to the economy's slow climb out of recession, as well as recent successful trade cases, which have cut the amount of steel imported into this country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (84%); MRO (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (84%); MARATHON OIL CORP (71%); LTV CORP (70%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (69%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; PRICES IRON & STEEL MILLS (95%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



293 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Lumber Prices Are Soaring On Shortages and Owl Feud

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, March 10

 BODY:
Lumber prices have jumped 82 percent since September and are likely to continue to soar with the arrival of spring, when building increases and the demand for lumber picks up.
Because the cost of lumber usually amounts to 10 to 15 percent of the cost of a new home, the shortage of lumber could eventually push up home prices. 
 "We haven't seen this kind of market since the late 1960's," said Robert Wulf, investor relations manager at Pope & Talbot, a 144-year-old timber company in Portland, Ore. "Panic buying started in the fourth quarter of 1992. If you're a builder and want to construct 10 houses, you want to make sure you have the lumber. Price is not as important as availability."
Behind the higher prices is a shortage of lumber, brought on in large part by the extent to which Federal forests have been closed to loggers for environmental reasons. Logging on eight million acres of timber owned by the Federal Government in the Pacific Northwest has been sharply reduced: from 1982 to 1992, sales of timber from land in Washington and Oregon owned by the United States Forest Service topped 4 billion board feet annually. Last year, they totaled a mere 385 million board feet.
William Pena, senior vice president for merchandising at Home Base, the nation's sixth-largest home improvement chain, with $1.5 billion in sales, said: "There's a code around our office that if you have the mill on the phone, don't hang up. An hour later, the price may have gone up $10 for a thousand board feet."
Reflecting the uncertainty, a sales flier from Henry Bacon Building Materials, which has five stores in Seattle, says: "Due to unanticipated market fluctuations, prices may be subject to change without notice."
In July composite framing lumber sold for $260 per thousand board feet; last Friday the cost had risen to $474.
The turmoil in the logging industry and the communities in which it is based -- 168 sawmills have closed and 20,000 people have lost jobs in the last decade -- has led President Clinton to schedule a meeting in Portland, Ore., on April 2, hoping all interested parties can help develop a plan to protect timber communities, save old-growth forests and create jobs.
The Federal forests in the Northwest remain a battleground between logging and environmental forces, the habitat of threatened species like the northern spotted owl.
And Mr. Wulf of Pope & Talbot said: "If it wasn't the owl, then it would be the marbled murrelet or salmon. They have a long list of species to keep people out of Federal forests."
John W. Creighton Jr., chief executive of Weyerhaeuser, in Federal Way, Wash., said: "I hope the President will reach an interim settlement to release Federal timber for sale. A new supply may mitigate some of the price increases. Otherwise, if housing starts surge, we might see a panic situation."
Still, not all lumber companies are suffering because of the shortages. Michael Shea, an analyst with the Charter Investment Group in Portland, said companies like Weyerhaeuser, Louisiana-Pacific, Pope & Talbot and Longview Fiber "will do very, very well in the next couple years."
The National Wildlife Federation said declines in supply could be offset by reducing the export of unprocessed logs. But Chris West, vice president of the Northwest Forestry Association, a timber industry group based in Portland, said exports were already coming down. He also noted that exports provided some other jobs even if they reduced some mill jobs.
Mr. Creighton of Weyerhaeuser said he was incredulous when he first heard of the spotted owl and its impact. The company said it had been forced to close large mills in Springfield and Klamath Falls, Ore., and a smaller mill in Snoqualmie, Wash. It also closed a pulp mill in Everett, Wash., where it had acquired its first sawmill in 1902. In all, 1,500 employees lost their jobs because the mills were dependent on timber from Federal lands.
 
'Families Split Apart'
 Jim Keller, the Klamath Falls city manager, said all of Klamath County had been hit hard, with 2,000 people out of work after six mills, including Weyerhaeuser's, were shut. "We've seen families split apart," he said. "The wife stays in the home because of the schoolchildren, and the husband relocates, looking for work."
Even so, environmentalists say automation has eliminated many of those jobs. But lumber industry executives dispute that, saying that automation may eliminate some jobs but add others, and has never been responsible for shutting a mill.
Weyerhaeuser is profitable now, but in 1991 the company recorded its first loss ever -- $162 million on sales of $8.7 billion. In addition to the recession and drop in housing starts, the company blamed falling pulp and paper prices and the spotted owl.
The situation has worsened because of extension of owl restrictions beyond Federal lands. State agencies in Washington and Oregon have declared that the restrictions apply to private lands as well, like the 2.5 million acres that Weyerhaeuser owns in the Northwest.
In November, Washington State's Department of Natural Resources told timber companies to set aside a 500-acre habitat circle nearly two miles in diameter around each owl sighting. In January the State Department of Wildlife sued the Natural Resources department, saying the circles should contain 2,600 to 3,900 acres, depending on the forest they are in.
So far, the Weyerhaeuser owl census has turned up 375. "We've got $2 billion in timber tied up that we can't ever harvest," Mr. Creighton said, speaking of the owl circles. "That's a sizable hit."
Weyerhaeuser says it spent $1 million searching for owl nests, and it recently wrote to contractors urging them to report any owl sighting. The letter said, "If your supervisor tells you to keep quiet, immediately report the incident to another member of management, bypassing the normal chain of command if necessary."
 
Soaring Prices and Profits
 Soaring prices that began in October in Weyerhaeuser's timber and wood products business helped turn finances around in 1992. The company earned $372 million on sales of $9.2 billion. In the fourth quarter the company had near-record quarterly earnings of $515 million, compared with a $67 million loss in the fourth quarter of 1991.
Peter T. Pope, chief executive of Pope & Talbot and the grandson of a company founder, said his company lost money for two years because of tough lumber, pulp, diaper and tissue markets. But strong fourth-quarter lumber sales helped trim overall losses for 1992 to $2.25 million, while sales rose 8 percent, to $544 million. "If markets continue as well as they are now, we'll make good money this year," he said.
Pope & Talbot used to depend on Federal timber, but Mr. Pope said he had closed an Oregon mill and bought three Canadian mills, where two-thirds of the company's lumber now comes from.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rising Lumber Prices" shows price of composite framing lumber from 6/92 to 3/93 (Source: Random Lengths) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5031 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK, & WOOD PANELS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: HENRY BACON BUILDING MATERIALS INC (53%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (55%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; PRICES; PUBLIC PROPERTY; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES; ENVIRONMENT; SHORTAGES LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); SAW MILLS (79%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (79%); HOME CENTERS (79%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); JOB CREATION (60%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



294 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Planting the Clinton flag on what might have been Bush's recovery.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
TO stimulate or not to stimulate? Listening to Bill Clinton, one might guess that he is still eager to use fiscal policy to wrench the economy out of the doldrums. "We certainly cannot declare a victory now," the President told a radio audience last week. "For while employment is edging up, unemployment is still higher than it was at the depths of this recession."
In fact, Mr. Clinton has proposed only symbolic stimulus for the current fiscal year -- a mere $15 billion dollop for a $6 trillion economy that at very most would add two-tenths of a percentage point to the 1993 growth rate. And when the White House's new agreement with House Democrats to pare an extra $55 billion of spending between 1994 and 1998 is taken into account, the economic plan actually becomes mildly restrictive in the years thereafter. 
 Skeptics thus may wonder whether the President has anything more in mind than planting his flag on what might otherwise have been called the Bush recovery. The more charitable view is that President Clinton has already learned the lesson that eluded President Read-My-Lips: What you say about the economy is every bit as important as what you do.
The latest statistical revisions suggest the economy has been perking along nicely since the summer, with output growing at a healthy 4 percent clip in the last two quarters of the year. And while employment growth has lagged behind the pace of other postwar recoveries, a surge in hiring last month has persuaded many -- probably most -- professional tea-leaf readers that the economy is not about to stumble again. Morgan Guaranty Trust, generally a conservative forecaster, is now projecting 3 percent-plus growth through 1994 -- and that forecast was made before the February employment boom was announced.
All this suggests that George Bush's economists had it almost right. Their one apparent error, argues Robert Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University, was to underestimate the time it would take for the Federal Reserve's 1991 shift toward easy money to pay off. This lag was especially long, Mr. Gordon says, because businesses were initially more interested in paying off debt than taking chances on adding productive capacity.
Why, then, has Bill Clinton's gloom and doom rhetoric changed so little since the election campaign? One reason, presumably, is that the recovery is a comfort only to those who are part of it. And with 7 percent of the work force still unemployed, the President is not about to do a George Bush let-them-eat-pork-rinds number on millions of his less fortunate constituents.
Another, suggests one insider, is that "Clinton had to offer a sugar coating to convince Congress to swallow the bitter pill" of deficit reduction. The first year of the economic recovery program does offer a dash of sweetness for everyone from unemployed teen-agers to the corner hardware store owner looking for a tax break on a computerized cash register.
In hindsight, however, it is plain that the Clinton team had grown skeptical of the need for stimulus as early as December. The $50 billion shot in the arm proposed by a bevy of liberal economists during the campaign was shelved in favor of a $15 billion potpourri -- which could easily be whittled to $12 to $13 billion if spending on public works takes a predictably long time to begin.
But it is also clear that the President saw no need to abandon the symbolic commitment to jump-start the economy. "The Democrats have learned some lessons," concludes Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "One is that people don't read balance sheets."
Actually the balancing act between the perception of action and the more cautious reality has worked better than Mr. Clinton could have possibly dreamed. On the one hand, his take-charge routine has given a lot of consumers and businesses the confidence to go out and shop, while the tough talk about deficit spending has apparently brought long-term interest rates down to levels that will help insure the recovery.
What could go wrong? Not everyone agrees that better times are sure to come without real stimulus. Lawrence Klein, the Nobel Prize-winning econometrician who has retired from the University of Pennsylvania, thinks the growth rate in 1992 was exaggerated by the big cleanup after the fall hurricanes. And he predicts that the economy will grow less than 2 percent in 1993 -- hardly enough to keep the current work force employed.
Perhaps the greater worry is that Mr. Clinton's nimble performance thus far will leave the public unprepared for a much tougher sell on the President's No. 1 priority: radical health-care reform. Here, Mr. Clinton will not be able to take credit for good things beyond his control. Indeed, the problem will be in convincing a skeptical majority that the alternative to less service at higher out-of-pocket costs is bound to be something worse.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE; PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



295 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Increased Cigarette Tax Could Reduce Fires;
Phase Out the Growing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Former President Jimmy Carter doesn't go far enough when he proposes that President Clinton raise the tobacco tax $2 a pack to improve health care and reduce Federal budget deficits (letter, Feb. 21). He argues that this would raise more than $20 billion a year in new revenue and reduce smoking rates, particularly among the young, enough to save two million lives. 
 Only since 1991 has the Federal Government reported that nearly half a million deaths in the United States each year can be attributed to smoking. This death rate from tobacco use roughly doubles the annual total of all deaths caused by AIDS, car accidents, suicide, homicide, fires, alcohol, crack-cocaine and heroin -- or the annual death rate from tobacco use exceeds all the casualties of the Civil War.
How can we call for a drug-free America and continue to ignore the causal relationship between tobacco smoking and cancer?
Tobacco farmers with whom I have spoken are seeking realistic economic alternatives for their cash crop. Why not offer farmers who grow tobacco in 20 states a five-year phase-out program, with technical assistance and low-interest loans for those who participate voluntarily to switch over to growing other commodities?
After all, precedent has been set, not the least of which were government incentives to cocaine growers in South America. The Agricultural Extension Service, a cooperative effort between the Department of Agriculture and the state land grant universities, could be the conduit for disseminating this technology and assistance to growers, as well as advice on marketing strategies and commercial outlets for alternative commodities.
In recent years, for example, the landscaping-nursery industry has exceeded tobacco in the amount of income generated in North Carolina, the country's primary tobacco-growing state. The tobacco industry has had such a hold on politicians, it's been difficult to get at the facts. Only last year, the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Foundation named 10 fellowships after North Carolina's Commissioner of Agriculture. The tobacco lobby has been among the top contributors to the party coffers of both Democrats and Republicans.
Even President Carter, right after his election, was the Georgia plantation-house guest of Smith Bagley, the Reynolds tobacco family heir.
President Clinton might fix a noble place in history by his leadership in creating a national transition program to phase out tobacco and by his appointment of Mr. Carter to head a commission to oversee that transition.
 
ROGER DEAN SHARPE
New York, Feb. 23, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO GMBH (52%); RJ REYNOLDS TOBACCO DOHANYIPARI-KERESKEDELMI KFT (52%); R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO UK LTD (52%); R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO POLAND SP ZOO (52%); RJ REYNOLDS TOBACCO HOLDINGS INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING; EXCISE TAXES; TAXATION SMOKING (91%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COCAINE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO FARMING (90%); POLITICS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); TOBACCO MFG (85%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); HOMICIDE (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); HEROIN (69%); DRUG POLICY (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (50%); 

PERSON: CARTER, JIMMY BILL CLINTON (90%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



296 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Why Canadians Grew Cold to Mulroney

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Were you being tongue in cheek in "Mr. Mulroney Steps Down" (editorial, Feb. 25), praising Brian Mulroney, the Canadian Prime Minister? While you acknowledge that he is unpopular at home (he has the lowest popularity rating of any Canadian Prime Minister in this century), you state that he has been a "good friend" to the United States. 
 The (perhaps unintended) point you clearly make is that Mr. Mulroney's friendliness to the United States is exactly why Mr. Mulroney is so unpopular at home. He has spent most of his tenure dismantling Canada's "social accord," pushing the Reagan-Bush agenda of free trade, privatization and deregulation. United States and foreign corporations may love him for giving away Canada's wealth, but the cost to Canadians has been staggering: reduced social benefits, enormous loss of jobs, severe recession. It's not surprising he resigned -- he knew his party didn't stand a chance of winning another election with him at the helm.
One last thought: think of the company you have put Mr. Mulroney in, foreign leaders who were good friends to the United States, but massively unpopular at home. Some names that come to mind are Ferdinand E. Marcos, Fulgencio Batista, the Shah of Iran, Papa Doc Duvalier. I could go on, but I'm sure you get the point.
 
JAMES MANGAN
Exec. Director, Minnesota Working
Group on Economic Dislocation
Minneapolis, March 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CANADA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN) RONALD REAGAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



297 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: REPORTS WARNING OF H.U.D. PROBLEMS

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Mar. 10

 BODY:
Four years after corruption and mismanagement scandals mired the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a succession of reports has warned that the department's management systems remain out of control, and its Inspector General has warned that "another H.U.D. scandal is a distinct possibility."
The reports say problems in staffing, data systems and accounting controls are leading to the misuse of hundreds of millions of dollars, leaving the department with an uncertain grasp of more than $1 trillion in financial commitments. 
 A confidential report prepared by President Clinton's transition team said that mismanagement at the department was "clear and devastating" and that it "opens the door to the systematic plunder of many millions of taxpayer dollars." It also said the problems would take years to overcome and warned that they could hamper the Administration's plans for economic development.
The document, reported today in The Washington Post, offers few examples of projects gone awry, but in the past year Congressional investigators have produced graphic ones. They found department programs giving a low-interest loan to a Saudi sheik, spending $3 million to renovate housing built on a toxic-waste dump in Florida and paying more than $5 million in rent subsidies to the Philadelphia Housing Authority for buildings that had been destroyed as much as 15 years earlier.
 
Secretary Is Critical
 Speaking of the weak financial safeguards in a department that spends $25 billion a year and stands behind hundreds of billions of dollars in mortgage guarantees, Housing Secretary Henry G. Cisneros said in an interview today: "It's like a car without headlights. It doesn't mean it's going to go off the road, but it enhances your chances of not making the next curve."
In 1989 accusations of mismanagement, influence peddling and favoritism during the tenure of Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr. in the Reagan Administration jolted the department. A special counsel later began an investigation, which has so far resulted in four convictions, with four cases pending. Jack F. Kemp, who succeeded Mr. Pierce, , was widely credited with improving the ethical environment in the department, and no one is suggesting that the department today is rife with corruption.
But the reports warn that the department still lacks the management systems to prevent and detect such abuses.
Mr. Cisneros praised Mr. Kemp's emphasis on ethics and said most of the problems began before the latter's watch. But he also said Mr. Kemp had been attracted to "ideologically attractive themes" like the sale of public housing, while "there was some inattention" to basic management.
 
Response to Secretary
 Mr. Kemp could not be reached today, but a spokesman, Bill Dal Col said Mr. Cisneros was criticizing his predecessor to protect himself in the event a scandal breaks out in his tenure.
The department's problems were graphically summarized in the transition report, written by Andrew M. Cuomo, who has since been nominated to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Community Planning and Development. They were also detailed last year in analyses by the General Accounting Office and the outgoing Inspector General, Paul A. Adams.
"It's just a matter of time before something's going to slip," said John Connors, the department's Acting Inspector General.
In a report of his own, Mr. Connors listed six areas as especially troubled: public housing, the Community Development Block Grant program, the Section 8 rental assistance program, the management of repossessed single-family homes, the management of multifamily housing loans and the Ginnie Mae program, which has a staff of only 70 people to oversee Federal guarantees of $450 billion in mortgage securities.
 
A Troubled Program
 The criticisms of the block grant program could be especially troubling to the Administration, which has pledged to add $2.5 billion to the program's current budget.
The program offers about $4 billion a year in grants to cities and states, letting them use the money for a wide variety of activities like laying sidewalks, building schools, razing slums and creating jobs. At least 70 percent of the money is supposed to be spent on activities that benefit people with low or moderate incomes, but investigators have said the money is frequently used for ineligible purposes.
Mr. Cisneros said he had been warning mayors to be sure the money was spent appropriately.
The transition report was especially critical of the program for insuring loans for apartment buildings. It said understaffing and mismanagement were driving up the default rate since problem loans were not recognized until it was too late to do anything positive about them. The problems "could lead to hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars in losses," it said.
 
More Bad News
 In an interview last week, Mr. Connors said the department's problems stemmed from systemic weaknesses in data systems, personnel policies and "internal controls." For example, the size of the department's staff has fallen by almost a quarter in the past decade, to 13,000 from about 17,000, forcing the department to rely heavily on subcontractors.
Representative Collin C. Peterson, a Minnesota Democrat who heads the House oversight subcommittee, pledged to hold hearings on the reports' findings.
Mr. Cisneros insisted that the severity of the problems outlined in the transition report would not interfere with his ability to implement new programs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A series of internal reports on operations within the Department of Housing and Urban Development warns about further scandals. During a tour with H.U.D. aides yesterday, Secretary Henry G. Cisneros, center, received a report on emergency shelters from a staff member, John B. Carson, left. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (55%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (55%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); ETHICS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (51%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (51%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CISNEROS, HENRY G (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



298 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: North Korea, Fighting Inspection, Renounces Nuclear Arms Treaty

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, March 12

 BODY:
North Korea, in a defiant move against international pressure to inspect its suspected nuclear weapons development program, announced this morning that it was withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to defend "its supreme interest."
The surprise announcement came just after the International Atomic Energy Agency gave North Korea a deadline of later this month to accept inspection of two buildings that the United States believes contain evidence of the extent of the bomb project. It marks a sharp reversal of course for the hard-line Communist government in Pyongyang, which had declared a new era of openness last year in an effort to save its desperate economy. 
 The abrupt decision, which took American officials in Asia by surprise, adds urgency to the Clinton Administration's biggest security challenge in the region. Several weeks ago the new chief of the Central Intelligence Agency, R. James Woolsey, said he believed that North Korea might be only months to a year or so away from producing its first atomic weapon.
Today's action appears to be the first time a nation has withdrawn from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a 1968 international agreement that is the mainstay of efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
The Japanese Government, in a statement this afternoon, condemned the decision as "a challenge to the nuclear nonproliferation regime itself" and said it "will have grave repercussions."
 
Preventive Measures
 The series of inspections, which have also been supported by Russia, and less enthusiastically by China, were regarded as the chief means of preventing North Korea from building a bomb. The country also has significant missile technology and has become a major exporter of weapons to the Middle East.
"It is an act of sheer desperation," a Western diplomat in Seoul, who has been active in the effort to force North Korea to back down from its weapons project, said this morning. "It is a frantic, self-destructive, and ill-advised move."
A statement issued by North Korea's state-run news service, and monitored in Tokyo, said that its decision to renounce the treaty -- and with it its obligations to allow inspectors into the country -- "is a well-justified self-defensive measure against the nuclear war maneuvers of the United States and the unjust act of the the International Atomic Energy Agency."
It also accused the United States of making "nuclear threats against North Korea" by staging a series of annual military maneuvers with South Korea. The maneuvers, known as "Team Spirit," involve more than 100,000 troops and began earlier this week.
It said that "we will never be frightened in the least" by the agency, which has told North Korea that if it failed to open its nuclear sites, the issue would probably be referred to the United Nations for possible sanctions.
 
Weeks of Accusations
 For weeks the North has accused the atomic energy agency of acting as a pawn of the United States and of manipulating the agency's intelligence gathered from American spy satellites. That intelligence has been the agency's chief evidence that North Korea was still hiding some facilities that might reveal how much plutonium the country has produced.
No one from the atomic energy agency, which is based in Vienna, could be reached for comment. However one Asian official familiar with the agency's workings said that he believed that "North Korea cannot get off the hook just by renouncing the treaty" because past inspections have already raised fears that an active bomb project may be under way.
Jeff Eller, a White House spokesman, said, "We are monitoring the situation carefully and have no further comment." Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman, declined to comment.
A Pentagon spokeswoman, Major Janet Reese, declined to comment on any possible effect the announcement might have on the "Team Spirit" exercises. Similar exercises were suspended last year "in recognition of the steps North Korea had taken to begin to resolve international concerns about its nuclear program," she said. But in October, after talks on inspections stalled, the United States and Korea announced that planning would begin for new exercises this spring.
In recent weeks, American officials have conceded they have little leverage over North Korea. The country is already deeply isolated, so economic sanctions would have little effect.
On Monday Kim Jong Il, the 51-year old head of the North Korean military and son of the nation's 80-year old leader, Kim Il Song, placed the country on what he termed a "semi-war footing," and announced that an attack from the United States and South Korea could come at any time during the military exercises.
The United States has said that the "Team Spirit" exercises, which began in 1976, are purely defensive. But this year it has also brought in for the first time the B-1B bomber and the F-117 fighter, in what many diplomats interpreted as a signal that the nuclear complex in the North could be reached in minutes.
North Korea's move was particularly surprising to American and Japanese officials, who believed that its government would drag along the inspection process rather than risk additional isolation by ending the process altogether. Pyongyang has repeatedly insisted that all of its nuclear activities are peaceful.
For a while, it seemed like tremendous progress was being made. Last year North Korea, which signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in 1985, finally allowed inspectors in for the first time.
But things began to sour when the atomic energy agency declared that it had found what it termed "inconsistencies" in its examination of the North's declared nuclear materials.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; TREATIES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (96%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



299 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-8
 
DEPUTIES CUT YELTSIN'S POWER
The Communist-dominated Congress in Moscow voted overwhelmingly to put sharp curbs on Boris Yeltsin's powers and to cancel a referendum he had hoped would give him a popular mandate for accelerating economic change. A1
 
A PARADOX FOR THE WHITE HOUSE
Watching the political turmoil unfold in Moscow, the Clinton Administration is caught between its desire to support Boris Yeltsin and its concern that he might take authoritarian measures to stay in power. A6
Japan invited Russia to economic talks to help Boris Yeltsin. A6
 
NORTH KOREA PULLS OUT OF PACT
North Korea, in a defiant move against international pressure to inspect its suspected nuclear weapons development program, says it is withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. A1
 
33 VIETNAMESE SLAIN IN CAMBODIA
At least 33 Vietnamese were killed and 26 were wounded by unidentified gunmen in Cambodia, the United Nations said. An official said the massacre bore all the characteristics of earlier Khmer Rouge killings of Vietnamese civilians.A3
 
RABIN SET TO MEET CLINTON
Israel's Prime Minister departed for the United States and his first meeting with President Clinton, which Israeli officials hope will settle questions about how deeply the new Administration intends to involve itself in the Middle East peace talks. A3
 
U.S. NAMES EMBARGO VIOLATORS
As part of a new effort to tighten the United Nations economic embargo on Yugoslavia, the Clinton Administration has begun to identify publicly foreign companies that are helping evade the trade restrictions. A8
In Paris, Serbia's leader was urged to pressure Bosnian Serbs. A8
The U.N. said fighting in Bosnia was hindering relief deliveries. A8
 
ITALIAN ENERGY CHIEFS ARRESTED
Italy's state energy conglomerate was rocked by a new wave of arrests that threw the country's third largest industrial group into chaos and intensified an increasingly vitriolic debate over the fate of political and business leaders. A6
 
Mogadishu Journal: G.I.'s hit the beach for R & R in Somalia. A4
 
National A10-17
 
ASPIN LENDS CALIFORNIA A HAND
Giving some help to California, an economically depressed and politically crucial state, the Defense Secretary has decided to spare two military installations that were on the armed services' list of those that should close. A1
Clinton announced a plan to aid displaced military workers. A14
Contractors are lobbying to keep existing military business. A14
A Senate panel cleared a bill for Clinton's economic plan. A12
NASA has begun a redesign to make the space station smaller. A12
The House rebuffed Clinton on AIDS immigration policy. A11
 
BEHIND BULLETPROOF WINDOWS
Abortion rights advocates view the slaying of a Florida abortion provider not as an isolated incident but as a kind of inevitable culmination of at least a decade of blockades, firebombings, chemical attacks and nighttime gunfire. A1
The Florida gunman has led an unstable life in recent years. A17
 
A CONCESSION FROM KORESH
The authorities said that three male adults had asked to leave the Branch Davidians' besieged compound near Waco, Tex., and that the sect's leader, David Koresh, had agreed to let them do so. A10
 
RENO TO ACT QUICKLY ON F.B.I.
Janet Reno won Senate confirmation as Attorney General and said one of her first tasks would be to decide whether to recommend to the President that William S. Sessions remain Director of the F.B.I. A10
 
RESEARCH PACT UNDER FIRE
The nation's largest nonprofit biomedical laboratory has granted a foreign drug company unusual powers over the conduct of federally financed research under a 10-year, $300 million contract, Government health officials said. A16
 
SCIENTIFIC FINDING ON LESBIANISM
Researchers said genes might play as strong a role in shaping female sexual orientation as they appear to do in dictating the sexuality of gay men. A11
 
'IT IS NOW FLESH AND BLOOD'
News analysis: Offering testimony damaging to the defense, a medical expert's appearance in court underscored the way Rodney G. King's own appearance had changed the dynamics of the Federal civil rights trial of four Los Angeles police officers. A10
 
Law Page B16
Hate-speech opponents and anti-pornography feminists are allied.
At the Bar: The battles over a much-disputed book.
A new publication for small-firm lawyers.
What ever happened to California's insurance rollback?
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CASE CLOSED ON WILLOWBROOK
Willowbrook, for decades a warehouse for the mentally retarded, is no longer a state school, virtually all the surviving residents live in group homes, and after 18 years court supervision has ended. A1
 
SUSPECT AND IMMIGRATION
When Mohammed A. Salameh, a suspect in the bombing of the World Trade Center, entered the United States, he quickly slipped through the immigration bureaucracy. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-30
Tricks of the video hunt. C1
Stalking the flower show. C3
Plan to save historical society. C3
Enticing Brooklyn audiences. C16
Evaluating laser-disk movies. C30
For Children C19
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"The Root." C13
Film: "Ethan Frome." C8
"CB4." C13
"A Far-Off Place." C15
Music: Sounds Around Town C15
Dance: A Cunningham romp. C10
Restaurants C24
Art: Max Ernst, gentle giant. C1
The Art Market C18
Greek sculpture at Met C20
Art in Review C28
Thomas Struth's photos. C20
 
Word and Image: Critic's Notebook C1
TV Weekend B14
Celibacy among priests. B14
 
Obituaries A19
C. Northcote Parkinson, British historian and writer.
Kevin Oldham, a pianist and composer.
 
Fashion B14
Watchwords of the week: cool, basic and casual.
 
Sports B7-13
Baseball: Torborg defends Bonilla. B11
Yanks' Stankiewicz faces uncertainty. B11
Basketball: B.C., Georgetown win in Big East tourney. B7
Nets upend Warriors. B13
Knicks' Smith gets vote of confidence. B13
Maryland defeats N.C. State. B9
Columns: Lipsyte on morality of male athletes. B7
On College Basketball B9
Vecsey on Phil Rizzuto. B11
Figure Skating: Canadians dominating world championships. B10
Football: Dennis Byrd returns to roots in Oklahoma. B7
Jets talking to Hostetler. B7
Reeves wants Banks to stay with Giants.B10
Hockey: Rangers beat Blackhawks. B9
Horse Racing: Her name is Eliza. B9
Sports People B10
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
Editorials
The death of Dr. Gunn.
Will Janet Reno run Justice?
The Korean peninsula heats up.
Letters
A. M. Rosenthal: The Syrian sanctuary.
Anthony Lewis: Right to life.
Anne Fausto-Sterling: How many sexes are there?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); FIREARMS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); AIDS & HIV (62%); SPACE STATIONS (60%); SPACECRAFT (60%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (60%); SPACE EXPLORATION (60%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



300 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIAN LEGISLATURE VOTES TO REDUCE YELTSIN'S POWERS AND ASSUME DOMINANT ROLE

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 11

 BODY:
The People's Congress voted overwhelmingly today to sharply curb President Boris N. Yeltsin's powers and to cancel a planned referendum next month that he had hoped would give him a popular mandate to accelerate economic change.
A final vote is expected Friday. But already this evening it was evident that the thousand deputies, elected three years ago under the Communist system, intended to reject any proposals put forth by Mr. Yeltsin and to assume more authority for themselves and for their chairman, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov. 
 Almost certainly, unless Mr. Yeltsin takes some extraordinary steps like abolishing the Congress and imposing military rule, moves he has threatened in past weeks, the Congress will act next month to sweep away the economic changes already announced and further reduce Mr. Yeltsin's authority.
 
Two Key Votes
 The President, in addition to publicly threatening unilateral action to defeat his opponents, privately asked Chancellor Helmut Kohl last week if the NATO allies would support such a step, according to European diplomats in Washington.
But Mr. Yeltsin, who came to power in late 1991 after leading the successful opposition to the coup against the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, seems headed for a humiliating setback.
On the second day of a special session, the Congress of People's Deputies, which has increasingly challenged Mr. Yeltsin's economic program, voted 623 to 252 in a preliminary ballot to limit his power by scrapping a power-sharing accord reached in December.
The Congress also canceled a referendum planned for April 11 that might have strengthened his authority by allowing the people to vote for a new Constitution with increased presidential powers.
 
Lacks a Constituency
 It was in part to strengthen Mr. Yeltsin's hand in the referendum that President Clinton agreed to a summit meeting on April 3-4 in Vancouver, British Columbia. It is now unclear what can be accomplished at those talks.
Although Mr. Yeltsin has been a fairly popular politician, he has not been able to organize any real political strength. He lacks a power base in the Congress and has no political party of his own. The Congress, which has many Communists, and others who dislike the evolving system have been much more effective political forces.
The stakes go considerably beyond simply who will wield power.
A government beholden to the conservative Congress would almost certainly roll back the changes pushed through under Mr. Yeltsin. Beyond that, Russia's semi-autonomous regions have threatened to break further with Moscow if they sense that the center is growing either weaker or more aggressive.
And there is no telling how the public, however apathetic it has been to the power struggle so far, would respond if the unpopular Mr. Khasbulatov made an open grab for the Government.
Mr. Yeltsin began the day with a powerful 11th-hour appeal for a negotiated resolution of the conflict, but left the hall in mid-afternoon in apparent dismay after the attacks culminated in a demand for his impeachment.
 
His Earlier Warnings
 "At this point I am asking myself, do the deputies realize what they are doing?" he asked in his opening address. "Do they realize what kind of responsibility they are assuming?"
In recent weeks, Mr. Yeltsin has repeatedly warned of his readiness to take extreme measures if the Congress continues to erode his power. Today his spokesman drew reporters' attention to the fact that on entering the hall, Mr. Yeltsin first greeted the Ministers of Defense, Security and the Interior.
Most deputies, however, have taken such intimations as bluff.
But there was little question of the dismay and anger among Mr. Yeltsin's lieutenants and supporters. "If the Congress follows the path charted by Ruslan Khasbulatov, it will ruin itself," declared Lev Ponomarev, a staunch reformer.
Mr. Khasbulatov himself, the chairman and Mr. Yeltsin's chief rival, seemed to relish his dominance. Commentators have speculated that his goal is to reduce Mr. Yeltsin to a ceremonial role and to give the Congress and himself control over the Cabinet.
 
Scorn From a Rival
 Taking the floor after both Mr. Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin had spoken, Mr. Khasbulatov declared that the "devil wrapped us round his finger" when the Congress approved the political truce last December.
Later, in an interview with the Interfax news agency, Mr. Khasbulatov gave even greater rein to his feelings, accusing Mr. Yeltsin of "pathological" urgings to destroy the legislative branch because of a "genetic link with Bolshevism."
Some of Mr. Yeltsin's supporters thought Mr. Khasbulatov was deliberately seeking to provoke the President into some rash act, which the Congress could then display as evidence that Mr. Yeltsin was seeking dictatorial powers.
But it was also evident that the Congress was resistant to any compromise. Whatever hope there had been that the new Constitutional Court and its chief justice, Valery D. Zorkin, might act as a referee faded today when Mr. Zorkin effectively threw his support to Mr. Khasbulatov.
 
Few Choices Left
 The feeling in the lobbies was that Mr. Yeltsin could either try to carry on and hope for some development to bolster his standing before the next session of the Congress, or fight back. In his address, he reiterated that he might still seek to put his case to the public.
Another option, indirectly but distinctly threatened by the President and his men in recent weeks, is to declare direct presidential rule with the backing of the security forces, though the risks are great and obvious.
There is also the possibility that the Congress would call new elections next year for both a President and a legislature. That has been pushed especially by Communists, who evidently believe that elections held when economic changes are causing the greatest pain would give them a chance.
Addressing the Congress at the start of today's session, Mr. Yeltsin maintained a conciliatory tone even as he noted that room for compromise was rapidly vanishing.
"There are fewer and fewer opportunities for reaching accord," he warned. He was in favor of strong presidential power, Mr. Yeltsin continued, not because he was President, "but because I am firmly convinced that without this, Russia will not be able to survive or revive its economy."
"Only a President chosen by the people can implement tough but necessary measures," he declared. "No reform can survive without these tough measures. Do deputies realize that neither the Congress nor the Parliament nor any other body are bold enough to implement these measures?"
Following Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Chernomyrdin rose to speak. A former Soviet Minister of Gas who was chosen as a compromise Prime Minister in December, he has been surprisingly supportive of Mr. Yeltsin.
After ranging through the familiar problems and challenges, he demanded that the Congress grant him and Mr. Yeltsin real power.
Then came Mr. Khasbulatov. With a tone that verged on insolence, he portrayed the legislators as the real victims in the conflict: "We keep working, toiling, but the members of the President's team, excuse my saying so, pose in front of microphones and make their charges against this and that. When will all this stop, I ask you, esteemed Boris Nikolayevich?"
The debate ranged on, and at the lunch break, Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Khasbulatov were dispatched to join the drafting committee in trying to form an agreement.
The document that emerged still abandoned the December agreement and canceled the referendum.
However it plays out, this session already stands as the most severe episode in the power struggle that has plagued Russia's attempts to instill democracy and a free market.
 
What the Congress Is
 Elected in March 1990, when Russia was still a republic of the Soviet Union and the Communists were still in power, the 1,041 members of the Russian Congress were second-stringers to the main Soviet Congress.
Ironically, it was the Russian Congress that catapulted Mr. Yeltsin back into politics by electing him its first chairman. But once Mr. Yeltsin was elected President and Russia became independent, the Congress quickly became his greatest millstone.
Under Mr. Khasbulatov, an economics professor initially raised to prominence by Mr. Yeltsin as a member of the Chechen ethnic minority, the Congress became a bastion of old Soviet habits. Without any serious party discipline, without a sense of responsibility or any strong internal leadership, the deputies increasingly came to focus largely on expanding their powers and fighting Mr. Yeltsin.
They did so for many reasons: some were die-hard Communists or nationalists unyieldingly opposed to Mr. Yeltsin; some genuinely shared a popular dissatisfaction with painful economic changes; many had no idea of parliamentary procedure and simply grabbed for whatever power they could. Only about a fifth proved to be consistent supporters of change.
Mr. Khasbulatov quickly learned to exploit this, and already by last April the Congress was openly challenging Mr. Yeltsin's program. By December, the legislators had amassed enough confidence to force the ouster of Mr. Yeltsin's chief economic adviser, Yegor T. Gaidar.
Stung, Mr. Yeltsin retaliated by calling for a national referendum. Though out-gunned in the Congress, he was far more popular in the country.
It was then that Mr. Zorkin, the chief justice, stepped in to mediate a compromise: The referendum would be held in April on a new Constitution, and in the meantime neither side would take any measures that would change the balance of power.
But soon Mr. Khasbulatov and other politicians began to question the usefulness of a referendum. Mr. Yeltsin, too, declared himself in favor of canceling the poll if another means could be found to end the conflict. Among those he proposed was a "power-sharing agreement" that delineated the separation of powers until a new Constitution could be written.
The problem was that the existing Constitution, a Soviet-era document riddled with conflicting amendments, undermined provisions for different branches of Government by declaring that the Congress was the supreme authority. Thus it was only the Congress that could legally dissolve itself or approve a new Constitution, neither of which the deputies were ready to do.
In the debate today, each side bitterly accused the other of violating the Constitution. Justice Minister Nikolai V. Fyodorov lambasted Mr. Khasbulatov in particular for many edicts and appointments for which there were no provisions in the law, including large disbursements from a "Fund for the Social Support of the Population."
Hard-line deputies countered with accusations against Mr. Yeltsin, and it was in this debate that one of these deputies, Mikhail Chelnokov, prompted Mr. Yeltsin to walk out by proposing impeachment proceedings.
Justice Zorkin, in a brief address, once again called on the President and legislature to "come to terms." But he made no reference to the fact that he had declared himself the legal guarantor of the December agreement.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Invitation From Japan
 TOKYO, March 11 (Special to The New York Times) -- Under pressure from the United States and other industrialized democracies, Japan said today that it had invited Russia to join a meeting this weekend of representatives of the seven countries attending a summit meeting here in July. It said it would use the session to discuss immediate actions to bolster President Yeltsin's efforts at change.
The move seemed to suggest a retreat by Tokyo from its stand against an emergency meeting this spring to discuss additional aid to Russia.
A Japanese official said tonight that while he did not expect specific pledges to come out of this weekend's session, in Hong Kong, "I think there is a recognition now that we have to come up with something concrete."
The Japanese were somewhat stunned by criticism by President Francois Mitterrand of France during his visit to the White House Tuesday. Japan has fought the idea of an early support meeting for fear it would undercut the significance of the Tokyo summit meeting in July. Japan has also resisted pressure to provide more aid until the long-running dispute over the islands seized by the Soviet Union in the closing days of World War II is resolved.
At a news conference with President Clinton, Mr. Mitterrand said, "Perhaps they, the Japanese, are not paying sufficient regard in this respect to the importance of events taking place mainly in Europe." Mr. Clinton, while not directly critical of Japan, also made it clear that July might be too late to help Mr. Yeltsin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Boris N. Yeltsin, left, facing his chief political opponent, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, chairman of the Congress of People's Deputies, on the second day of a special session that has heightened their rivalry (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A1); While inside the Congress of People's Deputies, delegates worked to limit the powers of President Boris N. Yeltsin, Communist demonstrators outside chanted in front of a flag of the former Soviet Union. (Reuters) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); SCHMEMANN, SERGE BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



301 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: 2 CALIFORNIA BASES SPARED FROM LIST OF MILITARY CUTS

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Throwing a bone to California, an economically depressed and politically crucial state, Defense Secretary Les Aspin has decided to spare two military installations there that had been on the armed services' list of those that should close, senior Pentagon officials said today.
But Mr. Aspin, ignoring pleas from dozens of lawmakers and communities nationwide, plans to recommend on Friday that about 30 other major installations be closed and as many as 150 other depots and smaller sites be consolidated or reduced. Acknowledging the importance of the base-closing issue, President Clinton visited a Maryland factory today and announced a plan to ease conversions from military to civilian manufacture. [Page A14.] 
 McClellan Air Force Base, a big installation near Sacramento, and the Monterey Presidio, a much smaller installation that is home to the military's Defense Language Institute, were spared from closing when Mr. Aspin decided that the "cumulative economic impact in an area already hard hit" would be too adverse to the community, a senior Defense Department official said.
 
Lobbying Is Fierce
 Since the armed services' recommendations for base closings became known last week, California's Congressional delegation has lobbied fiercely to persuade Mr. Clinton and Mr. Aspin to save military installations in a state where 17 installations employing 67,000 civilian and military workers are already being closed.
Despite Mr. Aspin's reprieve, at least eight other installations in California will be on the list the Defense Secretary will announce on Friday. Those include the Long Beach Naval Shipyard, El Toro Marine Air Station and March Air Force Base in Southern California, and five installations in the San Francisco Bay area, home of Representative Ronald V. Dellums of Oakland, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
The two installations spared have influential supporters. The Monterey Presidio is in the district formerly represented by Mr. Clinton's budget director, Leon E. Panetta. McClellan Air Force and Depot, which employs more than 30,000 civilian workers, is in the district of Representative Vic Fazio who, as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, helps find financing for his colleagues' re-election campaigns.
 
White House Comments
 Senior Defense Department officials said the White House's concern for California's economic problems weighed heavily in Mr. Aspin's decision.
"This is the most blatant political twist I've ever seen," said a senior Pentagon official. "The White House is concerned about the vote in California, and they are wrestling hard with the political fallout."
But George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said in an interview that while Mr. Clinton and Mr. Aspin had discussed the base-closing process in general, the President had not reviewed the Defense Secretary's final list.
Opponents of Mr. Aspin's recommendations will now focus their lobbying efforts on an eight-member Presidential commission headed by former Representative James A. Courter, Republican of New Jersey.
 
Next Deadline July 1
 The commission has until July 1 to accept the Pentagon's recommendations or alter the list of bases. Its decision will then go to President Clinton, who has until Sept. 1 to accept or reject them. If he approves them, the recommendations go to Congress.
During the last round of base closings in 1991, four communities mustered enough economic and intellectual evidence to save their bases: Fort McClellan in Alabama, the Navy's Orlando Training Center in Florida, Whidbey Island Naval Station in Washington and Moody Air Force Base in Georgia.
By resisting intense pressure the lawmakers and civic leaders have focused on the Pentagon this week, Mr. Aspin is showing a resolve to confront difficult political decisions at a time when the Administration is trying to sell its economic plan to Congress and the public.
Indeed, Mr. Aspin has warned that this round of base closings and consolidations would only bring the military's sprawling bases and ports in line with the last budget and troop cuts made by the Bush Administration. Troop reductions resulting from the new Administration's proposals to slash military spending will not show up in base closings until the next round, in 1995.
"Future changes will decrease force structure and will require more, not fewer, base closures than those I will recommend at this time," Mr. Aspin said in a memorandum to lawmakers on Wednesday.
Mr. Aspin pledged that his base-closing decisions would be "fair and objective" and will affect bases overseas harder than those at home.
"By downsizing in this way, we make resources available to allow us to do the right things in defense: maintain the quality of the people in uniform and maintain the technological edge of their weapons," Mr. Aspin's memo said.
Senior military officials said the armed services no longer needed the two installations in California that Mr. Aspin spared, but they are very important for political reasons.
McClellan Air Force Base, an aircraft repair facility near Sacramento employs about 31,000 civilian workers, or about 4 percent of the area's total civilian employment.
The Defense Language Institute on the Monterey Presidio teaches 3,000 students a year from the four military services in 20 foreign languages. The Army has proposed closing the institute and probably will contract with university language departments to fill the gap, a senior Army official said.
Pentagon officials said the language school was saved largely because adjacent Fort Ord was closed in the round of base closings two years ago. The closing of Fort Ord is expected to cost more than 14,000 military and 2,500 civilian jobs in the Monterey area, according to an analysis by Business Executives for National Security, a research organization in Washington.
The base-closing commission closed 34 bases and reduced or consolidated 48 other sites during its last round in 1991. The Pentagon operates 481 installations around the country. The military has closed scores of bases overseas in the past five years, but those do not need commission approval.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Military Cutbacks" lists base closings proposed by Defense Secretary Les Aspin. (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MCCLELLAN AIR FORCE BASE (CALIF); MONTEREY PRESIDIO (CALIF); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY BASES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NAVIES (78%); CLOSINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); TRENDS (71%); SHIPBUILDING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; ASPIN, LES (SEC) BILL CLINTON (79%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); JAMES A COURTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



302 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: $49 Million Deal Persuades CBS to Stay Tuned

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
After weighing offers to move elsewhere against $49.5 million in benefits from New York State and New York City, CBS Inc. has decided to keep its headquarters and studios in Manhattan for at least 15 years.
The announcement was made yesterday in the CBS Broadcast Center at 530 West 57th Street, which would be rebuilt to accommodate the new technology of high-definition television, taking advantage of sales-tax savings and lower-cost power. 
 Only a small part of the benefits, $2.5 million in real-estate tax savings, would be applied to the Ed Sullivan Theater on Broadway, at 53d Street, which CBS has bought and is renovating for David Letterman's use.
At a news conference in Studio 45, usually used for "The N.F.L. Today" broadcast, Mayor David N. Dinkins said: "We worked very hard with our partners in the state to keep CBS and its 4,600 jobs -- sorry, Mr. Letterman, 4,601 jobs -- in New York."
Before yesterday, there had been no hint, at least publicly, that CBS had any plans to depart. It seems almost inevitable that the new deal will raise the ante in economic benefit negotiations, as competing networks seek assistance to develop their own high-definition capability.
"The more we can do to encourage private industry to invest in new technology, the better," Mr. Dinkins said. Asked if this amounted to an invitation to ABC and NBC to come forward, he replied: "These are deal-by-deal circumstances. If it benefits the city, we'll talk. This doesn't mean we're saying, 'We have a bottomless pit. Come and get it.' "
Laurence A. Tisch, the chairman, president and chief executive of CBS, said the network had received "offers from various states" that "would have loved to use CBS or any network" as the nucleus of a broadcasting complex. But he would not name the states or disclose any particulars about such offers.
He added, "We never threatened the city that we were leaving."
Instead, Mr. Tisch said, he met 10 months ago with Barry F. Sullivan, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, and told him: "We want to stay here. Make us feel welcome here."
To do that, city and state officials offered $31 million in sales-tax waivers for new machinery and equipment, $12 million in energy savings through electricity furnished by the New York Power Authority and $6.5 million from real-estate tax savings.
In return, CBS is required to invest $300 million in building improvements, equipment and the development of high-definition television, known as HDTV. Over the life of the deal, officials expect to collect $1 billion in tax revenues from the continued presence of CBS.
 
Role as a Center for TV
 Gov. Mario M. Cuomo also emphasized the significance of maintaining New York City's role as a center for broadcast television and entertainment.
"To move something like CBS or a large part of its operations out of New York City is historically inappropriate," he said. "We need to keep our prominence in this field."
Mr. Tisch said network executives anticipated "more changes in the next 15 years than in the past 65 years" since the Columbia Broadcasting System was founded in New York City by William S. Paley.
"We're going to have to take this building and turn it into a facility for the 21st century," Mr. Tisch said about the broadcast center, a low red-brick building at 11th Avenue that was originally built as the Sheffield Farms Company pasteurizing plant.
 
'A Level Playing Field'
 Several hours after the CBS announcement, Julie Tarachow Hoover, the vice president of corporate projects at Capital Cities/ABC, said: "We would expect equitable treatment. We want a level playing field."
"We're all going to be gearing up for HDTV," she said. "That is an expense all of us will face. We have a much bigger presence in New York and we're facing identical, major expenses. We're talking tens of millions of dollars for one station and hundreds of millions of dollars for the network."
At NBC, Betty Hudson, senior vice president for corporate communications, said the network discussed its needs with state and city officials "on a continuing basis, with an eye on our own situation and the competitive environment." But she said it was too early to assess what issues might be raised by the CBS announcement.
 
A Threefold Goal
 Carl Weisbrod, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the goal of the deal was threefold: to keep CBS competitive, to help retain jobs and to encourage the production of television programs.
The deal "induces an investment in technology and live entertainment," Mr. Weisbrod said. "The benefits here are all geared to CBS production facilities, not Black Rock," he said, referring to the corporate headquarters tower on the Avenue of the Americas, between 52d and 53d streets.
Other recent economic benefit packages have included $106.2 million over 20 years for Prudential Securities, to keep its headquarters in Manhattan; $39.6 million over 10 years for the Morgan Stanley Group, to keep its headquarters in Manhattan and back offices in Brooklyn, and $29 million over 35 years to The New York Times, to build a printing plant in College Point, Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC; NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY CBS CORP (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC; NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAX CREDITS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; SALES TAX TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (86%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (83%); RELOCATIONS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); THEATER (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRENDS (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); TISCH, LAURENCE A ; DUNLAP, DAVID W DAVID LETTERMAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



303 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
The hard-charging General Motors executive responsible for trimming costs in the auto maker's supplier network will leave. He is expected to take a top post at Volkswagen. [Page D1.]
Bonds of the largest airlines -- American, United and Delta -- were downgraded to below investment grade. [D1.] Traders see considerable profit potential in the airline bonds. [D14.] 
 Glaxo Holdings' chief executive resigned unexpectedly, citing differences with the chairman over management. [D1.]
A Primerica deal to buy the Shearson brokerage business from American Express could be announced as early as today. [D2.]
Compaq will announce plans to sell computers through a telephone sales and mail-order unit, joining an industry trend. [D3.]
Marriott settled some bondholder opposition to its split into two companies by agreeing to issue new bonds and shift debt. [D3.]
Gulfstream's new president believes he can maintain sales despite declining military and corporate spending. [D3.]
Prudential Insurance might sell its reinsurance group after the industry had its worst year ever for property-casualty losses. [D3.]
The F.C.C. issued new customer-service rules for cable TV, intended to speed companies' response to complaints. [D3.]
National Semiconductor's earnings soared 85 percent in the third quarter, at the high end of Wall Street estimates. [D4.]
An official criticized a contract giving Sandoz of Switzerland wide power over Federally financed research. [A12.]
CBS will stay in Manhattan for at least 15 years, thanks to $49.5 million in New York State and New York City aid. [B1.]
Steven Hoffenberg said talks to buy The Post had broken down and that he could not assure the paper's survival. [B2.]
 
International
American discounters that revolutionized retailing are at it in Mexico now, underselling not only the department stores and specialty shops but sometimes even the street vendors. [D1.]
Japan's electronics industry claims American semiconductor companies failed to deliver chips ordered by Japan. [D1.]
The London Stock Exchange abandoned development of a costly computerized trade-settlement system. [D6.]
The Russian Congress voted to curb Boris Yeltsin's powers and to cancel a referendum on his economic reforms. [A1.]
Japan gave way to the urgings of other industrialized nations and invited Russia to a weekend Group of Seven meeting. [A6.]
Top executives of E.N.I., the Italian state energy conglomerate, were arrested in a widening corruption scandal. [A6.]
 
The Economy
Retail sales rose only modestly and new claims for jobless benefits climbed again in fresh signs of slackened growth. [D2.]
The troubled Commodity Exchange received a takeover proposal from the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange. [D6.]
A Senate panel prepared to approve the framework of a budget close to what the President had proposed. [A12.]
 
Markets
Stocks slipped after three straight sessions of record highs. The Dow declined 21.34 points, to 3,457.00. [D6.]
Platinum and palladium led metals higher amid fear of Russian unrest. Grains fell. [D13.] The dollar was mixed. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
S&K Famous Brands, a relatively obscure men's clothing retailer, has attracted analysts' attention with a solid balance sheet and a niche in the apparel industry. Market Place. [D6.]
Empire Kosher Poultry and its agency, Follis DeVito, have rankled a much-larger competitor with ads that parody those of Frank Perdue and his Perdue Farms. Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); SWITZERLAND (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); SWITZERLAND (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETAILERS (88%); TAKEOVERS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); REINSURANCE (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (70%); TRENDS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%); REFERENDUMS (65%); COFFEE (60%); SCANDALS (60%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (56%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (52%); 

PERSON: FRANK PERDUE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



304 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
IMMIGRATION MISSED BOMBING SUSPECT
When Mohammed A. Salameh, one of the two main suspects in the bombing of the World Trade Center, entered the United States as a temporary foreign visitor in 1987, he slipped through a Federal immigration bureaucracy that had no plan or hope of ever tracking him amid the nation's vast tide of illegal aliens. A1.
 
FOREIGN FUNDS TRACED TO GERMANY
The foreign funds wired over recent months into the New Jersey joint bank account of two arrested suspects in the bombing have been traced to Germany, law enforcement officials said. B5. 

Despite his eight years in America, the 25-year-old chemical engineer arrested this week remained a traditionalist, relatives said. B5.
 
THE END OF THE WILLOWBROOK ERA
For decades, Willowbrook State School on Staten Island was a barren warehouse for 6,000 mentally retarded people and came to symbolize everything that was wrong with the care of the mentally retarded, prompting sweeping reforms. The transformation to care in small group homes reached a final milestone: A U.S. District Judge has ended 18 years of federal court supervision over former Willowbrook residents. A1.
 
CAR THIEF DROPS OFF TINY PASSENGER
Moments after pushing a woman out of the front seat of a van and stealing the vehicle in Morningside Heights, the police said, a thief realized he had an unexpected passenger: an 8-month-old baby girl. B3.
 
RULING ON SHELTER FOR THOSE WITH H.I.V.
A New York Supreme Court judge has ruled that New York City must provide certain minimum standards in housing homeless people with H.I.V. who have symptoms of illness but do not yet have AIDS, a decision that advocates for the homeless say would force the city to remove this group from the city's shelters. B3.
 
TEACHER ARRESTED ON ASSAULT CHARGES
A substitute teacher has been arrested on assault charges after second-grade students in a Brooklyn elementary school told their parents the instructor had hit them with his hands and with a pointer, the police said. B3.
 
Rise in gay bias incidents reported. B6.
 
Police Commissioner Kelly has ordered the deployment of a limited number of patrol cars occupied by one officer. B6.
 
REGION
 
BRADY AIDS FLORIO BID
With his opponents on the ropes, Gov. Jim Florio pressed his campaign against assault firearms. Speaking from the Governor's office, James S. Brady, the White House press secretary who was paralyzed in 1981 by a bullet intended for Ronald Reagan, urged New Jersey to retain its ban on such weapons. B4.
 
ATLANTIC CITY CASINOS CO-OPTING BINGO
The triumphant cry of "Bingo!" is being heard these days in unfamiliar surroundings -- inside many of Atlantic City's gambling casinos. And that is bad news for organizations across the state that have depended on bingo to raise an estimated $35 million each year -- money that bought equipment for volunteer fire departments or sent children to summer camps. B4.
 
Our Towns by John Tierney B4
 
Chronicle B6

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Unemployment Insurance" tracks number of unemployed people in Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York who have exhaused their benefits. Graph runs monthly since the beginning of 1992. (Source: Labor Department in each state).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA NEWS BRIEFS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); VEHICLE THEFT (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); AIDS & HIV (87%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); MENTAL RETARDATION (73%); JUDGES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); GAMING (62%); GOVERNORS (57%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



305 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Names Trade Violators to Pressure Belgrade

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
As part of a new effort to tighten the United Nations economic embargo on Yugoslavia, the Clinton Administration has begun to identify publicly foreign companies that are helping Belgrade to evade the trade restrictions.
Other parts of the effort include offering patrol boats to Romania and Bulgaria for use in enforcing the embargo on the Danube, a major artery for trade in Eastern Europe, and sending teams of Treasury and State Department officials to work with European allies on cracking down on Serbian financial transactions and imports. 
 Last week, President Clinton said that Washington would tighten economic sanctions against the Serbian-dominated Yugoslav federation, describing the effort as being in part a response to new attacks by Bosnian Serbs against Muslims.
Administration officials declined to provide details at that time, but since then they have discussed elements of the plan. Today, the Administration released the names of 25 shipping companies, including companies in Cyprus, Malta and Panama, that it says are secretly controlled by Yugoslavia. An official notice has been issued by the Treasury Department to notify American firms of the list.
Companies found to have violated the ban repeatedly will be barred from conducting business with the United States. The officials said that Washington will urge its allies to ban business dealings with these companies.
"Yugoslavia has continued to trade through its maritime fleet in flagrant violation of U.N. sanctions," said R. Richard Newcomb, the director of the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. "The United States will deny the Serbs and Montenegrins any benefit of international commerce."
Serbia and Montenegro are the two remaining Yugoslav republics.
 
Banks Included
 A senior Administration official said that the United States is also planning to name banks and other companies in Western Europe that are controlled by the Serbs and have been helping Belgrade violate the trade ban.
The Administration also plans to identify companies that are not controlled by the Serbs but that have committed multiple violations of the trade ban for profit. Greek shipping companies, among other concerns, have regularly violated the trade ban, American officials have said.
With the Clinton Administration discounting any talk of military intervention in the Bosnian conflict, the American push to tighten economic sanctions has become the main point of leverage on the Serbs. The White House spokesman, George Stephanopoulos, has said that stepping up the enforcement of the sanctions will cause "real pain." Proponents of the plan have also cited reports of hyperinflation and bank failures in Yugoslavia as indications that the sanctions are beginning to bite.
The Serbian economy was shaken this week when Jezdimir Vasiljevic, the owner of the private Jugoskandic Bank, which had been attracting savings by paying high interest rates on hard currency deposits, fled to Israel. Since fleeing, Mr. Vasiljevic has asserted that Yugoslav leaders are funneling millions of dollars in state funds to private bank accounts abroad. Specialists believe that Belgrade banks have financed arms sales and have been involved in money-laundering, arms purchases and smuggling.
Some Western officials doubt that economic sanctions will be sufficient to convince Belgrade to stop supporting the Serbian nationalist forces in Bosnia. Specialists say that some of the measures in the Clinton plan, like appealing to Cyprus to tighten control over suspected Serbian financial transactions, were also undertaken during the Bush Administration, with limited effect.
To tighten the sanctions, Mr. Clinton sent a team led by Treasury Department officials to Cyprus, Germany and Austria to crack down on banks and trading companies helping the Serbs.
Cyprus, which has long been a banking center for Yugoslavs, has been a special concern for the United States, which believes that banks and trading companies there have been helping Serbia evade the embargo. Following the visit of the Clinton Administration team, the Central Bank of Cyprus said that it would step up its monitoring of financial transactions by local banks.
A State Department team visited European capitals to discuss ways to tighten the embargo. One major avenue for evading the embargo has been the Danube.
To help enforce the sanctions on the river, the United States is planning to provide patrol boats to the Romanians and the Bulgarians, following through on an offer that officials said was made by the Bush Administration.
Clinton Administration officials said the offer of the patrol boats had been accepted in principle. Some analysts believe that Romania has enough river patrol craft to enforce the sanctions and that they are saying they do not simply to avoid tough actions on enforcement.
The State Department has said that the Danube is less of a problem than the diversion of supplies from trains running through Serbia, carrying goods headed for other countries. The Clinton Administration has proposed ways to step up efforts to check those shipments.
The Administration is also increasing the number of American officials assigned to watch some of the overland routes into Yugoslavia. But Greece has refused to allow monitors to be stationed along its border.
The United States has also urged nations to impound ships that violate the embargo.


GRAPHIC: 
Chart: "Balkan Update"
 
Washington
Photo: A young Bosnian Serb girl leading a funeral procession in the northern village of Trnopolje for a soldier killed in fighting with Muslim forces. (Reuters)
As part of an effort to tighten sanctions against Yugoslavia, the Administration has begun to release the names of foreign firms and front companies that are helping Serbia evade an economic embargo. Other parts of the effort include offering patrol boats to Romania and Bulgaria for use in enforcing the embargo on the Danube.
 
 
Paris
Serbia's President met with President Francois Mitterrand and with the two principal mediators, who urged the Serbian leader to persuade Serbs in Bosnia to accept their peace plan. He called for an end to the sanctions and proposed an immediate cease-fire.
 
 
United Nations
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said continued fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina was blocking half of the agency's weekly target of 8,000 tons of relief supplies to more than 2 million needy people, or half the prewar population in Bosnia.
 
 
Geneva
The International Committee of the Red Cross said it had reached an agreement with all three factions in Bosnia under which they are to release remaining prisoners of war, estimated at 2,757, this month.
 
 
Konjevic Valley, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Eleven peacekeepers and their vehicles were blocked by a Muslims who were protesting against a Serbian condition that only wounded women, children and elderly men be evacuated from the area.
 
Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina, showing locations of major cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (94%); ROMANIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); BULGARIA (89%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CYPRUS (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); GREECE (72%); MALTA (57%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (59%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (59%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; ROMANIA; BULGARIA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (94%); ROMANIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); BULGARIA (89%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CYPRUS (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); GREECE (72%); MALTA (57%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); TRENDS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); RELIGION (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



306 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs Yeltsin but Fears He Might Oust Legislature

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
As it watches the unfolding political turmoil in Moscow, the Clinton Administration is caught between its desire to support President Boris N. Yeltsin and its concern that he might take authoritarian measures to stay in power.
In strong statements of support in recent days, President Clinton has portrayed Mr. Yeltsin as the best hope for economic and political reform in Russia and has promised to "do what we can" to help him succeed. 
 But American officials are increasingly uncertain about Mr. Yeltsin's future, and Mr. Yeltsin complicated their thinking last week by telling Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany during a brief stopover in Moscow last week that he might dissolve the Russian Parliament and assume emergency powers to defeat his political opponents.
Mr. Yeltsin had said the same thing publicly. But European officials here said that in private, he asked Mr. Kohl whether the United States and the other major industrialized nations would support him if he were forced to take extraconstitutional action. Mr. Kohl then wrote letters to Mr. Clinton and other heads of state from the Group of Seven industrialized democracies passing on Mr. Yeltsin's position, the officials said.
American officials said they did not take Mr. Yeltsin's comments as a direct threat to assume emergency powers, but viewed them as a bargaining move, perhaps intended to heighten concern for his future among his Western supporters. Still, that put the Western powers in an uncomfortable position.
The officials said Mr. Clinton has not responded to Mr. Kohl's letter, and a Western Ambassador said: "As far as I know, none of the G-7 have replied to the message. None of us dares to say anything. We all know that the Russian Congress is anti-democratic and unrepresentative, but you can't run around saying 'Let's dissolve Parliament.' "
In a whirlwind of activity in recent weeks to bolster Mr. Yeltsin's standing, Mr. Clinton has scheduled a summit meeting with the Russian leader, offered an increase in direct American aid and called for an early meeting of the Group of Seven to consider new financing for Russia.
But Mr. Yeltsin appears to have suffered a humiliating political defeat that would strip him of much of his authority before he and Mr. Clinton meet in Vancouver next month, putting Mr. Clinton in a situation that in some ways echoed the problem President Bush faced with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union.
During the campaign last April, Mr. Clinton criticized Mr. Bush for failing to distance himself from Mr. Gorbachev before his fall from power, and a senior Administration official said that Mr. Clinton does not want to embrace Mr. Yeltsin too tightly.
"Here is the dilemma we all have here," a senior Administration official said. "Obviously the previous Administration got into some trouble for overpersonalizing the relationship, and a lot of people have made invidious comparisons between Bush's support for Gorbachev and Clinton's support for Yeltsin."
But the official added, "There is no way you can divorce Yeltsin as a personality from the state and future of reform in Russia."
Mr. Clinton himself revealed the difficult choices he faces today when, during a photo session, he praised the Russian leader, then admitted that he could not predict the future.
Asked whether Mr. Yeltsin was going to survive, Mr. Clinton avoided giving a direct answer. He said: "I think that he is the duly elected President of Russia and a genuine democrat -- small 'd' -- and that he is leading a country that is trying bravely to do two things, one, escape from Communism into market economics, a world they never lived in before, and second, to preserve real democracy. That's a tough job. Pretty hard to do here.
 
'I'm Not a Seer'
 "I intend to do what I can to be supportive of that process, and to be supportive of him while he serves as President of Russia," he said. "You know, I don't know what else to tell you. I'm not a seer."
Senior Administration officials sought to play down the significance of the Kohl missive, saying that Mr. Yeltsin has already warned the Russian Parliament publicly that he may have to take emergency measures. They said that Mr. Kohl was not in a position to be an intermediary between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin, and that the main purpose of the letter was to discuss the urgency of quick action by the Group of Seven to move quickly to help Russia reschedule its debt.
"Yeltsin has notified the Parliament of that, the world of that," said one senior official, who dismissed the threat as "part of his psychological warfare." The official added that the American Embassy in Moscow was reporting today's developments "with some relief, suggesting that the confrontations may be easing a bit and that there may be a compromise in the works."
 
Discussion of Aid Program
 As a direct result of Mr. Kohl's letter, the seven G-7 nations -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- plan to discuss an outline of an aid program for Russia at their regular meeting scheduled this weekend in Hong Kong, American and European officials said.
At the urging of the United States, the countries have invited the Russian Deputy Prime Minister, Boris Fyodorov, to attend in the hope that they can craft a strategy before the annual meeting of the group's heads of state in Tokyo in July.
The current political crisis in Moscow has aggravated a deep debate within the Central Intelligence Agency and among the other American intelligence agencies on whether Mr. Yeltsin and the entire reform movement can survive, according to senior intelligence officials. The most pessimistic view is articulated in recent classified reporting by the Defense Intelligence Agency that concludes that Mr. Yeltsin is a cornered man who has no control over his destiny.
"The thinking spans the spectrum," said one senior intelligence official. "The worst case scenario is that Yeltsin is getting weaker by the day and that there is going to be a right-wing coup that will throw Russia back to authoritarian rule, to the other end where people are saying, 'Oh, they're going to be able to work it out and democracy and economic reform is gaining and irreversible.' "
 
New Doubts in Washington
 The cracks that have existed for some time within the intelligence agencies are beginning to be reflected -- albeit not as visibly -- among policy makers as well. "I still think he is going to make it," said one senior Administration official, with less certainty than a few weeks ago. "What happens in Russia is that you go to extremes before you go back to stability."
Mr. Clinton so far does not face the political pressure to back away from Mr. Yeltsin that Mr. Bush endured.
But behind the official Administration support is a realization that the United States, either alone or with its Western partners, cannot change the course of Russia's history.
"We are not making any assumptions about what will happen," Secretary of State Warren Christopher told reporters after the Russian Congress voted to eliminate some of Mr. Yeltsin's power and canceled a national referendum he had sought to win public support. "It's a very dynamic situation. The end of the story has not been written."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a day when the Congress of People's Deputies solidified its stance against President Boris N. Yeltsin, members huddled to plot strategy. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



307 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Offers Plan to Help Military Plants to Convert

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LINTHICUM, Md., March 11

 BODY:
Using a factory that is converting from military to civilian goods as a backdrop, President Clinton today announced a plan to help such plants retool and to retrain displaced workers.
Mr. Clinton's plan would combine new money with funds already available, and new ideas with approaches that have already been developed, on converting plants that supply the military to civilian uses. 
 The President's conversion plan would also include early retirement for military personnel with more than 15 years of service, make grants and loans for new businesses and speed environmental cleanup on closed installations.
"It has been said that while change is certain, progress is not," Mr. Clinton said at the Westinghouse Electronic Systems Group, which lost nearly a third of its work force as a result of canceled contracts and an industrywide downturn. "And that certainly is true when it comes to the challenge of meeting the national economic goals that we have in the face of cutbacks in military spending."
In the near term, the President said the Government would release $1.7 billion in money already appropriated by Congress for retraining and other programs. Some of that money is contained in the economic plan now being debated in Congress, which calls for spending $20 billion over the next five years for worker retraining, community development in hard-hit areas and the improvement of the nation's infrastructure, including roads, bridges, water treatment plants and high-speed trains.
White House officials said some of $1.7 billion is also counted as part of the technology initiative the President announced last month or is part of the existing Pentagon budget.
White House officials sought to present today's announcement as revolutionary. And the setting for the President's speech, a suburban white-collar factory, was seen by the White House as a perfect example of the Administration's intent -- even though Mr. Clinton had announced the $1.7 billion in defense conversion spending when he was in California last month to promote his economic plan.
 
Base Closings
 The President's helicopter trip to suburban Maryland was intended to bolster the Administration's weeklong effort to divert attention from the Pentagon's imminent announcement of a new round of military base closings.
Mr. Clinton's aides have said the President will have no direct involvement in deciding which bases to close until July 1, when an independent commission is scheduled to send its recommendations to the White House. But the public relations offensive has already begun.
On Saturday, Mr. Clinton plans a round of private interviews with reporters from Connecticut, Texas and California, the states that would be most affected by the proposed closings.
 
Help 'to Compete and to Win'
 As the President was shown electric cars, security systems and radar-equipped airplanes at the plant here, he was accompanied by Defense Secretary Les Aspin, several other members of his Cabinet and members of Congress.
"All the worker training in the world and all the community assistance in the world will do no good if there are no jobs for those workers and no businesses for those communities," the President said. "The private sector is the engine of lasting economic growth in our system, and therefore our plan must help our companies to make these transitions, to compete and to win."
Later in the day, Mr. Clinton sought to make the link between cutting military spending and using those savings to help cut the deficit as well as to finance some social programs.
In a speech delivered to the Children's Defense Fund in Washington, he asked people who normally demand more from the Government to support him in telling Congress that they must accept the spending cuts he has proposed as well as the increases aimed at stimulating the economy.
"The people that are attacking me act like anybody that wants any money from the Government just loves all that bureaucracy you have to put up with," he said. "I know better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After returning yesterday from a trip to Westinghouse Electronic Systems Group in Maryland, President Clinton, left, walked with Defense Secretary Les Aspin on the South Lawn of the White House. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS CO LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); CREDIT LAYOFFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); HELICOPTERS (60%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); TRAINS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



308 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Up Slightly As Jobless Claims Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Fresh signs of slackened economic growth emerged today as the Government reported that retail sales rose a modest three-tenths of 1 percent in February and that new claims for jobless benefits climbed again in the week ended Feb. 27.
Sales were held back by a 2.2 percent drop in sales by automotive dealers, and there might have been no gain at all, analysts said, without price increases in building materials and some other items. The price of lumber soared 90 percent from early October to the end of February, reflecting increased demand brought on by the economic recovery and environmental battles that have sharply curtailed supplies from Federal lands.
 
Apparent Contradiction
 The 25,000 rise in jobless claims, to 376,000, was the third in a row and something of a surprise in light of last Friday's report of substantial job growth for February. That earlier report on employment conditions was conducted during the week ended Feb. 13. 
 Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities, said today's reports seem "to fit with the hypothesis that the economy slowed in the second half of February."
It has been widely expected that the economy will throttle down this quarter from its strong 4.8 percent growth rate in the final three months of 1992. Job growth continues to lag, and consumers are restraining spending as they pay holiday bills and face smaller tax refunds this year after President George Bush ordered withholding reductions last year to spur the economy.
Analysts also say President Clinton, in disclosing his plans for the economy on Feb. 17, may have soured consumer attitudes with calls for sacrifice and higher taxes.
"Growth in consumption spending has slowed somewhat" following the fourth-quarter surge, said David L. Cohen, an economist at MMS International, a California company that provides information and analysis. Gains for four straight months in industrial production have relied heavily on automobile assemblies, he said, and this probably cannot be sustained unless sales, now weak, pick up soon.
Cars and trucks represent 21 percent of retail sales, which last month totaled $167.79 billion.
 
Impact of Lumber Sales
 Excluding the automotive group, the retail sales report showed a nine-tenths of 1 percent advance, better at first glance than had been anticipated. But closer inspection showed that the biggest gain was 3.3 percent for dealers selling building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes.
Much of this increase reflected higher prices resulting from extra demand for lumber in states battered by Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki as well as crimped lumber supplies.
The Commerce Department revised January sales to show no change instead of the initial three-tenths of 1 percent gain. The December jump, however, was revised upward to 1.1 percent from eight-tenths of 1 percent -- showing an even better Christmas season.
The February sales gain was the sixth in eight months. Tracy Mullin, president of the National Retail Federation, said, "A modest increase is better than no increase at all."
The February gain resulted from a seven-tenths of 1 percent jump in sales of nondurables that was not entirely offset by a five-tenths of 1 percent decline for cars and other durable goods, items designed to last at least three years.
Sales of furniture and home equipment declined by five-tenths of 1 percent from their January level.
 
Clothing Sales Down
 In nondurables, the only decline was among stores selling apparel and accessories. They suffered a 1.7 percent skid, after a smaller decline in January.
"We're still making progress," said Robert L. Marks, president of SOM Economics in New York. He noted that the February-to-February sales increase was 5.3 percent.
Today's Labor Department report on jobless claims showed them rising to their highest level since early November. The figures tend to be highly erratic, despite adjustments for normal seasonal variation.

GRAPHIC: Graph: 'Retail Sales' shows retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from Sept. 1991 through Feb. 1993 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); CHRISTMAS (70%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); MOBILE HOMES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



309 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Military Industry Lobbies to Preserve Status Quo

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
While President Clinton unveiled his program today to retrain workers displaced by cuts in Pentagon spending, the nation's big military contractors were lobbying to keep their businesses intact.
The military industry welcomed President's Clinton's announcement that the Government would swiftly release $1.7 billion in money already appropriated by Congress to help retrain military workers and provide money to communities hurt by the closing of military bases. 
 Mr. Clinton wants to spend $20 billion over five years for retraining and other programs.
 
Conversion Seen as Hard
 But industry trade associations say it will be difficult for many companies to shift into consumer markets, and they argue that the country needs to preserve the industrial base for crucial military production.
To that end, they are pressing Congress and the Administration for export subsidies to increase foreign military sales, more favorable payments on remaining Pentagon contracts and greater freedom to use technology developed with Government money without paying royalties.
"It's difficult for our industry to convert," said Don Fuqua, president of the Aerospace Industries Association. "We can build a better commercial airplane, a more fuel-efficient airplane. But we can't make pies and cakes. That market is filled."
The big military contractors say the industry still hopes to find new lines of high-tech military work. They are pressing for a bigger slice of the $25 billion in work now conducted at Federal laboratories, as well as more of the $11 billion in maintenance and modernization done on ships and planes at military depots.
They are also asking the Pentagon to roll back some of its elaborate auditing practices and rigid technical specifications when buying equipment, and to buy more equipment designed for both commercial markets and military purposes.
The Electronics Industries Association is lobbying for legislation to create several billion dollars in new loan guarantees to support purchases of American weapons by foreign governments. Similarly, it and the Aerospace Industries Association support eliminating export restrictions on sales of jet aircraft and helicopters to countries like China.
"If we're in a situation where countries are going to buy arms anywhere and we're not going to be able to control that through multilateral dealings, then it's in our best interest to be competitive," said Dan C. Heinemeier, a vice-president at Electronics Industries Association.
The prospect of increased arms exports disturbs some military experts who warn that Government subsidies would worsen the global arms race. They also note that many seemingly burdensome contract requirements were adopted in response to scandals in the last decade.
"I think our weapons sales are already outrageously high," said Lawrence J. Korb, a military analyst at the Brookings Institution who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense under President Reagan. "I think we ought to be slowing down arms sales in the world."
He also noted that many of the rules were installed in response to scandals over high-priced hammers and toilet seats during the 1980's.
"I'd just love to relax controls on these guys, but they just seem to go from one scandal to another," he remarked.
The big military contractors also face a fight with the big Government-owned laboratories, which are also scrambling for work in an era of reduced spending on weapons. "Clearly, excess capacity exists in both the public and private sectors," noted a recent report by the Electronics Industries Association.
Converting military businesses to peacetime work is emerging as an important component of Mr. Clinton's technology policy.
The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency is being given a broader mandate to invest in commercial technologies, while the big weapons laboratories operated by the Defense Department and Department of Energy are being ordered to work more closely on joint research projects with industry.
 
New Purchasing Rules Sought
 Both the White House and big military contractors also agree that the Pentagon purchasing rules should be changed to allow heavier reliance on dual-use technologies, like computers and radars that were developed for commercial customers but can fill military needs. Some leading Congressional Democrats also agree that it would be unwise to let the nation's military contractors simply atrophy.
"The defense budget can't be a jobs program, but we can certainly help these companies acquire the flexibility to survive in a post-cold war economy," said Senator Jeff Bingaman, the New Mexico Democrat who heads the Senate Subcommittee on Defense Industry and Technology and sponsor of legislation last year that supplies money for military conversion programs.
"I think that its in our best interest to keep these companies strong, and to keep the talent and the competence they have put together."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ARMS SALES ABROAD; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (88%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); ARMS RACE (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (68%); EXPORT CONTROLS (68%); HELICOPTERS (67%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



310 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Foes of Pornography and Bigotry Join Forces

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 11

 BODY:
Treading close to what critics consider the land of the thought police, some legal scholars are joining together to fight against images they believe should never be produced and words they believe should never be spoken.
They are feminist opponents of pornography and scholars of hate speech who, after years of pursuing their work alone and often with frustration, have joined forces in a search for a legal framework to strengthen both causes. 
 It is an alliance that follows a decade of near-victories and setbacks in court, and deep divisions among women as to what the feminist position should be in either fight.
 
Violence and Pornography
 The alliance is in its early stages and appears dominated by the anti-pornography wing of the feminist movement, a group that regards pornography as the cause and primary cultural symbol of violence against women.
The alliance is deeply at odds with some mainstream feminist groups that fear that attacking pornography is a fringe exercise that detracts from bigger battles like pay equity, child care and abortion rights, while potentially threatening women's own right to free sexual expression.
The two feminist schools are so polarized that they are barely on speaking terms and, in the words of Patricia Ireland, president of the National Organization for Women, "cannot even agree to disagree."
So the anti-pornography feminists have reached out to scholars of hate speech to broaden their constituency and perhaps more effectively test society's limits on protected speech and expression.
 
Harm vs. Free Speech
 They see it not as a First Amendment issue but as a question of harm and equal rights. At the core of their argument is the idea that both pornography and hate speech inflict harm not only on the individual taunted by the words or participating in the photo shoot but on all minorities or women in a kind of "collective defamation."
The goal of the new alliance is to fight hate speech and pornography through laws that would permit victims to seek damages against speakers of bigotry or producers of pornography by showing how the hateful speech or images have harmed them.
Neither side of the alliance has fared well in the courts. Anti-pornography laws drafted by Andrea Dworkin, a writer, and Catharine MacKinnon, a University of Michigan law professor, were considered or adopted in cities like Minneapolis, Indianapolis and Los Angeles, but they were either defeated by lawmakers or overturned by courts on the ground that they violated the First Amendment guarantee of free speech.
Last year, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a St. Paul hate-crime ordinance banning cross-burnings was unconstitutional. And hate-speech codes of the University of Michigan and the University of Wisconsin were overturned in lower courts.
The two groups sat down together for the first time at a conference at the University of Chicago Law School last weekend. It was a gathering of anti-pornography intellectuals, hate-speech theorists and constitutional scholars seeking sustenance and common ground.
"This was a historic moment that saw feminists and racial minorities come together," said Richard Delgado, a professor of law at the University of Colorado who is a specialist in hate speech. "Before it seemed as if gains for one could only be made at the expense of the other. This time they linked arms in a common venture against a hate directed at both of them."
 
Common Focus
 Ms. Dworkin described pornography and hate speech as very deeply related. "Harm is the central issue in both," she said. "Both require a showing of harm in order to do anything about them. In other words, how are people dehumanized by these expressions of hate?"
Though the two groups share this common focus on harm, there are significant legal differences between them. Those seeking to limit hate speech have supported criminal laws simply outlawing extreme expressions of racial or religious hatred. Those seeking to limit pornography, however, do not seek a criminal ban on pornography, but rather to allow women to seek damages and injunctions against the makers of pornography that causes harm.
Recently, the anti-pornography wing has won a few notable converts from the mainstream, including Ellie Smeal, president of the Fund for a Feminist Majority, who appeared on several panels at the conference.
In a telephone interview today, Ms. Smeal said: "I am not going to just sit here and ignore it any longer. The violence toward women is there, everywhere. It is bubbling up. It is the No. 1 question I am asked after a speech. Free speech is being used to protect the violence."
Mindful of the implications, she said, "I don't want a police state. I don't want censorship. But to do nothing, to not enter out of fear is wrong. We have to get beyond, 'We can't do anything,' and do something."
There were few dissenters at the conference, which at times had the atmosphere of a revivalist meeting, where group harm was the incantation.
Leanne Katz, executive director of the National Coalition Against Censorship, an umbrella group of First Amendment advocates, attended the conference as an outsider looking in, worried that the new alliance could ultimately threaten what she sees as free speech. "It seems a criminal diversion of energies," she said of the movement. "To say that pornography threatens women makes us think there is some kind of quick fix. It worries me greatly."
Civil libertarians see this as a reactionary movement closer to Jesse Helms than Susan B. Anthony. "Mac Kinnon gives this whole enterprise a superficial gloss of intellectual respectability," said Marjorie Heins, director of the Arts Censorship Project of the American Civil Liberties Union. "Their rhetoric is religious in its character and its highly charged incantatory."
 
A Litmus Test
 The debate has turned pornography into a litmus test for feminism. "This kind of issue has produced terrible polarization, the kind that says, 'How can you think this and say you support women?' " Ms. Ireland said.
Virtually all feminists agree that pornography is detrimental to women. "Where we come to verbal blows is over the solution," Ms. Ireland said, adding that there was an important distinction between pornography and erotica."
Ms. Ireland envisions a campaign to make the consumption of pornography seem philistine and unenlightened, as humiliating and socially unacceptable as smoking has become.
The anti-pornography forces say such broad strokes are not enough. They bristle at the comparisons to right-wing-religious-fundamentalists and argue that pornography is neither narrow nor peripheral but the basis of women's inequality.
"Women won't be able to get economic equity as long as we're seen as pieces of meat," Ms. Dworkin said. "Pornography determines our economic worthlessness. It is a really a form of colonialization of the woman's body. It is the equivalent of land. The people who own it are men."
Those who agree with Ms. Dworkin take great comfort in a decision last year by the Supreme Court of Canada that defined pornography as sexual depictions of violence that harm women by dehumanizing and degrading them.
Kathleen Mahoney, the law professor who argued the case, said the decision stopped looking at obscenity as a moral question and analyzed it instead in terms of the harm it does.
 
Goal of Persuasion
 Hate-speech experts agree with that analysis. "We have to persuade society and the courts that the harm of scathing speech and the well-being of women is sufficient to overcome the usual presumption that speech should be free," Mr. Delgado said.
Leaders of the anti-pornography movement are longing for an actual case to bring to court.
"We don't have a plaintiff who's actually suing to say, 'This is how pornography hurt me or how I was used by pornography,' " Ms. Dworkin said. "It would be much stronger movement if it broadened from the academy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrea Dworkin, a writer and feminist, who helped to draft proposed laws that were aimed at eliminating pornography. The laws were defeated on grounds that they violated the First Amendment guarantee of free speech. Ms. Dworkin sat in her study yesterday in Park Slope, Brooklyn. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); Patricia Ireland, president of National Organization for Women, said the two schools of feminism "cannot even agree to disagree." (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (83%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (83%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; FEMINIST MOVEMENT; FREEDOM OF SPEECH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FIRST AMENDMENT (US CONSTITUTION); BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); CENSORSHIP ; WOMEN FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); WOMEN (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (88%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); OBSCENITY (77%); HATE CRIME (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CENSORSHIP (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LIBEL & SLANDER (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); ORDINANCES (69%); DAMAGES (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: DWORKIN, ANDREA; IRELAND, PATRICIA ; WILKERSON, ISABEL PATRICIA IRELAND (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



311 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Profit Is Seen in Airline Junk Bonds

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Some traders and portfolio managers said yesterday that they saw considerable potential for profit in the bonds of the nation's three major airlines, even though Standard & Poor's had declared them junk bonds.
Prices on the bonds fell after S.& P. lowered the rating on the debt of the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines; the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, and Delta Air Lines Inc. to below investment grade -- the junk-bond level. 
 "We have done our homework and we believe this is an opportunity to buy," said Geoffrey Kurinsky, a vice president at Massachusetts Financial Services in Boston, who has confidence that the airlines have stabilized their problems.
An executive at a major underwriter, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added, "There is a large universe of accounts waiting to buy."
 
Companies 'Will Survive'
 Max Holmes, a senior bond analyst at Salomon Brothers, agreed that this was a buying opportunity because "I think all three companies will survive."
But he said that because Moody's Investor Services had not changed the ratings of the three, still carrying them as investment grade, much of the expected selling might not come until these ratings were lowered. That would be the better time to buy, he said.
Pension funds and insurance companies that are not allowed to own noninvestment grade bonds would be required to sell, he said, adding that with a split rating that now exists, many of these investors might be able to hold on for the time being.
Mr. Holmes also said that a downgrading by Moody's could be a blow to Delta because it had $441 million of employee stock ownership plan notes it could have to buy back from the holders if the two credit agencies lowered it to noninvestment grade.
Mr. Kurinsky said that yesterday's move had been expected in the market and that "nothing really has changed because the downgrading was priced into the bonds."
Given the new BB ratings and the current spreads between the yields on Treasury securities and the yields on airline bonds, Mr. Kurinsky said the yields on the airlines were quite attractive compared with other noninvestment-grade paper.
 
Cable vs. Airlines
 For example, he said that the yield on BB-rated cable television company bonds was around 9.5 percent, while the yield on Delta's bonds, which has the widest spread over Treasury yields of the three airline issues, would be around 10.25 percent. Mr. Holmes argued that this comparison was a little stretched because the airline industry and its bonds were so much more volatile than the cable industry so the yield on airlines should be higher.
Immediately after the afternoon announcement, the yields offered on all three airlines rose by about 20 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, as prices of their bonds fell. But there were no buyers right away.
Later, there were a few trades and the yields rose. By late in trading, it appeared that Delta had fared the best while AMR had fared the worst for the day. This is because there had been a possibility that AMR would not be downgraded while the debt of the two other airlines would. The possibility that AMR might avoid a downgrading is one reason why the spread between AMR 30-year bonds and Treasuries was much narrower than the spread for Delta.
According to Mr. Kurinsky, the spread on AMR widened by about 50 basis points after the announcement while the spread on UAL moved by about 30 basis points and the spread on Delta moved about 25 basis points.
In the corporate bond market, the performance of bonds is generally measured by the spread between the yields on comparable Treasury securities and the yields on the corporate bonds. As the spread narrows, the corporate bonds are doing well and gaining in value but as they widen they are not.
 
Marriott Bonds Jump
 In another closely watched bond story, the bonds of the Marriott Corporation jumped sharply in value after it was announced that the company had agreed to some changes in its plan to split into two companies -- a move that had angered bondholders. The yield on the 10 percent bonds due in 2012 dropped to 9.65 percent, from 10.25 percent Wednesday, a 6 percent move in one day.
The major deal in the corporate bond market yesterday was a sale of $900 million, $300 million each, in 5- , 10- and 30-year bonds by the Lockheed Corporation. The lead manager was the First Boston Corporation. The yield on the 5-year bond was 5.99 percent, or 80 basis points over the 5-year Treasury note; the yield on the 10-year bond was 6.87 percent or 92 basis point over the 10-year Treasury note and the yield on the 30-year bond was 7.91 percent, or 117 basis points over the 30-year Treasury bond.
 
Treasury Market
 Prices of Treasury securities bounced around again yesterday as traders and investors awaited the Labor Department's report on inflation today and possibly some indication of what direction the market should be moving in.
In a day of trading that was punctuated by economic reports on retail sales and jobless claims that showed that the economy might have been weaker than expected at the end of February, the price of the 30-year bond dropped 5/32 , to 10421/32 , and the yield rose to 6.76 percent, up from 6.75 percent Wednesday. The price of the 10-year and 5-year Treasury notes also declined, while the price of the 3-year note rose slightly.
The report on the Producer Price Index due out today and the Consumer Price index to be released on Wednesday could determine whether prices will move higher in the near future with yields resuming their decline.
Traders and investors are worried now that these two reports might show that inflation is a little higher than expected. If this is the case and the rate of inflation this year looks like it will be higher than 3 percent, the rally in the bond market that brought the yield on the 30-year bond to its lowest level since 1977 could be over for the time being.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from 12/92 to 3/93 (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); UAL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; STANDARD & POOR'S INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); AMR CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; STANDARD & POOR'S INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CORPORATE BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CREDIT; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS (CORPORATE) HIGH YIELD BONDS (93%); AIRLINES (92%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



312 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Budget Panel Approves Clinton's Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
On party-line votes, the Senate Budget Committee tonight rejected Republican efforts to change President Clinton's economic plan and approved, 12 to 9, the framework of a budget close to what the President had proposed.
In the House of Representatives today, the opposition of conservative Democrats to the President's short-term economic stimulus program seemed to have withered away. 
 Thirty-four different Republican amendments were offered, and each was defeated when no Democrat broke party ranks.
The Republicans, who hold 9 seats on the Senate Budget Committee against 12 for the Democrats, never stood a chance today. The Democrats were solidly behind the President's proposals and the measures sponsored by the committee chairman, Jim Sasser of Tennessee, to make small modifications in the Clinton program.
The House Budget Committee approved a budget framework on Wednesday. The Senate committee's plan, which has slightly deeper budget cuts from the House version, is supposed to shrink the deficit by $502 billion over five years.
In fiscal year 1997, the last of President Clinton's term, the deficit, which is now about $300 billion a year, would be reduced below $200 billion a year, according to the estimates of the Congressional Budget Office.
 
Votes Scheduled Next Week
 The committee measures, called budget resolutions, are scheduled for votes by the full House and Senate next week, when party-line votes are also likely to be the order of the day.
This is the first step in the annual budget process, setting overall requirements for taxes and spending but making no real judgments on which taxes to raise or lower or on what the money should be spent for. Party discipline may break down when the gritty details must be dealt with.
The Republicans' certain futility in trying to change the President's program now, without sufficient votes to win, did not prevent them from spending hours making their political points.
Beginning at 9:30 this morning and continuing well into the night, the Republicans zeroed in on the most politically touchy of the President's proposals: a higher tax on the Social Security benefits of the most affluent retirees, an energy tax, fees for using Government services like waterways, deep cuts in the military budget.
They offered amendments, one after another, that let them make their political arguments and forced Democrats to cast votes that might be used as Republican ammunition in the next campaign.
 
Talking for Television
 The top Republican on the committee, Pete V. Domenici, conceded that the effort was mostly for the consumption of the television audience that he hoped would eventually watch the taped proceedings on C-Span, the cable network that covers Congress.
For hours on end, the Republicans lined their side of the committee table and made points like these:
*Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi on Mr. Clinton's plan to require individual retirees with incomes above $25,000 and couples with incomes above $32,000 to pay higher taxes on their Social Security benefits: "They're raising taxes on retirees and using it for more Government spending."
*Senator Phil Gramm of Texas on the Clinton plan to charge a fee to state-chartered banks whose deposits are insured by the Federal Government: "This would make it hard for consumers who want to buy automobiles and refrigerators and washing machines."
While this was going on, the man running the television camera pointed at the Democratic side of the table had little to do, the Democratic seats being empty for most of the day.
Occasionally one Democrat or another would come in and offer a potshot, like this one from Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, who wore a U.S.S. Tennessee baseball cap to keep the TV lights out of his eyes: "You fellows act like you just walked out of Independence Hall and Government just got started."
Senator Sasser, for his part, sat quietly in the chairman's seat at the head of the table, knowing he had the votes locked up and looking ever so much like a poker player with complete confidence in his hole card.
Once in a while, he offered a defense of the Clinton plan. "The American people voted for a change," he said at one point, calling for more money for education, job-training, health care and law-enforcement. The new taxes, he said, "will be used to lower the deficit and advance the investment programs the American people have said they wanted."
In the House, Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington said Mr. Clinton's proposal for an immediate economic stimulus of $31 billion would be passed mostly intact. The package includes $15 billion in tax cuts for businesses and $16 billion in new spending for roads, summer jobs and other programs to create jobs.
 
Threat That Fades
 Some conservative Democrats had threatened to oppose the stimulus measures. But after a caucus of all Democrats this morning, they withdrew their challenge, apparently because they did not have enough votes to make a difference.
Asked whether the stimulus would be cut back, Mr. Foley responded: "No, I don't think so. You know, we'll make some minor adjustments in it as we always do, but I don't expect any major scaling back of it."
At the other end of the Democratic ideological spectrum, the members of the Black Caucus met with Mr. Foley this afternoon to complain that the budget now moving through Congress cut too deeply into spending programs important to their districts. They also seemed to have too few votes to make a difference.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a meeting of the budget conference yesterday, Senate members conferred. From the left were Pete V. Domenici; Jim Sasser, the chairman; Ernest F. Hollings, and Donald W. Riegle Jr. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



313 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Rise in Metals Prices Is Led By Platinum and Palladium

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Platinum and palladium led metals futures higher yesterday amid perceptions that political unrest in Russia could disrupt supplies. Grains fell on fears that the unrest could shut Russia out of the United States grain market, analysts said.
The Russian Congress moved yesterday to strip President Boris N. Yeltsin of most of his authority, threatening his economic reforms. 
 Although Russian production of platinum and palladium has been falling, Russia produces about half the world's supply of the metals, which are used widely in catalytic converters and electronics.
"It's looking very uncertain," said Bette Raptopoulos, a metals analyst with Prudential Securities in New York. "Russia is a major producer and the fear is that if things got chaotic, production could be disrupted and shipments could be curtailed."
Platinum for April delivery closed $3.70 higher at $349.30 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Palladium for delivery in June closed $2.30 higher at $105 an ounce.
The gains spilled over into other metals futures, analysts said. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for April delivery bounced off its life-of-contract low set Wednesday and finished 70 cents higher at $327.60 an ounce. Silver for delivery in May closed 5.5 cents higher at $3.637 an ounce.
Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade pushed soybean and grain futures prices lower.
Russia accounted for about 11 percent of American grain exports until November, when it missed payments on Washington-backed loans to buy United States farm products. Russian officials have been trying to reschedule its debt for months so that it might be reinstated into American loan programs. The instability in Russia could further delay a resolution to its debt problems, analysts said.
Oil futures extended Wednesday's losses on the New York Merc as traders shifted their attention to oversupply.
Crude oil for April delivery closed 26 cents lower at $20.13 a barrel. Among products, heating oil for April delivery finished 0.73 cent lower at 57.32 cents a gallon, and unleaded gasoline for April delivery finished 1.08 cents lower at 57.33 cents a gallon.
May orange juice jumped in reaction to forecasts calling for freezing temperatures in Florida's citrus belt this weekend, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PALLADIUM (METAL); PLATINUM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GRAIN; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FUTURES (94%); METALS MARKETS (93%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); POLITICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); WEATHER (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



314 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends the Day Mixed Amid Concern on Yeltsin

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed in trading against the major currencies yesterday amid rumors about whether Boris Yeltsin would survive as the president of Russia.
Gillie Augeri, chief dealer at the Connecticut National Bank in Hartford, said the market was confused by moves by opponents of President Yeltsin to strip him of power. She said the dollar started rising late Wednesday and continued in yesterday's trading. 
 The Communist-dominated Russian Congress voted yesterday to strip Mr. Yeltsin of more of his powers and canceled a national referendum he had sought to cement his authority.
European currencies usually weaken on news of instability in Russia, as traders often buy dollars because of the relative security of the currency, driving up its value. However, once word got out that President Yeltsin was not immediately ousted, the dollar drifted lower, Ms. Augeri said.
Yesterday's economic numbers that showed a modest rise in February retail sales were offset by an unexpected jump in jobless claims and thus had no effect on the market, she said.
 
Dollar at 118.09 Yen in Tokyo
 Late yesterday in New York, the dollar sold at 117.65 yen, down from 118.05 yen on Wednesday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 118.09 yen, up 0.19 yen from Wednesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at the lower rate of 117.50 yen.
In New York it cost $1.4305 to buy one British pound, less expensive than Wednesday's $1.4330. In London, the pound rose to $1.4362, from $1.4325 late Wednesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday's rates, included: 1.6615 German marks, down from 1.6665; 1.5235 Swiss francs, down from 1.5355; 5.6435 French francs, down from 5.6580; 1,607.00 Italian lire, up from 1,606.50, and 1.24725 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2448.
Other late dollar rates in Europe compared with late rates Wednesday, included: 1.6615 German marks, down from 1.6750; 1.5215 Swiss francs, down from 1.5354; 5.6345 French francs, down from 5.6525; 1.8658 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8713; 1,604.50 Italian lire, up from 1,601.00, and 1.2445 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2461.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (71%); JAPAN (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL-BANK AG (58%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (58%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (58%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (58%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (71%); JAPAN (69%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (68%); RETAIL SALES (53%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (53%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS YELTSIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



315 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Judge Orders Better Care For Homeless With H.I.V.

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
A State Supreme Court judge has ruled that New York City must provide certain minimum standards in housing homeless people with H.I.V. who have symptoms of illness but do not yet have AIDS. Advocates for the homeless say the decision will force the city to remove this group from the city's shelters.
Ruling on a lawsuit brought by the Coalition for the Homeless against the city and the state nearly five years ago, Judge Edward H. Lehner found that current city efforts to shield this population from tuberculosis and other infectious diseases do not go far enough. He ordered the city to place this group in rooms with four or fewer people where beds are at least eight feet apart, and said the city must also provide them with quarters that have adequate ventilation and separate bathrooms and dining areas. 
 "Not a single facility in the city meets the standards," said Virginia G. Shubert, the plaintiffs' lawyer. "The only logical response for the city is to expand eligibility for private housing to anyone with H.I.V. disease."
But in his ruling, issued March 4, the judge rejected arguments that H.I.V.-infected homeless people who are ill are entitled to the same private housing given to those with AIDS, the end stage of H.I.V. infection.
 
Appeal Is Planned
 City lawyers said yesterday that they will appeal the decision, the latest in a series of court orders in the last year that has found the city's handling of the homeless inadequate. Ms. Shubert said the defendants are also considering an appeal in the hope of getting those people sick with H.I.V. the same treatment as those with AIDS.
Neither side had estimates of how many homeless people would be affected by the ruling, or how much it would cost the city to meet the judge's standards. But both agree their numbers were reduced considerably earlier this year when the city decided to follow an expanded Federal definition of AIDS to determine who is eligible for city AIDS-related benefits. There are currently about 7,000 single adult men and women and 5,600 families in the city's shelter system.
The lawsuit was filed on behalf of three homeless individuals in 1988. Judge Lehner issued his decision following a trial last year that featured conflicting medical opinions about the risks involved in placing H.I.V.-infected people in homeless shelters.
The plaintiffs argued that the city's barracks-style shelters endanger the health of people whose immune system has been weakened by the AIDS virus and who have less ability to fight diseases they can catch from others. They argued that the shelters are breeding grounds for tuberculosis, pointing at studies that showed an outbreak of 12 cases at a Manhattan shelter for men and a TB infection rate of 43 percent at another, on Wards Island.
 
Debate Over Care Needed
 City officials argued that private housing for this group was neither medically required nor economically feasible. The city offers private housing and other benefits to more than 2,600 people with conditions that meet the Federal definition of AIDS. Those not deemed to have the disease are eligible for rent subsidies or, if in a medically frail condition, for a "comprehensive care program" that places them in special units within existing shelters.
The program's units have no more than 12 people per room and offer expanded medical care and social services, along with specialized diets. Participants still share dining rooms and other areas with the general shelter population.
"If we felt they were at risk we wouldn't do this," said James Capoziello, the Executive Deputy Commissioner for Adult Services in the city's Human Resources Administration.
Judge Lehner rejected the comprehensive care program as lacking a "rational basis." He said medical screenings upon admission cannot reliably detect, for example, whether a person has drug-resistant TB.
But he said he found no grounds to order the city to treat those infected as if they had AIDS.
"Although such a program of individual housing would be the most desirable and create the least risk to H.I.V.-infected persons of coming in contact with others with infectious diseases, government cannot be required to provide an optimal solution," he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS

ORGANIZATION: COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); TUBERCULOSIS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS HOMELESSNESS (94%); AIDS & HIV (93%); JUDGES (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); APPEALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); TUBERCULOSIS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); VIRUSES (72%); 

PERSON: LEHNER, EDWARD H (JUDGE); NAVARRO, MIREYA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



316 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Semiconductor's Income Rose 85% in 3d Quarter

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 11

 BODY:
Continuing its recovery, the National Semiconductor Corporation reported today that earnings for its third quarter were up 85 percent from a year ago, at the high end of Wall Street estimates. The Santa Clara, Calif., chip maker also reported improvement in profit margins and a record level of new orders.
The news moved National's stock, which closed at $12.875, up $1.375, on the New York Stock Exchange. National shares were one of the most heavily traded issues, with 2.4 million changing hands. 
 "I am pleased with our third-quarter results, which demonstrate that we are continuing our profitability for the sixth consecutive quarter, with substantial improvement in income from operations," Gilbert F. Amelio, National's president and chief executive, said in a statement.
For the quarter ended Feb. 28, the company reported profits of $26.9 million, or 19 cents a share, up from $14.5 million, or 11 cents a share, for the corresponding period last year.
Sales for the quarter were $491.5 million, up 22 percent from $401.8 million for the quarter last year.
"Gross margins also improved during the quarter to 31.1 percent, compared with 28.7 percent for the comparable quarter a year ago, and 29.7 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 1993," Mr. Amelio said. "This improvement is derived in part from lower production costs achieved by our continuing restructuring program."
 
An Improved Profitability
 Another factor in National's improved profitability is a continuing shift from commodity chips to more specialized devices that command higher prices, said Daniel L. Klesken, an analyst with Robertson, Stephens & Company. The product mix "is still in transition," as shown by a gross margin of 31 percent, he said. "Probably in another year it will be in the mid-30's; they know where they want to go."
National said semiconductor industry business conditions in the third quarter continued to improve over the second quarter and were substantially stronger than last year. National's third-quarter worldwide orders set a record and were up 40 percent over last year.
"We entered the fourth quarter with an improved backlog," Mr. Amelio said. "By having shipped through the holidays we expect to temper the normal seasonal upswing of the fourth quarter. As part of our continuing focus on gross margin improvement, we expect fourth-quarter gross margin to improve over the current quarter."
Mr. Klesken said that another favorable sign is that "customers are now feeling good enough to commit beyond 90 days," rather than the 30- or 45-day order commitments more typical of the semiconductor industry. "That's a first," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "National Semiconductor Corp. (N)

Qtr. to Feb. 28	1993	1992	%Ch	Sales	491,500,000	401,800,000	+22.3	Net inc.	b26,900,000	c14,500,000	+85.5	Sh. earn	.19	.11		Sh. out.	115,600,000	111,400,000		9mo sls.	1,455,800,000	1,226,000,000	+25	Net inc.	b84,100,000	cd147,600,000		Sh. earn	.63	-		Sh. out.	115,000,000	104,100,000	 	
 
b-After $400,000 in net exceptional income, which included income of $8.3 million in patent licensing fees, but was partially offset by $3.2 million in legal expenses in connection with a tax court trial, and a $4.7 million write-down of a minority investment.
c-Included income of $8.5 million, or 7 cents a share, in patent licensing fees, in the quarter and 9 months.
d-Net loss
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$12.875
Up $1.375

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: NSM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M GILBERT F AMELIO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



317 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Marriott Alters Plan To Split Up

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
The Marriott Corporation, acting to placate bondholders angry over its plan to split into two companies, said yesterday that it had agreed to issue new bonds at higher interest rates and to shift some debt between the two new companies.
The original plan to split, announced in October, angered bondholders and brought lawsuits because virtually all of Marriott's nearly $3 billion in debt would have been left with the new real estate company, rather than the profitable management company. 
 The corporation still intends to divide into separate companies, but, under yesterday's agreement, about $450 million of debts and assets will be shifted from Host Marriott, the proposed real estate company, to Marriott International, the company that will manage hotels and restaurants. About $1.9 billion of the total debt is in bonds.
News of the planned reorganization in October had sent the price of Marriott's 20-year bonds plunging by 30 percent. Yesterday, the bonds were up slightly after the news of the revision. Marriott's stock, which rose 12 percent the day the proposed reorganization was announced, closed yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange at $26.50, up 75 cents.
 
Agreement in Principle Set
 Yesterday's agreement in principle was reached with the plaintiffs in eight class action lawsuits, and with representatives of institutions holding about $400 million of Marriott's bonds. Those institutions that had threatened to sue are IDS Financial Services, the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, the California Public Employees' Retirement System and the Allstate Life Insurance Company.
The offer to exchange new bonds for old will be available to all bondholders, and all participants would be required to abandon litigation seeking to block the restructuring. But not all creditors have accepted the terms.
The most conspicuous holdout remains PPM America Inc., whose clients hold more than $120 million in bonds and which has sued Marriott for securities fraud. That suit is pending in United States District Court in Baltimore.
Lawrence Kill, PPM's lawyer, described yesterday's offer as "woefully inadequate" and accused the company of trying to "steamroller" bondholders into accepting its offer.
"Had PPM's plaintiffs known of the restructuring they wouldn't have bought the bonds," Mr. Kill said, "or their price would have been substantially less."
In December, Marriott said it planned to form the new company through a special dividend, after which shareholders would have an identical number of shares in each company. That dividend remains contingent upon ratification by shareholders and a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that it will be tax-free. The transaction is scheduled for completion this summer, the company said, and closing is not contingent upon the outcome of the exchange offer.
Among the assets being shifted to Marriott International are leased land and two retirement communities. Marriott International will lease another 14 retirement communities from Host Marriott. Assuming 100 percent participation in the exchange offer, Host Marriott's total debt would be reduced by about $500 million.
Stephen F. Bollenbach, Marriott's chief financial officer, said the contemplated adjustments are expected to reduce Marriott International's projected earnings by about 7 cents a share this year, and less than five cents a share in 1994.
J. W. Marriott Jr., chairman and president of the Bethesda, Md. company, said Marriott International "will continue to have a strong capital base with ample investment capacity to pursue strategic growth."
The agreement calls for Host Marriott to pay $1 million in fees and expenses to attorneys of the class action plaintiffs. And it provides warrants to purchase up to 7.7 million shares of its common stock, for the benefit of former bondholders who disposed of their bonds after Oct. 5, 1992, and cannot participate in the exchange offer.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The New Marriott" lists how Marriott will look under the modified reorganization plan (Source: Marriott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (97%); HST (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (97%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (97%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT CORP; MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; HOST MARRIOTT CORP MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (97%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (93%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (66%); PPM AMERICA INC (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (54%); ALLSTATE LIFE INSURANCE CO OF NEW YORK (54%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT CORP; MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; HOST MARRIOTT CORP CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CREDIT; CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TAX LAW (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INSURANCE (72%); DIVIDENDS (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



318 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Dayton Hudson Corp. (N)

 BODY:
Thanks to healthy sales and tight expense controls, the Dayton Hudson Corporation's profits rose 30 percent in the fourth quarter.
Sales in stores open at least one year, which analysts consider a better barometer of a retail company's performance than total sales figures, were up 6 percent in the fourth quarter and 4 percent for the year. 
 Wayne Hood, a retail analyst at Prudential Securities, said the Target discount store division, which accounted for 58 percent of the company's revenues last year, should have even stronger sales next year because of a strategy to lower prices on about a thousand items.
Dayton Hudson hopes that Mervyn's, its problematic chain of moderately priced apparel stores, will benefit from a change in merchandising strategy. Mervyn's customers typically have shopped for individual items, but the company is now trying to get them to buy clothes in ensembles.
The department stores that Dayton Hudson operates -- Marshall Field's, Dayton's and Hudson's -- got a big lift last year from aggressive cost-cutting. Mr. Hood said the stores were now poised to benefit from improvements in the economy in their Midwestern markets.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DAYTON HUDSON CORP. (N)"

Qtr. to Jan. 30	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	5,901,000,000	5,249,000,000	+12.4	Net inc.	249,000,000	192,000,000	+29.7	Sh. earn	3.39	2.60		Sh. out.	71,700,000	71,400,000		Yr. rev.	17,927,000,000	16,115,000,000	+11.2	Net inc.	383,000,000	301,000,000	+27.2	Sh. earn	5.02	3.86		Sh. out.	71,600,000	71,500,000	 	
 
Dayton Hudson said that in the latest fourth quarter it took a LIFO credit of $22 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with a credit of $70 million, or 59 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. The company also said that its LIFO credit for the latest year was $9 million, or 7 cents a share, against a credit of $38 million, or 32 cents a share, in the previous year.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$79.50
Down 37.5 cents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (98%); M (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (98%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (98%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DAYTON HUDSON CORP TARGET CORP (98%); MACY'S INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAYTON HUDSON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); MIDWEST USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



319 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Discounters Invade Mexico

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
The discounters that revolutionized retailing in the United States are at it in Mexico now, underselling not only the department stores and specialty shops but sometimes even the street vendors, kiosk operators and other members of the big informal economy.
The invasion began a year ago, after the Mexican Government lifted import restrictions on most American consumer goods in anticipation of the North American Free Trade Agreement. That meant that a Wal-Mart could transplant its high-volume merchandising to Mexico, and it was not long before a Wal-Mart's Sam's Club set up shop in a former candy factory on one side of town, and the Price Club opened one of its warehouse-like stores on the other side. 
 "I would say that 20 percent of the Mexican population could be our clientele someday," said Jaime Gonzalez Solana, director general of Price Club of Mexico and a member of the family that owns Comercial Mexicana, a chain of supermarkets and restaurants that is the Price Company's Mexican partner.
Until two years ago, the sidewalk stands, street peddlers and makeshift storefronts, which are illegal but operate everywhere here, had been a huge source for foreign-made goods sold as contraband at deep discounts.
This informal economy is still a very active part of Mexican retailing, accounting for more than 15 percent of the nation's total economic activity. But with the lifting of import quotas, the vendors have been deprived of some of their contraband market appeal, and operations like Sam's Club and Price Club are beginning to challenge them. The two discounters are also beginning to act as wholesalers to the hundreds of small, family-owned stores that sell everything from apparel to small appliances.
"They offer the quality, spare parts, service and warranties that the street vendors can't provide," said Mauricio A. Gonzalez Gomez, a director of the Economists and Associates Group, a consulting firm. "Many Mexicans, of course, lack the income to go to a Wal-Mart or don't yet know about such places. But the numbers of potential customers are rising."
Mr. Gonzalez Gomez and Ignacio Perez Lizaur, his counterpart at Sam's Club, speak of plans to open a dozen more outlets in the next few years. Their aim is to attract all sorts of Mexicans, including the thousands who migrated to the United States, lived there for a while and became shoppers at warehouse clubs before returning to Mexico. "For these people, Sam's Club and Price Club give the sensation that they are shopping again in the United States," said Homero Aridjis, a historian and novelist.
The flood of foreign goods pouring into Mexico is not particularly healthy for the economy. It comes at a time when Mexico's exports are insufficient to pay for the new merchandise and Mexicans are borrowing abroad to cover a rising trade deficit. That, in turn, is running up Mexico's foreign debt and putting pressure on the Government for a devaluation of the peso. Such a devaluation would slow the flood of imports by making them more expensive.
"A steep devaluation would undo the warehouse club approach," Mr. Gonzalez Solana said. "It is out of the question for us, and we are not worried that it will happen."
The Price Club here and the Sam's Clubs in Mexico City and Monterrey, are byproducts of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's decision to lift most import restrictions and encourage Mexicans to shop here rather than load up in El Paso and Laredo, Tex., or San Diego. That is still common practice, even for Mexico City residents 15 hours away by car.
But some of the customers crowding into Sam's Club on a recent Saturday afternoon were not so impressed with the prices. They were mostly middle-class families buying a week's or a month's supply of paper towels and toilet paper, soft drinks, soap and other staples.
 
Buying in Bulk
 Maria Teresa Verde de Hernandez and her 26-year-old son, Dr. Gustavo Hernandez, who recently completed his medical training here, were pushing a cart along the aisles formed by merchandise, which in American warehouse fashion was piled on wooden shipping pallets rather than on shelves. Some items were made in Mexico: stepladders, food blenders, irons and frozen foods. But they were invariably of high quality, often manufactured by American companies with low-wage factories here to serve the American market.
"People come here to buy in bulk, which is harder to do in Mexican stores or on the street, where merchandise is more commonly sold in single units," Dr. Hernandez said. Periodically as they shopped, Dr. Hernandez added up on a pocket calculator how much he and his mother were spending. Soon their cart contained several six-packs of imported soap, at nearly 9 pesos, or $3, a six-pack; 20 American-made razor blades for 45 pesos, or $15, and a case of 27 imported one-pint containers of chocolate milk for 34 pesos, or $11.33.
The soap cost only slightly less than Mrs. Verde de Hernandez said she paid at her neighborhood store. Her son said that he had bought razor blades at street stalls for roughly the same price as the Sam's Club store charges. The milk, however, came to the peso equivalent of 42 cents a pint, compared with 67 cents in Mexican stores, where milk is sold one pint at a time. And the quality is more reliable, Dr. Hernandez said.
Still, he added, "the price advantages for many things are greater at Sam's Clubs in the United States than they are here."
Hugo Mendez agrees. He and his family are the sort of customer that Sam's Club and Price Club really seek. The Mendez family has a small store that sells clothing, televisions and various electronic products. There are tens of thousands of stores like theirs in Mexico, and Sam's Club and Price Club want to supply them with goods to sell.
"Our primary goal is not to sell to high-income consumers but to be wholesalers to small businesses, to mom-and-pop shops and street merchants who cart off their purchases in a van or a pickup truck," Mr. Perez said, outlining a strategy that mirrors a Sam's Club approach in America. High-volume buyers, then, take priority over high-income shoppers, even if in Mexico that means extending membership and credit to illegal kiosk operators and street vendors.
"They have to show us to become a member that they have a business tax identification number, but that does not mean that they pay taxes," Mr. Perez said.
He added that most of the more than 100,000 Sam's Club members were merchants. Whether they are operating legally or in the informal economy is not an important distinction nor much of a moral issue in a nation that relies heavily on the informal market to provide jobs and incomes for millions of Mexicans.
 
Stress Mexican Links
 Price Club operates similarly and says it has a similar membership. Both also try to emphasize their Mexican connection. Sam's Club, for example, promotes itself as Club Aurrera here, a well-known trade name of Wal-Mart's Mexican partner, a company called Cifra that owns supermarkets and merchandise stores.
For shoppers like Mr. Mendez, Club Aurrera offers a flatbed cart big enough to haul two washing machines to the checkout counter, or an air compressor for an auto shop, or a pile of imported sports shirts or a case or two of frozen filet mignon that Sam's Club promotes to restaurants.
Mr. Mendez, on a recent afternoon, had not bothered to take a flatbed cart. He had come to compare prices on goods that might be sold at his store, which he runs with his father and brother. He was particularly interested in 21-inch Japanese color televisions that he hoped could be bought at 1,200 pesos, or $400, apiece for resale at 1,800 pesos, or $600. But the lowest Club Aurrera price was 1,358 pesos, or $450.
As an alternative, "We can drive to the Sam's Club in Laredo and buy a 21-inch set for $300 -- 1,000 pesos -- and have a bigger selection to choose from," Mr. Mendez said. "My father and brother and I make the trip every two weeks. We leave in our van at 6 P.M., get there at 8 A.M., shop all day, and drive back that night. Usually we can get through Mexican customs without paying duties or bribes; it depends on our luck."
 
Volume at Wholesale
 While the Government has lifted some import restrictions, it still charges duties, which average 12 percent of the purchase price for most imported goods. With import quotas largely gone, Price Club and Sam's Club can buy merchandise in huge volumes at wholesale prices that even the most agile black marketeers have difficulty matching.
But the American discounters still have to pay import duties, and various domestic taxes, which the informal economy escapes. The warehouse clubs, in turn, avoid the bribes to Government officials and the "rentals" for sidewalk space that drive up costs for street vendors.
As a result, the comparison between the big warehouse stores and the informal vendors is nearly a wash. For example, the 21-inch Japanese television at Sam's for 1,358 pesos, or $453, sells for 1,300 pesos, or $433, at a sidewalk kiosk, but without a warranty. At a higher end are the neighborhood stores like that owned by the Mendez family, which would try to sell the same television, with a warranty, for 1,800 pesos, or $600.
The big losers are the department and specialty stores and some of the Mexican factories that supply them -- stores like Al Progreso, which sells party dresses and bolts of fine silk, without much competition from the informal economy or the American warehouse clubs. But Al Progreso also carries a large stock of men's wool sweaters, made in Mexico, for 109 pesos, or $36.
Sam's Club "offers the same sweater, imported, for 79 pesos, or $26," said Julio Cesar Hernandez, an Al Progreso manager. "They buy big quantities in Hong Kong, Uruguay and Argentina. There used to be 20 factories making sweaters like these, and now there are 3 or 4."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In anticipation of a North American Free Trade Agreement, Mexico lifted import restrictions on most consumer goods and thus opened the door for the big discounters to move across the border. At a discount outlet in Mexico City affiliated with Wal-Mart, some prices inspire shoppers to buy in bulk. (Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times) (pg. D1); Ignacio Perez Lizaur, director general of Club Aurrera in Mexico City, hopes to open a dozen new outlets in the next few years. (Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART; SAM'S CLUB (WAREHOUSE STORES); PRICE CLUBS SAM'S CLUB (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART; SAM'S CLUB (WAREHOUSE STORES); PRICE CLUBS NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; VENDORS, STREET RETAILERS (93%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); HISTORY (67%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (55%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



320 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Review/Photography;
Flinty Perspectives On Urban Architecture

BYLINE: By CHARLES HAGEN

 BODY:
The German artist Thomas Struth casts a cold eye on urban architecture in his steely black-and-white photographs. Like his teachers Bernhard and Hilla Becher, Mr. Struth, who lives in Dusseldorf, uses a stark and rigorous style that underscores the seeming objectivity of his pictures. In earlier works, Mr. Struth recorded buildings and public spaces in cities ranging from Tokyo to New York to Rome; in his current show, he depicts similar scenes in cities of what was once East Germany, including Leipzig, Gotha, Weimar and Wittenberg.
Mr. Struth's precise pictures have an almost archeological sense of detachment, allowing viewers to read the history and character of a building or street, and by extension of the people who live in it, from the details of its style and physical condition. The buildings Mr. Struth photographs are for the most part undistinguished, important not as examples of fine architecture but as cultural artifacts. 
 In any given situation Mr. Struth tends to photograph from the most obvious viewpoint, whether directly in front of a building or looking down the center of a street, avoiding expressive angles or lighting. Three of the photographs here are in color, but they are as drab and dreary as the black and whites. Devoid of people, his pictures turn the streets and buildings into ghostly replicas of themselves, like film sets exact in every detail.
Much of the history of modern Germany can be read in the crumbling faces of these buildings. Some prints, showing tile-roofed houses crowding narrow cobblestoned streets, seem at first like postcards of a cheery Germany before World War II. But closer examination shows the buildings to be grimy, decrepit, with sections of brick visible beneath decaying stucco, and rubble piled up on the sidewalks. Bullet holes in the facade of an ornate building in Berlin testify to war damage left unrepaired since 1945.
Even the few new buildings, like an ugly gray housing block in Leipzig, are depressing. Other reminders of the former Communist regime can be found in the boxy Trabants, the foul-smelling cars manufactured under the old regime, that line virtually every street. But clustered on the rooftops of even the most deteriorated buildings are the television antennas that indicate the arrival of the consumer society of the West.
Mr. Struth's dispassionate photographs revive a 19th-century notion of photography as a neutral record-making medium, and they have about them an equally old-fashioned sense of anonymous craftsmanship. The pictures recall the photographs that Charles Marville took in the 1860's to record Paris streets and back alleys about to be obliterated by Baron Georges Haussmann's urban renewal projects. They also suggest Eugene Atget's photographs of the empty streets and courtyards of Paris, taken in the early years of this century.
Other photographers, notably Walker Evans and Berenice Abbott in the 1930's, have treated vernacular architecture as a mirror of a society. In the 1970's, Lewis Baltz produced a powerful series of pictures of the blandly streamlined warehouses and office buildings of industrial parks in Southern California. (Mr. Baltz's current work, night shots of European cities, is on view at the Janet Borden Gallery, 560 Broadway, near Prince Street, in SoHo, through March 20.)
In turning his camera to the cities of eastern Germany, Mr. Struth gives his pictures a topical edge. His earlier photographs of Tokyo, New York, Paris or elsewhere seemed somewhat theoretical in their cool analysis of urban growth. At times his pictures of skyscrapers and office buildings, with their pristine, geometric facades, took on an eerie, almost Surrealistic quality.
Here, though, his photographs offer a much more pointed critique of the East German regime, and in doing so move closer to the traditional concerns and methods of documentary photography. Despite this, Mr. Struth provides no information about each scene other than a vague address.
This unwillingness to expand upon the suggestions of meaning provided by the photographs may reflect the fact that for both theoretical and practical reasons, many German art photographers want to distinguish their work from photojournalism. But the lack of information here is frustrating, and undercuts the value of the pictures as records.
Mr. Struth has tried to apply his stolid style to other themes. Examples of his portraits of families and shots of museum visitors clustered in front of artworks can be seen in "Photography in Contemporary German Art: 1960 to the Present," at the Guggenheim Museum in SoHo through May 9.
But his attempts to depict other subjects have none of the fascination of his architectural photographs. In them he revives a powerful function of photography, using it to frame seemingly unremarkable sections of the everyday world and allowing viewers to pore over them at length. Buildings and streets are made to speak, to tell tales of both the past and the present.
The photographs of Thomas Struth remain at the Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, through March 20.

GRAPHIC: Photo:"Erich Ferl Strasse, Leipzig," by Thomas Struth, at Marian Goodman.(Marian Goodman Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODMAN, MARIAN, GALLERY (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: GOODMAN, MARIAN, GALLERY (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); FILM (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); 

PERSON: HAGEN, CHARLES; STRUTH, THOMAS

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



321 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants;
In Morningside Heights, quality outrides many changes.

BYLINE: By Bryan Miller

 BODY:
The Terrace restaurant, high above 119th Street at Columbia University in Morningside Heights, seemed a likely victim for the harsh recent recession. It is a long cab ride from midtown Manhattan and is in a less than glamorous neighborhood, yet its prices are relatively steep. The Terrace survived, though, and much credit is due to Nada Bernic, the owner, and her team.
The Terrace has seen many changes in the last decade. Dusan Bernic, the chef and Mrs. Bernic's husband, died in 1984, leaving the restaurant's future in doubt. Since then, Mrs. Bernic has recruited a succession of able young chefs who have managed to maintain the restaurant's quality. 
 The latest is a Cairo native, Ossama Mickail, who trained in Switzerland and later worked for Alain Senderens, the owner of Lucas-Carton in Paris. Mr. Mickail combines a solid sense of classic French cuisine with a sunny touch of the Mediterranean. His inventive fusions do not always make sparks, but when they succeed a fine meal can be had.
The Terrace remains one of the most romantic settings in New York City. The window-wrapped dining room on the roof of Butler Hall at Columbia affords sweeping views of the city and beyond. The candlelit rooms, with a rose on each table and a harpist entertaining nightly, are comfortable and soothing. As might be expected, this is a popular spot for birthdays, anniversaries and graduation celebrations at Columbia. In nice weather, a rooftop terrace is open for drinks and appetizers.
One of the chef's more compelling starters is a warm potato napoleon with crab meat and mint. The pristine, sweet crab meat is a winner on its own, even better under a roof made with a homemade potato chip, all ringed with a white-wine sauce and fresh mint. A revisionist ravioli is delicate and fresh, too: a thin sheet of pasta draped over deliciously herbed sauteed shrimp, ringed with a coulis of red and yellow tomatoes. A mosaic of marinated salmon and yellowfin tuna is a nice idea, but it was marred by mixed greens that were saturated with raspberry vinegar. And a starter called sesame-scented pasta with caramelized pearl onions and arugula sounded appealing, but it was served at room temperature, which left it tasting like leftovers.
You can't go wrong with the luxurious and expensive ($18) sauteed foie gras of duck with wild mushrooms and a thyme-accented duck juice, or with the pleasing seared roulade of smoked salmon and goat cheese enlivened with herbed olive oil.
Captains and waiters at the Terrace are likable fellows, amiable and enthusiastic, but they will never win a gold medal in the 50-yard dash. I have bought an automobile in less time than it took to get a bottle of wine -- and the wrong bottle, to boot. And little things like getting the check can make the lines in a Department of Motor Vehicles office seem speedy. The Terrace has beefed up its wine list noticeably in recent years, with a large stock of Bordeaux, a respectable and eclectic California roster and smatterings from around the world (except Italy). Markups are average to high.
Best choices among main courses are lusty winter specialties like succulent veal medallions paired with buttery duck confit under crumpled phyllo dough, all in a woodsy morel sauce. Also satisfying is roast poussin, or baby chicken, moistened with herb butter and ringed by whole garlic cloves, potatoes and carrots. The menu silliness starts with combinations like gamy and tender venison combined with a potato basket holding dryish roast quail camouflaged by sprigs of fresh herbs. A cloying venison stock sauce sweetened with peach schnapps did not help.
Journalistic curiosity compelled me to order a dish called mille-feuille of lobster with butternut squash, truffle vinaigrette, mango and ginger oil. In fairness, it was not quite so scary as it sounded: the mango was mostly ornamental, and the ginger oil was subtle. But it still was not something to search out.
One would do much better with the perfectly cooked rack of lamb with shredded lamb confit on the side, or breast of Muscovy duck with a smoked duck wing on the side and a good red-wine sauce sweetened with figs. Mr. Mickail has toyed with the house signature dish, called red snapper Adriatic style. Under the previous chef, it was a garlicky fillet of red snapper garnished with deep-fried parsley and surrounded by Provencal-style vegetables. The new version, a change to be sure but not necessarily for the better, combines the sauteed fish with a puree of sweet peas and potatoes, with fried celery on the side.
A good selection of Cognacs and brandies is available with dessert. Among the best sweets are a light-crusted mixed fruit tart with raspberry sauce, a fluffy napoleon of puff pastry and berries with whipped cream, and tarte Tatin with hazelnut ice cream. Chocolate mocha rum cake is rich and moist but hardly intoxicating with rum.
The Terrace still offers considerable beguilements, not the least of which is the dining room's elevation. As for the food, it can still entice, but overall at a lower altitude than before.
The Terrace
*
400 West 119th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9490.
Atmosphere: Romantic candlelit room with sweeping views of the city and beyond.
Service: Staff is good-natured and eager but occasionally slow.
Recommended dishes: Potato napoleon with crab meat and mint, ravioli of shrimp with tomato coulis, seared roulade of smoked salmon with goat cheese, veal medallions with duck confit, roast baby chicken with herb butter and garlic, rack of lamb, Muscovy duck breast with red wine sauce and figs, fruit tart, napoleon of berries, tarte Tatin.
Wine: Large international list particularly strong in Bordeaux, average to high markups.
Price range: Lunch: prix fixe, $25; a la carte appetizers $6 to $9.50, main courses $10.50 to $15.50; dinner: appetizers $9 to $18, main courses $20 to $27.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: Lunch: noon to 2:30 P.M. Tuesdays through Fridays; dinner: 6 to 9:30 P.M. Tuesdays through Fridays, until 10 P.M. Saturdays.
Wheelchair accessibility: Elevator to 16th floor; ramp for three steps at entrance is available if you call ahead. Restrooms are not wide enough for wheelchairs.
 
Ratings:
 
Poor
Satisfactory
Good
Very Good
Excellent
Extraordinary
 Ratings are based on the reviewer's reaction to food and price in relation to comparable establishments.
 The Times Restaurant Line offers capsule reviews by cuisine, price and location (in New York City and suburbs), published in the last 18 months. Touch-line telephones only: 1-900-988-0101 (75 cents a minute).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (56%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: TERRACE, THE (NYC RESTAURANT) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (78%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (85%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: TERRACE, THE (NYC RESTAURANT) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (85%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (56%); FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); CHEESE (64%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



322 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
SIEMENS WANTS TO EXPAND IN SOUTHEAST ASIA

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The German electronics and telecommunications group Siemens A.G. wants to expand in Southeast Asia, its chief executive, Heinrich von Pierer, said yesterday. 
 Mr. von Pierer said at the company's annual meeting that trade in the United States, Western Europe and Japan was "no longer sufficient," and most opportunities were likely to arise from increased infrastructure investment as the economies of Southeast Asia develop. Mr. von Pierer also told the stockholders that he expected the company's unprofitable computer unit, Siemens Nixdorf, to break even within three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (95%); SIE (LSE) (95%); SIE (FRA) (95%); SIE (BIT) (95%); SI (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (69%); 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG SIEMENS AG (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIEMENS AG

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (69%); 

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (86%); EXECUTIVES (85%); 

PERSON: VON PIERER, HEINRICH

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



323 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: The Korean Peninsula Heats Up

 BODY:
North Korea has just announced that it is backing out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. This follows its decision on Tuesday to put its army on alert in reaction to the Team Spirit exercises conducted by U.S. and South Korean forces. Pyongyang is understandably provoked by the resumption of the exercises after a year's hiatus, but withdrawing from the nonproliferation treaty is an exceedingly unwise act that will arouse the worse suspicions about Pyongyang's nuclear intentions.
The North Koreans had sought talks with the U.S. to resolve differences. The Clinton Administration could use such talks to urge Pyongyang to open up access to International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors. 
 North Korea has refused to allow I.A.E.A. inspectors into its nuclear waste sites. By examining the North's reactors and waste, they could clear up any discrepancy between what Pyongyang told the I.A.E.A. about the operation of its reactors and what the agency discovered in recent inspections. Such inspections would help the agency determine how much plutonium the North could have produced -- and whether it was enough for bomb-making.
The Team Spirit exercises are not needed to reassure Seoul of Washington's rock-solid commitment to its defense. Military hard-liners in the previous Government in the South, eager to maintain their power and position, had sought the exercises as part of their strategy of isolating the North. Washington, unwilling to cast doubt on its security ties to Seoul, went along.
But Seoul's new civilian Government shows signs of breaking with the past. Moreover, the U.S. could defer participation in future exercises and encourage North and South Korea to scale down any exercises they may hold -- a useful step in building mutual confidence.
But Pyongyang's pullout from the nonproliferation treaty raises the nuclear nightmare anew and will surely lead to its further political and economic isolation. Bilateral talks between Washington and Pyongyang could break the current impasse and cool off the hotheads in both Koreas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; EDITORIALS; NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY; TREATIES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (74%); TRENDS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); POLITICS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



324 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: For New York City and State, the Arts Are Bread and Butter

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Museums, music, dance and theater are merely frills in New York City. Welfare, health care, education and other social needs are essential, and require vast sums of money. So appropriations for the New York State Council on the Arts must again be cut. Right?
Wrong! We can only amass the resources for social purposes through our tax base. To get those taxes we must have people living in, working in and visiting our city. 
 New Yorkers remain here because the city and state offer amenities that make life in a difficult city more bearable -- the best in music and dance, marvelous museums, wide-ranging new and classical theater. Diminish these assets and what have you got? Fewer and fewer residents, businesses and visitors to bear the social costs.
The arts are not just for the elite. Millions of adults and children of all ethnic groups and economic status participate and benefit. Serious cutbacks in arts education make it more essential than ever that arts organizations fill the void.
In New York City, art and culture alone constitute a megaindustry -- more than $8 billion annually, conservatively estimated. Arts and tourism combined constitute one of the largest generators of tax revenues, some $2.5 billion in direct city, state and Federal tax receipts.
Nevertheless, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's proposed budget for fiscal year 1993-94 recommends that the appropriation for the State Council on the Arts be subjected to an additional cut of 13 percent for local assistance for New York and other cities. The proposed allocation is only $20.4 million for local areas and state operations, compared with almost $55 million in the 1989-90 budget -- an aggregate cut of 62.7 percent in three years!
Cuts in the arts also mean increased unemployment and reduced job opportunities for the unskilled and semi-skilled workers in hotels, restaurants and retail facilities. It is a disturbing prospect coming when President Clinton is challenging all Americans to create new employment initiatives.
For decades, New York State was first in financing the arts. Today, we have dropped to 10th in per capita expenditures. This trend augurs the accelerated flight of creativity, skills and jobs to other sectors of the country. It must be reversed.
The New York Convention and Visitors Bureau has had modest increases in funds to protect tourism. But what will the tourists experience? Reduced hours for galleries and museums? Shuttered performing arts organizations? Darkened theaters? Fewer concerts? Less dance? Less music? A dearth of programs for our children?
Governor Cuomo and the Legislature can advance the state's economy -- now and for the future -- by appropriating funds to the Council on the Arts that approximate 1989 levels. The arts are bread and butter in New York.
 
MARTIN E. SEGAL
New York, March 3, 1993
The writer is chairman emeritus, Lincoln Center for Performing Arts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL ON THE ARTS NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL ON THE ARTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DANCE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%); WRITERS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TOURISM (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); FACTORY WORKERS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); 

PERSON: SEGAL, MARTIN E BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



325 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Rubbernecking: Analyzing a Commuter Psychosis

BYLINE: By John Tierney

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
IT has been three decades since Fred Feldman introduced the term "rubbernecking delay" to commuters, and he can see that a little progress has been made against this scourge. Engineers have analyzed it. The police have attacked it. Economists have begun to reveal its costs to society -- about the same order of magnitude as the property damage from the bomb at the World Trade Center.
But so much remains unknown and unconquered. At certain moments, such as when he is monitoring rush hour from the Transcom regional traffic headquarters here, Mr. Feldman wonders if the situation is really any better than it was during his days in the WCBS Radio traffic helicopter. He began in 1962 as the first traffic reporter in New York, and he did not like what he saw. 
 "I noticed it right away," he recalled. "It's so clear when you're airborne. It looks crazy. You're flying toward the West Side Highway, you see traffic backed up four miles, and your eyeballs start going to see where the accident is. Then you get closer and closer and you say, 'God, I don't believe it.' All the lanes are open, but right next to the highway in Riverside Park there's a guy and a gal lying on a blanket necking."
Mr. Feldman would try appealing to drivers. "I'd say, 'If you've never seen two people making out on a blanket, be sure to slow down and take a look. But if you have, try to keep moving, because you're slowing down a million people behind you.' It never did any good."
This was not, of course, an entirely new phenomenon. Hannibal probably got impatient when Alpine vistas distracted the elephants up ahead. The problem was specifically documented in pre-freeway America by the country singer Mel McDaniel, whose lament about a traffic jam on Main Street featured the refrain: "They turn their heads and they watch her till she's gone / Lord have mercy, baby's got her blue jeans on."
But it was not until the age of expressways that the phenomenon received serious analysis. It has acquired several names: "gaper block" in Philadelphia, "curiosity delay" in Boston, congestion from "Lookie Lous" in Los Angeles. The most popular word nationwide is rubbernecking, a bit of slang from the turn of the century that Mr. Feldman began using about 30 years ago.
Some of his fellow trafficologists -- as Mr. Feldman likes to call them -- credit him with first applying the word to traffic jams, but he is modestly cautious. "I can't remember how I came up with rubbernecking delays," he said. "Maybe I was the first, or maybe I borrowed it from somewhere. I guess you could say I was the first to start using it on the radio in New York."
In the technical literature, "gawker delay" is classified as a significant part of "incident congestion" -- an overall problem, according to the Federal Highway Administration, that annually causes 1.3 billion "vehicle-hours of lost time" on urban freeways at a cost of $10 billion. An incident can be a disabled car on the shoulder, an accident, or an eight-story balloon of King Kong atop the Empire State Building, which in 1983 created an interstate rubbernecking incident by slowing down traffic in New Jersey.
To reduce rubbernecking, traffic engineers have pleaded with police officers to turn off the flashing light when parked on the shoulder. They've forced construction crews to put up plywood walls around work areas, and they've gotten the police in Los Angeles to put up experimental plastic screens around the scenes of accidents.
Above all, engineers have called for "incident management," which involves clearing the scene as quickly as possible. Every minute counts: a study in Los Angeles showed that even when an accident is cleared in 10 minutes, it takes another 40 minutes of "bleed-off time" for traffic to resume normal speed, which accounts for all those mysterious tie-ups with no discernible causes.
Mr. Feldman, who gave up helicopter reporting in 1978, is now heavily into incident management. At age 59, he is the manager of special projects at Transcom, a consortium of 15 local public agencies that monitors traffic and coordinates police responses throughout the New York area.
He remains passionate in his hope for better traffic -- he loves to preach what he calls "The Golden Rules of Traffic" (e.g., "Learn your alternate routes!"). But he is not optimistic about rubbernecking.
"Look at this," he said, flicking a slide on the screen in the Transcom control room. "This is the Bruckner Expressway in the Bronx. You have all lanes open southbound. Bumper to bumper. They're all looking at this car fire on the other side. You go past the scene and look at that spacing -- 10, 20 car lengths. Nothing wrong. No lanes closed. Strictly rubbernecking."
He threw up his hands. "People are people. Even when a guy knows that rubbernecking made him sit for half an hour in traffic, when he gets up to the scene he'll be damned if he's not going to take a look himself. No matter what you say, a well-proportioned woman jogging next to the Cross Island Parkway in rush hour will back up traffic for a mile. What are you going to do about it? You tell me."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The Our Towns column yesterday, about rubbernecking, referred incorrectly to Fred Feldman, a former traffic reporter. He worked for radio station WOR, not WCBS.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); URBAN AREAS VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (75%); HELICOPTERS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: FELDMAN, FRED; TIERNEY, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993



326 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: How to Get Ready For Retirement: Save, Save, Save

BYLINE: By DEBORAH M. RANKIN

 BODY:
They took early retirement last year and now split their time between their comfortable home on the southwest Florida coast and cruising on their spacious boat. He is 60, she is 55. Did they do it through inherited wealth? A megabucks career in investment banking? A lottery ticket?
None of the above. The experience of this couple, who agreed to discuss their finances if their names were not published, is simply an object lesson in the rewards of a disciplined savings program. He had a second career after the military in state government and she had her own practice as a clinical social worker in the Washington area. 
 At the peak of their careers, their total income was about $110,000 (including his military pension) and they managed to save at least 30 percent a year of that. His three children were almost grown when they married 21 years ago. By restraining their spending and squirreling away every penny they could for the last seven years, the couple amassed an investment portfolio that now exceeds $800,000, including about $100,000 in proceeds from the sale of their former home.
It's not that they were phenomenal stock pickers who found a few lucky investments, but rather that they followed the time-honored rule of saving religiously and spreading their money among many different types of investments, said their financial planner, Norma M. Severns of Armstrong, Welch & MacIntyre in Washington.
"Their portfolio grew by a bit over 10 percent on average, which was good but not astounding," she said. "Even though the numbers in their portfolio look surprising, they are really not huge and reflect our clients' ability to stick with a conservative, middle-of-the-road asset allocation program."
The retirees are unusual in their ability -- contrary to that of most Americans -- to control their spending. "Our country's modest savings rate, which was about 4 1/2 percent of take-home pay in the fourth quarter of 1992, is a permanent fixture on the landscape," said Irwin Kellner, chief economist of the Chemical Bank. "We are a buy-now, pay-later society."
Although the nation's savings rate has bounced around over the last three decades, reaching a high of more than 10 percent in 1974 and then plummeting to about 2 1/4 percent in 1987, it is currently close to the historical norm. "While 4 1/2 percent is low compared to countries such as Germany, where thrift is a national virtue, and Japan, where tax policy encourages savings, it is not low in reference to our own history," Mr. Kellner said.
But for most individuals, it is almost certainly too low for the future. People who expect to retire in the next decade or beyond will probably have to rely much more on their own savings than did their parents, because of the likelihood that Social Security and other government benefit programs will not be as generous.
Indeed, Merrill Lynch recently released a study showing that the oldest baby boomers -- those born between 1946 and 1956 -- will need to triple their savings rate in order to maintain their standard of living after they turn 65. These aging boomers will need to save as much as 19 percent of their after-tax income in order to retire in style, according to the study.
Such thrift does seem daunting, but the Florida couple took advantage of every opportunity to salt away money for the future.
"We never really lived at as high a level as we could afford," the husband recalled. "Our last three cars each had more than 150,000 miles on them. We didn't get the most expensive house we could afford and didn't buy a lot of furniture. Our boat was the focus of our recreational activities, and it cost a fair amount to maintain, so we didn't go to the theater or out to eat a lot."
Though it may seem impossible for other families to save as much as these retirees, particularly families that are raising children, their story has some lessons for everyone.
One piece of advice is to have a dream and make it as specific as possible. "My husband wanted to stop working at age 55 and spend his retirement boating for as long as I can recall," the wife said. Regardless of whether your goal is to come up with a down payment for your first house, or college tuition for your first child, try to attach dates and dollar amounts to those targets so you know exactly what you're aiming at.
Another rule is to pay yourself first. Use whatever means possible to remove a set amount of money from your bank account each month before you have a chance to spend it.
Many companies have payroll deduction plans that withhold as little as $25 from your salary each month and invest it in Series EE savings bonds. Many mutual fund families sponsor programs that automatically transfer a set amount -- usually at least $25 a month -- from your bank account to one of their funds. The idea is to view personal savings obligations just like any other monthly bill.
Make use of employer-sponsored retirement savings programs like 401(k) plans. This involves deferring a portion of your pretax salary and contributing it to stock, bond or money market funds in the plan.
Not only do these contributions lower your current taxable income, but the earnings on those contributions accumulate tax-free until they are withdrawn, typically at retirement. Some companies will match contributions up to a certain level.
"Most people will discharge their obligations religiously," said Michael Stolper, president of a San Diego investment management firm that evaluates money managers for wealthy individuals. "The trick is to never, ever just have that money just sitting in the bank," where it's available for nonessential purposes.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: 'An Ambitious Saving Plan' shows what a Florida couple saved, typically, each year of a seven-year saving plan. Their goal each year was to save at least $30,000. At peak earning power, they earned $110,000 annually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (51%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; SAVINGS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); LOTTERIES (57%); 

PERSON: RANKIN, DEBORAH M

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



327 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Yeltsin, Surrounded Again

 BODY:
Nineteen months ago, old-guard Communists tried to halt political and economic reform in what was then the Soviet Union by surrounding Boris Yeltsin with tanks. Now the old guard in Russia's Congress seeks to achieve the same objective by hemming in President Yeltsin with constitutional restraints that would leave him a figurehead.
Despite years of political upheaval, Russia's Soviet-era Constitution still survives. By insisting on strict enforcement of that now-obsolescent document, Congress declares itself, not the President, the ruling authority. 
 Mr. Yeltsin, the man who stood up to the tanks, isn't taking this constitutional power play lying down. He's preparing to take his case directly to the people with a referendum on whether the President or Congress should rule.
America's interest lies squarely with Mr. Yeltsin.
The Clinton Administration seems to grasp that interest well enough, declaring its full support for Mr. Yeltsin so long as he does not resort to military force.
But some critics now argue that Washington is too rashly betting the bank on one individual, just as it earlier seemed to stake all on Mikhail Gorbachev. Reducing foreign policy to personalities is indeed risky. But in today's Russia, there's no other sensible choice.
The Congress of People's Deputies was elected under the old regime and has a stake in preserving its power and privilege as long as possible. Mr. Yeltsin symbolizes resistance to the August 1991 coup. Crucially, he is the only figure with a clear democratic mandate from the whole of Russia. Despite the painful adjustments of economic reform, he remains a far more popular figure than his Congress opponents. Hence his willingness to go to the people in a referendum.
A succession of ad hoc agreements has allowed Mr. Yeltsin to proceed, more or less, with his reform agenda. Now the Congress insists on repudiating those power-sharing agreements and returning to the letter of the old Soviet law.
A referendum that defies Congress is fraught with dangers. There's talk in Moscow of Mr. Yeltsin declaring emergency rule, perhaps in league with army generals. And there's counter-talk of regional administrators teaming up with Congress to prevent the referendum.
All this would obviously disrupt the evolution of democratic institutions. But to insist on the Soviet-era Constitution would choke off that evolution -- and reform -- completely.
President Clinton scheduled the summit meeting on April 3 and 4 to give Mr. Yeltsin a boost before the referendum, which was originally to be April 11. Washington has also been trying to speed up new aid to meet Russia's immediate political needs -- like unemployment insurance, retraining ex-army officers and credit for small farmers. These need to be kept separate from longer-term efforts linked to progress in economic reform.
But events now seem to be moving more swiftly than the Clinton fast-track timetable envisioned. By offering tangible support immediately, he and other Western leaders can bolster President Yeltsin's position at a perilous pass in Russian history.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARMIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



328 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: India Must Put the Old Hates Aside to Survive

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "India's Days of Rage" (Op-Ed, Feb. 27), Vibhuti Patel touchingly expresses her sorrow at the latest and most vicious communal riots in India. The juxtaposition of her family's close brush with the ugly religious fanaticism (a better term than fundamentalism in this case) and her distance from it as a United States resident may not be typical. But many of us who have made our homes in this country are affected by the same sense of loss of our dream for a genuinely secular India. What is even more painful is that not all Indians there or abroad share our distress. 
 It may not be enough to trace the rise of anti-Muslim feelings solely to the machinations of the political parties, old and new, that have manipulated the masses to gain votes and power. A strong case can be made for the allure of religious fervor in a society undergoing rapid transformation. The consumerist culture that is the driving force of economic growth in India is at odds with its traditional values of communitarianism, catholicism and common decency. The collision of growth and values has created tensions among India's, people who are irrationally turning backward.
In conversations with other Indians, I hear over and over again of the long history of Hindu-Muslim relations, in which Hindus were often the victims. Recent cases of wanton attacks against tiny Hindu minorities in Pakistan and Bangladesh, which have not received much coverage in the Western newspapers, only exacerbate the tendency to make the past a divisive force for the future.
The division has a powerful hold not just over the masses, but the professional classes as well. Unless Hindus and Muslims resolve to create a secular democracy in India combining the traditional with the modern, the recent riots may be only the beginning. From the discord over religion throughout the world, it is hard to be optimistic.
 
SUMITRA SHAH
Rego Park, Queens, Feb. 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIA INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; HINDUISM RELIGION (97%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



329 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: India Must Put the Old Hates Aside to Survive;
Fundamentalist Peril

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"India at the Edge" (editorial, Feb. 24) raises legitimate concerns about the impact of Hindu fundamentalism on the world's largest democracy. The Bharatiya Janata Party's attempt to turn India into a Hindu state, if it succeeded, would backfire. 
 Muslims, Sikhs, Buddhists and Christians (India has the world's second largest Presbyterian population) would demand their right to worship, which must be granted as the most basic democratic principle. If it were denied, there would be reciprocal resistance, which could result in violence as in the weeks that followed the destruction of the Ayodhya mosque last December.
Turmoil and upheaval could destroy the confidence of foreign investors who went to India after Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao began an ambitious reform program. This program has moved India's economy from statist dependency on the Soviet Union toward privatization and long-term growth. Despite problems, the results have been commendable.
The United States has remained India's largest trading partner and its largest single investment source. In the last year, Du Pont, Ford, General Electric, I.B.M., Kellogg's, Raytheon and others have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in response to Prime Minister Rao's reforms. India's middle-class market of 200 million people adds a lot of interest to the international business climate. If reform continues, long-term mutual benefit will be enormous.
However, ethnic and religious extremism could bring down hopes for a democratically stable and economically growing South Asia, two of the United States policy objectives in the region. As for India, a departure from a long and admirable tradition of democracy and secularism would be political suicide.
 
SICHAN SIV
Washington, Feb. 27, 1993
 
The writer served in the Bush Administration as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); K (NYSE) (55%); RTN (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); KELLOGG CO (55%); RAYTHEON CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HINDUISM; ISLAM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS RELIGION (97%); FUNDAMENTALISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); WRITERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); TRENDS (68%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (65%); 

PERSON: P V NARASIMHA RAO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



330 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Shakespeare Festival Dismisses Papp's Heir

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
JoAnne Akalaitis, Joseph Papp's hand-picked successor as head of the New York Shakespeare Festival, has been asked to resign by the executive committee of the Festival's board. The action effectively ends her troubled 20-month reign as artistic director of one of the nation's most important nonprofit cultural institutions and its flagship, the Public Theater.
The 11-member committee has offered Ms. Akalaitis's post, with a new title of producer, to George C. Wolfe, the director and playwright who is best known for writing and staging the Broadway musical "Jelly's Last Jam." Committee members said that the actor Kevin Kline would also join the management team, though his proposed role was not specified. 
 Mr. Wolfe, should the full board approve his selection, would have complete authority over artistic decisions and management, much in the manner of Papp, the Festival's founder and producer. Under Ms. Akalaitis, Jason Steven Cohen, as producing director, presided over the management and administration of the Festival. Mr. Cohen would remain in his post, reporting to Mr. Wolfe.
 
Decision Was Unanimous
 Larry E. Condon, chairman of the executive committee, said that the 11-member committee decided unanimously on Thursday to recommend removing Ms. Akalaitis, and that the full board would vote on the matter at a meeting on Monday. Among the executive committee's members is Gail Merrifield Papp, Joseph Papp's widow.
Another committee member, Joan K. Davidson, said a preliminary canvassing of board members indicated "enthusiastic support" for dismissing Ms. Akalaitis and hiring Mr. Wolfe, who is currently preparing to stage the much-anticipated Broadway premiere of Tony Kushner's "Angels in America."
In an interview yesterday, Ms. Akalaitis said, "The board is having the meeting to fire me," adding that she had learned of the executive committee's recommendation from Mr. Condon on Thursday when she arrived at his office for a regularly scheduled business meeting. The news, she said, was "out of the blue," and she made it clear that she was leaving involuntarily.
"I want to say that I'm not resigning," she said. "I have been fired, or some verb like that. I think that's the verb."
Ms. Akalaitis, 55, has been the artistic director at the Festival since August 1991, when Papp, just before his death, picked her to succeed him. Though a theater director of acknowledged gifts, Ms. Akalaitis was widely seen throughout her tenure as lacking in the personal forcefulness and charisma that Papp used, over the course of 37 years, to forge the reputation of the Shakespeare Festival.
A tireless advocate and fund raiser for the Festival, as well as an ardent impresario with a populist artistic vision, Papp did the jobs it later took two people -- Ms. Akalaitis and Mr. Cohen -- to carry out. The Public Theater was renamed last year for Papp, and Ms. Akalaitis never really escaped from his shadow.
"It was a near impossible spot to move into," said Bernard Gersten, the executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater and a supporter of Ms. Akalaitis. "The New York Shakespeare Festival was made in Joe's image. The festival was Joe; Joe was the Festival."
 
Inherited Problems
 A declining economy and an erosion of charitable support, which plagued the last years of Papp's reign, hampered Ms. Akalaitis as well. The Festival's annual budget has been cut by more than one-third over the last three years, from $15 million to under $10 million, and the staff cut in half, to from 120 to 60.
Still, she was criticized on many fronts, with complaints ranging from her aloof, occasionally abrasive manner to her disdain for the fund-raising function of her position. She was also taken to task for her predilection for grim, arcane projects that many felt alienated the audience built up by Papp, and for not generating enough work to keep the five theaters at the Public busy.
Though films, lectures, readings and a new coffee bar in the lobby often keep the place occupied, there have been only 10 subscription offerings this season. Of those, only one, "Woyzeck" -- Georg Buchner's dark 19th-century drama, directed by Ms. Akalaitis -- was a full-length multi-character play whose production originated at the Shakespeare Festival. "Woyzeck," like Ms. Akalaitis's production last season of John Ford's Elizabethan drama " 'Tis Pity She's a Whore," got many positive reviews, but the moderate critical success could not offset the other problems Ms. Akalaitis faced.
"It was a mixture of things," said Ms. Davidson, when asked why the executive committee was dissatisfied with Ms. Akalaitis. "We became increasingly concerned that things were not working, largely because of the bifurcated leadership we had. It was a mess, frankly. Tensions were developing throughout the organization." She added that it was felt not enough work was being produced and that the work itself was not varied enough.
"I like Joanne a lot and respect her as an artist," Ms. Davidson said. "But I think there's a difference between being a talented director and a producer. We want the place to be hopping with all kinds of energy and activity, the way it was in Joe's glory days. We have felt a withering in the commitment and devotion of some of our longtime supporters, a lot of people who have been mainstays. We expect them to come bouncing back enthusiastically now."
Ms. Davidson said it was her understanding that if Mr. Kline joined the Festival staff it would be in an advisory position concerning productions of classics, particularly Shakespeare. Mr. Kline, who played Hamlet in a Papp production, could not be reached for comment yesterday.
Ms. Akalaitis said yesterday that she had been under the impression that her relations with the board were good, and spoke sharply in her own defense. "The box office on every show this year has exceeded projections," she said. "We've come in splendidly on production budgets. I was concerned about contributed income, individual and corporate, but I thought the theater was a lively, artistic, social, stimulating place. I was quite proud, and am proud, of the work that was done."
In the 38-year-old Mr. Wolfe, the Festival would be getting an energetic, highly esteemed writer and director, a man who first came to attention in the theater world in 1986 with his play "The Colored Museum," which was performed at the Public Theater. Papp made him a resident director at the Public, where he worked on many projects, including Anna Deavere Smith's acclaimed one-woman show of a year ago, "Fires in the Mirror."
It was his move uptown to Broadway, however, with "Jelly's Last Jam," that propelled him onto producers' A-lists and garnered him the choicest of this season's assignments on Broadway, "Angels in America," the epic play about AIDS and politics, Part 1 of which opens next month.
News of his impending appointment at the Festival provoked a torrent of praise.
"Isn't that great news?" said Margo Lion, a producer of both "Jelly's Last Jam" and "Angels." "He's going to bring that theater into the 90's."
Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters, said: "George is like Papp, and unlike JoAnne in that he has roots in both the uptown and downtown communities. He's straddled both camps."
 
'Emerging and Emerged'
 And Jason Steven Cohen, who would report to Mr. Wolfe, said: "Clearly in George Wolfe the board has made a choice of the most emerging and emerged writer-director the theatrical scene has to offer. It's so exciting to me that in the discussions I had with the board, I was prepared to step back a bit from my present position."
Reached during rehearsals of "Angels" yesterday, Mr. Wolfe confirmed he'd been spoken to by the executive comittee, and said he would take the job if it was offered by the board.
"The fundamental why is the chance to nurture other artists," he said.
Mr. Wolfe has no producing credits other than two series of performance pieces he has put on at the Public. "My credits are my credits," he said. "I haven't been running a theater company because I've been busy being an artist. If everything comes out to be right, as of Monday at 4 P.M. I'll begin that journey."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York Shakespeare Festival has asked JoAnne Akalaitis to resign as artistic director and George C. Wolfe to replace her. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times; Martha Swope)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL; PUBLIC THEATER (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL; PUBLIC THEATER (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS THEATER (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); WRITERS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (71%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; AKALAITIS, JOANNE; WOLFE, GEORGE C; KLINE, KEVIN; PAPP, JOSEPH STEVEN A COHEN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



331 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Defense Chief Lists 31 Big Bases For Closing, and Outcry Is Swift

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today issued its plan to shut scores of military posts, ports and airfields, and lawmakers with bases in their districts lost no time in expressing outrage.
Defense Secretary Les Aspin, contending that base closings have not kept pace with recent troop reductions, recommended shutting 31 big military installations and shrinking or consolidating 134 other depots and smaller operations. 
 With the end of the cold war and subsequent reductions in military budgets and forces, the Administration has begun slashing billions from the armed services' overhead to try to avoid reducing troop strength even more or stopping the modernization of America's arsenal.
Once the Pentagon spends $1.7 billion to close and clean up these installations, it expects to save $3.1 billion a year starting in 2000.
 
Devastation Foreseen
 But the plan has provoked an uproar on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers with bases in their district predicted economic devastation -- even while Congress is pressing President Clinton for deeper cuts in Pentagon spending.
"The mother of all base closure lists clobbers Charleston," said Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, who vowed to save the shipyard and naval station in Charleston and "develop a unified front to keep the Navy in South Carolina."
In the New York area, the plan will eliminate 12,790 military and civilian jobs and could cost the region more than $1 billion in lost wages, contracts and other benefits. [Page 8.]
For members of Congress, however, the outrage is partly political theater. While senators and representatives are likely to join civic groups in marshaling arguments against base closings in their districts, they do not face painful votes on the subject.
The decisions will be made by a Presidential commission set up to insulate Congress from angry constituents. Representatives and senators can curry favor with voters by inveighing against specific base closings while voting for the politically popular principle of military budget cuts that will ultimately force more bases to close.
The eight-member panel headed by former Representative James A. Courter, Republican of New Jersey, will have until July 1 to accept or alter the Administration's recommendations. Its decisions will then go to President Clinton, who will have until Sept. 1 to accept or reject them. If he approves the recommendations, only a negative vote by both houses of Congress can stop the process.
Lawmakers with no bases marked for closing in this round praised the plan and urged their less fortunate colleagues to sacrifice to eliminate obsolete installations and save taxpayers' money.
"While this process is never easy for members of Congress with bases in their districts, the long-term effect is overwhelmingly positive," said Representative Dick Armey, a Texas Republican whose district was spared this year but suffered two years ago when Carswell Air Force Base closed.
The Defense Department proposal includes winners as well as losers. Once some installations are shut or reduced in size, troops and civilian workers will be moved to other sites.
New Jersey would lose 6,500 troops and civilian employees, New York 4,000 and Connecticut 2,200. The Staten Island Home Port, the New London submarine base in Connecticut, and McGuire Air Force Base near Trenton would close or be severely reduced.
California would lose 32,000 military personnel and civilian workers, South Carolina 17,400, Florida 11,500 and Alabama 9,000. The bases listed for closing, including Homestead Air Force Base in Florida, Fort McClellan in Alabama and the Alameda Naval Station in California, are underused, too costly to maintain or no longer meet a long-term military requirement.
 
Some State May Gain
 On the other hand, Illinois would gain 9,000 military and civilian positions, largely by consolidating Navy training centers at San Diego and Orlando, Fla., into a third center near Chicago on Lake Michigan. Missouri would gain 5,800 military personnel or civilian workers, Washington State 5,500, North Carolina 5,300 and Georgia 5,000.
Mr. Clinton has tried to ease the pain of the base closings by offering $15 billion to $20 billion over five years to help hard-hit communities and workers. But that offered little solace to lawmakers.
As fax machines whirred around Washington and lawmakers held dueling news conferences across the country, California's Congressional delegation, already reeling from the effects of 17 bases that are being closed as a result of two previous cutbacks and a sagging military industry, issued a call to arms.
"We've just begun to fight," said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California.
 
Lobbying to Little Effect
 So far the lobbying by lawmakers and civic leaders this week had little effect on Mr. Aspin's decisions. The Defense Secretary spared only two military installations, both in California, that had been on the armed services' list of those that should close: McClellan Air Force Base near Sacramento and the Monterey Presidio, home of the Defense Language Institute.
Republicans immediately accused the Administration of partisan politics in reprieving the two California sites.
The Presidio is in the district formerly represented by Mr. Clinton's budget director, Leon E. Panetta. McClellan air base and depot is in the district of Representative Vic Fazio, who, as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, helps find financing for his colleagues' re-election campaigns.
"It's unconscionable to have politicized the process in this fashion," Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican on the Armed Services Committee, told the Associated Press.
 
Political Motives Denied
 Pentagon officials said politics had played no part in sparing the two installations. American intelligence agencies objected to closing the Defense Language Institute, and contracting for classes at universities, Pentagon officials said.
Closing McClellan, which employs more than 15,000 civilian workers, would hurt the local economy too much, Defense Department officials said.
While lawmakers will not have an opportunity to vote on individual base closings, they can try to alter the decisions by joining the civic groups that have begun lining up to lobby the Presidential commission that was set up to review the recommendations.
Mr. Aspin and Gen. Colin L. Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will testify in support of the Pentagon plan at the commission's first hearing on Monday.
Versatility helped some bases survive. The Air Force, for example, had more large bomber bases than it needed with a shrinking fleet of aircraft. Minot Air Force Base and Grand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota have Minuteman-3 long-range nuclear missiles as well as bombers, and were thus ranked more important that bases that are listed for closing like K. I. Sawyer in Michigan, which has only B-52's.
In other cases, the military plans to close parts of some bases. The Army, for instance, aims to shut all of Fort McClellan in Alabama, except for an enclave for Army reservists and buildings to keep open the Army's only live-agent chemical training center.
Few surprises appeared on the list as the names of many targets became became known within the last week. In fact, the biggest surprises were bases identified in news reports for closing that turned out never to have been among the recommendations to Mr. Aspin.
Several Pentagon officials had suggested, for example, that the Long Beach Naval Shipyard in California was on the list, but it never was. Long Beach residents, girding for the worst today, were jubilant. Fort Totten and Fort Hamilton in New York, which were also identified to be reduced in some reports, were not on the original Army list.
In a letter accompanying his report, Mr. Aspin warned that this round would bring the military bases and ports only in line with the last budget and troop cuts made by the Bush Administration.
Mr. Clinton has pledged to reduce the military by 200,000 more troops than Mr. Bush by 1997, and Mr. Aspin said he was confident that the future "will require more, not fewer, base closures than those I will recommend at this time."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Closings and Cuts At Major Bases" lists bases being closed or facing major cuts (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) MILITARY BASES (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); CLOSINGS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NAVIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); AIR FORCES (73%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ASPIN, LES (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); JAMES A COURTER (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



332 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
American Express is selling its Shearson brokerage unit to Primerica, the financial company run by Sandy Weill, a prominent empire builder in a business that is dominated by a bunch of anonymous suits. [Page 35.]
In a raw courtroom battle, Abraham Hirschfeld, a multimillionaire developer and perennial political candidate, beat out Steven Hoffenberg for the right to buy the ailing New York Post. [1.] 
 Transportation Secretary Pena reportedly recommended that British Air be allowed to make a big investment in USAir, signaling that the White House will eventually approve the deal. [35]
Allegheny Ludlum wants to acquire a smaller maker of specialty metals for $107 million in a move that comes as Allegheny's rivals in the steel industry are also bolstering their roles in the lucrative specialty metals market. [37.]
Omnicom, one of the world's biggest advertising companies, is set to add TBWA International to its other giant networks in a stock swap valued at about $100 million. [37.]
Time Warner's chairman reportedly is ready to name four new directors, including Carla Hills, the former trade representative, and Fay Vincent, the former baseball commissioner. [37.]
The Carroll family has made another offer to buy the 48 percent of Katy Industries that it does not already own. [37.]
 
The Economy
Producer prices surged 0.4 percent last month. The biggest rise in two years was mainly because of increases for motor vehicles, aircraft, cigarettes and home heating oil. [35.]
The top U.S. trade official has turned up the heat in trade disputes with Japan and the European Community. [35.]
Lawmakers whose districts include military installations that are scheduled for closing predicted economic devastation for those communities. [1.]
 
Markets
The remarkable rally in the Treasury bond market ran into the wall, with the long bond plunging more than 1 1/4 points, to a yield of 6.86 percent. [44.]
Stocks were sharply lower for the second straight session as investors used signs of higher inflation and rising instability in Russia as a reason to take profits. The Dow lost 29.18, to close at 3,427.82.[36.]
Sugar prices soared to the highest level in nearly two years, while orange juice futures fell. [46.]
The dollar gained as tensions in Russia rattled foreign exchange traders. [46.]
 
International
More than 200 people were killed and hundreds were injured as a series of powerful explosions thundered across Bombay, the financial capital of India. The 29-story Bombay Stock Exchange was the first target. [1.]
Japan's recession is deepening. The Government said one measure of the economy shrank again in the fourth quarter. [36.]
 
Your Money
One couple has managed to retire with an $800,000 nest egg. How did they do it? The rewards of disciplined saving. [33].
Some financial advisers wear their S.E.C. registrations like a badge, but that doesn't guarantee investors against a conflict of interest. [33].
To move to the head of the line for mortgage refinancing, get your personal financial resume in order. [33].
Some taxpayers are missing out on the full advantages of claiming exemptions for dependents. [34].
Using part of her divorce settlement, a Long Island woman goes from owning a fixer-upper home to owning a bed and breakfast. [34].

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); OMC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP (57%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (56%); KATY INDUSTRIES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); EUROPE (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); METALS MARKETS (75%); AIRLINES (75%); FUTURES (75%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); RECESSION (70%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INFLATION (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); HEATING OIL (65%); FOOD PRICES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); BASEBALL (52%); 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



333 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Sink on Worries On Inflation and Russia

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Stock prices fell sharply yesterday for the second straight session as investors used signs of higher inflation and rising political instability in Russia as a reason to take profits after the market's recent surge.
The selling began early: computer-driven program trades were executed soon after the Labor Department reported that producer prices posted their biggest monthly increase in more than two years in February. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 50 points in the first half-hour of trading, setting off the New York Stock Exchange's uptick rule, which limits computer-driven sell orders.
 
 
Dow Breaks Its Fall

 Stocks stabilized somewhat after the opening, and the Dow rebounded from its lows in the final two hours of trading to close at 3,427.82, down 29.18. For the week, the Dow was up 23.24 points.
Broader market indexes fared somewhat better. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell by 3.89, to 449.83, while the Russell 2000 index slipped by 0.87, to 229.53, and the Nasdaq's composite index of over-the-counter stocks fell by 1.50, to 692.78.
On the Big Board, declining issues outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 2.
While the four-tenths of a point rise in wholesale prices reported yesterday was a surprise and served as a catalyst for the stock market's decline, analysts said the message that inflation might be coming back carried more meaning for the bond market than for stocks.
That message was heard loud and clear by bond traders, who drove prices of Government securities down by more than a point and pushed the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond to 6.86 percent, from 6.76 percent on Thursday.
 
 
'A Reality Check'
 "All sorts of wonderful assumptions have been made about the bond market," said Peter Canelo, chief market strategist at NatWest Securities, "from the thought that you can't lose buying bonds because either the deficit will be cut or Clinton's plan will kill off the economy, or that inflation is nothing to worry about. What happened today gave those notions a reality check."
Laszlo Birinyi, who runs his own stock research firm, said that at this juncture the performance of the bond market was not "critically important" to the stock market.
Rather, Mr. Birinyi interpreted yesterday's selloff in stocks as a classic response to a market that has run too far, too fast.
"Market technicians will tell you that if over a 10-day period the average number of advancing issues exceeds those declining in price by more than 2,000, the market is overbought," he said. "Earlier this week we were at plus 4,000. We had a very overbought situation which was begging for a correction."
 
 
Technology High-Fliers
 Mr. Birinyi and others said they were impressed with the resilience of recent high-fliers in the technology sector like Intel, which closed yesterday at 117 5/8, up 3/4, and Compaq Computer, which rose 1, to 51 5/8.
Novell, another personal computer manufacturer, was the most actively traded Nasdaq issue, rising 1 3/4, to 35 a share.
Interest-rate-sensitive stocks were hit hard by the sharp selloff in the bond market.
The Federal National Mortgage Association's stock fell 3/4, to 82. And the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation declined 1 1/2, to 47 3/4.
American Express, which announced it had sold the brokerage operations of Shearson Lehman Brothers to Primerica Inc. for about $1 billion in cash and securities, finished up 5/8, at 28, in heavy trading. Primerica rose 1 1/2, to 49 1/2.
Gambling stocks moved higher. Showboat Inc. was one of the day's biggest gainers on the Big Board, rising 3 1/8, to 20, after receiving news it could operate a riverboat casino in New Orleans. And Circus Circus Enterprises was up 2 3/4, to 49, after a Morgan Stanley analyst, Kurt Fuerman, upgraded his rating on the stock to buy from hold.
Overseas, Japanese stocks ended firmer yesterday. The Nikkei index of 225 issues gained 132.73 points, to 18,037.52.
But British stocks dropped sharply. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-stock index fell 37.5 points yesterday, to 2,915.9.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); WHOLESALE PRICES (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); POLITICS (73%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



334 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Rise 0.4%; Biggest Increase in 2 Years

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Producer prices spurted four-tenths of 1 percent in February, the biggest jump in more than two years, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
The report took investors by surprise and rattled the bond and stock markets. Financial markets watch the Producer Price Index -- which covers only the prices of domestically made goods, and excludes services and imports -- for clues to broader inflation trends and likely moves by the Federal Reserve. 
 In the bond market, the remarkable rally that had pulled interest rates to historic lows appeared to have stalled yesterday, with rates rising sharply. [Page 44.] And the stock market fell steeply for the second straight day, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 29.18 points, to 3,427.82. [Page 36.]
The surge in the Labor Department's index was mainly a result of big price increases for motor vehicles, civilian aircraft and cigarettes -- along with a 1.7 percent surge in the price of home heating oil. These increases offset a drop in the prices of raw energy and some vegetables. Even excluding food and energy, producer prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent last month.
Cautioning that a single month does not make a trend, many economists interpreted the report as a sign that the inflation rate for consumer prices -- which has been declining for two years -- was more likely to level out than to keep going down.
"It tends to cast doubt on the argument that inflationary pressures will decline further this year," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company. "There was a signficant body of opinion, even among the 12 Federal Reserve presidents, that inflation could move lower this year. These numbers challenge that view."
As it turns out, a survey of purchasing managers released two weeks ago had already signaled that prices for raw materials, parts and supplies were firming. "The markets ignored it," said Robert Bretz, director of corporate purchasing at Pitney Bowes. "I think they wanted to."
The fact that many farmers and manufacturers are able to make price increases stick is a classic sign of economic expansion. "The P.P.I. suggests that there's a little bit of commodity and industrial price pressure in the system," said Richard Rippe, chief economist at Prudential Securities. "It's a sign of an economy that's doing a little better."
For the first two months of 1993, producer prices rose at an annual rate of 3.4 percent, more than double the 1.6 percent increase last year.
Still, most economists and executives generally do not expect inflation to take off. Despite last month's spurt, prices of finished goods are just 1.8 percent higher than they were a year ago.
 
Temporary Increases
 Most economists expect the Consumer Price Index, which was rising at a 6 percent annual rate as recently as 1990, to rise 3 percent this year, the same as last year. The Government will report the Consumer Price Index for February on Wednesday.
Economists regard the jump in energy and food prices reported yesterday as temporary. World supplies of both are ample, Mr. Perna said.
More important, the biggest influence on inflation, the cost of labor, is rising at its slowest pace in nearly two decades. Pay and benefits rose at a 3.5 percent rate for the last year. In the same period, productivity, or output per hour worked, grew at nearly a 3 percent rate.
But that does not mean that the downward trend in labor costs is likely to continue. Employers are starting to end their pay freezes and grant the occasional raise. And productivity, which soared at a 4.8 percent rate in last year's final quarter, is extremely unlikely to keep rocketing.
"One of the mistakes the bond market made is to listen to a lot of talk about how inflation continues to decline early in the recovery," Mr. Perna said. "They forgot that we've been in the early stages of a recovery for almost two years."
In a separate report yesterday, the Commerce Department said business sales slipped two-tenths of 1 percent in January -- the first decline in five months -- to a seasonally adjusted $575.4 billion.
But at the same time, businesses were keeping inventories in check -- a good sign for the recovery. The level of goods held in storage was unchanged for the month, at a seasonally adjusted $840.4 billion. The inventory-to-sales ratio was also unchanged at 1.46, meaning it would take 1.46 months to exhaust the backlog at the current sales pace. It suggests that factories would not have to cut production to keep inventories in line with sales.

GRAPHIC: Graph: 'Producer Prices'; Index of finished goods prices since Sept., 1992 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (66%); PITNEY BOWES INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES; STOCKS AND BONDS PRODUCER PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HEATING OIL (74%); HEATING OIL PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



335 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeking U.N. Pressure to Compel North Korea to Honor Treaty

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Expressing alarm at North Korean defiance, the United States sought allied agreement today on a plan to enlist the United Nations Security Council in compelling Pyongyang to honor its commitment to open nuclear installations to inspectors.
Within hours after North Korea said it was pulling out of an international treaty requiring those inspections, the State Department called on Pyongyang to withdraw that announcement immediately. But United States officials, who suspect North Korea of hiding evidence of its efforts to build nuclear weapons, expressed little optimism that it would back down voluntarily. 
 The officials warned that North Korea's abandonment of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty could reverse years of progress in seeking stability on the Korean peninsula. A senior Administration official tonight described the North Korean action as "a very serious step" and added, "It needs to be turned around."
 
Ultimatum Sought
 While its exact details remained to be worked out, the officials said the main plan of response being discussed with American allies would call upon the Security Council to issue an ultimatum threatening North Korea with economic sanctions.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher held out hope today that the North Koreans might "withdraw their withdrawal." He made clear, however, that Security Council action would be a leading option "if they continue on the path that they are on."
North Korea has cast its withdrawal from the accord as a protest against joint military exercises being conducted by the United States and South Korea. But senior United States officials said today that they regarded that assertion as an excuse.
They said that North Korea instead appeared determined to protect materials necessary for its nuclear weapons program, and that it had concluded that the program would be discovered if international inspectors gained access to two sites believed to be secret nuclear installations.
 
Weapon May Exist
 As the State Department issued a statement "deploring" the North Korean move, other United States officials said American concerns had been heightened by a Central Intelligence Agency warning that Pyongyang might already have produced enough material to build a nuclear weapon.
That assessment has been questioned in the past by other Government officials. But Lawrence Eagleburger, who left office in January as Secretary of State, told a Congressional committee this week that he believed North Korea had built such a weapon.
Mr. Christopher said today that the North Korean action "raises many suspicions in our minds."
After announcing its decision in Pyongyang, North Korea gave the Security Council formal notification today of its intent to withdraw from the nonproliferation treaty, which it signed in 1985. But the strong protests today by the United States, Japan and other countries appeared intended to persuade North Korea to reconsider.
 
Called for Inspections
 The State Department also made clear that even such a move would not end North Korea's obligations. It said it would expect Pyongyang to honor terms of the treaty requiring that a country's installations remain open for inspection for 90 days after its withdrawal.
For the United States, which only a few months ago remained optimistic that North Korea was ready to provide nuclear inspectors with full access to its nuclear facilities, the announced withdrawal from the accord represents a substantial setback. It followed North Korea's abrupt refusal this year to allow inspections of two secret sites.
The International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations body responsible for enforcing the accords, last month gave North Korea until March 25 to give inspectors access.
 
U.S. Called 'Unjust'
 North Korea insisted that the two installations "have no relevance at all to nuclear facilities" and said its withdrawal would stand until the agency abandoned its "unjust conduct" and the United States nuclear threat was removed.
The State Department insisted that the military exercises had nothing to do with planning for nuclear war.
Government officials with access to intelligence reports said today that North Korea appeared to have moved armored military vehicles to positions guarding the sites. But they said they believed the move was an attempt to add to the perception that the plants were military installations rather than any effort to prepare for attack.
United States officials said today that the atomic energy agency would probably be the first international body to review the new North Korean defiance. But the officials said the United States believed thst the matter should quickly be turned over to the Security Council for enforcement.
Another possible step would be for the United States to make permanent the moratorium it has already announced on withdrawals of the 37,400 United States troops still based in South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (67%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ACCORD AS (67%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TREATIES; NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



336 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

DATELINE: NEW YORK CITY

 BODY:

BOMBING INQUIRY REOPENS KAHANE CASE
Amid a widening investigation into the search for more suspects and motives in the bombing of the World Trade Center, the New York City police have reopened their investigation of the assassination of Rabbi Meir Kahane, a top police official said. Page 1. 
 New precautions at underground garages around the city and the country. Page 24.
 
 
 
POST OUSTERS: HOFFENBERG AND HAMILL
 In a raw courtroom battle, Abraham Hirschfeld, a multimillionaire developer and perennial political candidate, beat out Steven Hoffenberg for the right to buy the ailing New York Post. Mr. Hirschfeld immediately dismissed Pete Hamill, The Post's recently hired editor. Page 1.
The new bidder for The Post has deep pockets and a higher profile. Page 25.
 
 
WINNER DECLARED IN COUNCIL RACE
 Andrew S. Eristoff, a Republican and a 30-year-old lawyer, was declared the winner of a special election to represent the East Side of Manhattan on the New York City Council. Page 25.
 
CONTRACT OFFER FOR FIREFIGHTERS
 New York City's firefighters would receive a 4.5 percent raise in exchange for working more hours each year and performing a wider variety of tasks, under a proposed contract. Page 25.
 
3 OFFICERS ARRESTED IN HEROIN SALE
 Two New York City police officers and a New York State police investigator have been arrested on charges that they sold almost $25,000 worth of heroin, Federal and local law-enforcement officials announced. Page 25.
 
TEACHERS CHARGED IN TWO INCIDENTS
 A teacher at a Brooklyn school has been charged with raping a 12-year-old student, and a teacher at a Bronx school was arrested on charges of assaulting a student. Page 26.
The three principal owners of the Sloan's Supermarkets chain have been arrested in a $3 million coupon-fraud scheme. Page 25.
Officials concede that public hospitals provide inadequate care for women. Page 24.
 
REGION
 
 
 
PARTIAL VERDICT IN ASSAULT TRIAL
 In a day of bizarre twists, the jury in the Glen Ridge sex-assault trial reached a verdict on five of nine charges against four former football players charged with assaulting a retarded schoolmate four years ago. But the verdict remained a secret because the jury chose not to return a partial decision. It was widely suspected, however that the jury had agreed to convict the four defendants. Page 27.
 
PLANNED MILITARY CUTS ANNOUNCED
 The Pentagon's plan to close or shrink military bases will eliminate 12,790 military and civilian jobs in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and could cost the region more than $1 billion in lost wages, contracts and other benefits, economists and Government officials said. Page 8.
Wassaic, N.Y., is wooing a Metro North train to prosperity. Page 27.
Governor Cuomo will preserve the law requiring screening of child-care workers. Page 27.
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SLO (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: GRISTEDE'S FOODS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLICE FORCES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ARRESTS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); JURY TRIALS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CITIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); HEROIN (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (58%); LAYOFFS (55%); HOSPITALS (50%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: MEIR KAHANE (58%); WILLIAM 'PETE' HAMILL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



337 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Military Cuts at Bases in New York Region Is Put at Over $1 Billion

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

 BODY:
The Pentagon's plan to close or shrink military bases will eliminate 12,790 military and civilian jobs in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and could cost the region more than $1 billion in lost wages, contracts and other benefits, economists and government officials said yesterday.
In relation to the region's civilian work force of 12.7 million, the proposed cuts are small. But that is scant consolation for an area that has lost 995,000 civilian jobs in the last four years, and that still faces big job cuts at companies ranging from banks to weapons producers. 
 "This is just another substantial obstacle to contend with," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a branch of the Department of Labor.
The only major military base in the region facing outright closure is the Navy's Home Port on Staten Island, which would lose its 1,773 military and 1,001 civilian jobs and six ships.
"It casts a pall over the Staten Island community," said Guy V. Molinari, the borough's president who, along with other New York officials, vowed to fight the proposal. Staten Island's unemployment rate is almost 10 percent.
 
McGuire Losses Listed
 McGuire Air Force Base near Wrightstown in Burlington County, N.J., whose main missions are air transport and refueling planes, stands to lose 3,289 of its military and 374 of its civilian jobs. It now employs 11,700 people: 2,200 civilians, 5,410 full-time military personnel and 4,090 part-time reservists and National Guardsmen.
Fort Monmouth, at Eatontown in Monmouth County, N.J., would lose the headquarters of the Army Communications Electronic Command, resulting in the loss of 425 military and 2,122 civilian jobs.
In central New York, Griffiss Air Force Base in Rome would lose 3,338 military and 1,191 civilian jobs out of a total of about 8,000. It would lose an engineering installation group, an air-refueling squadron and a bomber wing.
Smaller installations in New York State -- in Garden City, Jamestown, Poughkeepsie, Niagara Falls and Scotia -- would lose 117 military and 77 civilian employees. But two bases in New York would gain from the Pentagon proposal: employment at the Plattsburgh Air Force Base in Clinton County on Lake Champlain and the Air Force's Stewart Annex in Orange Country would increase by 3,102 and 396, respectively.
The Groton, Conn., submarine base would have a net loss of 2,227 of its 10,700 jobs. But the news was not as bad as many had feared. Although the base would lose its 19 submarines, its hospital would be retained and its training school enlarged.
"We thought we were going to get killed; instead, we just got wounded," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut.
Electric Boat, the submarine-building division of the General Dynamics Corporation, has cut employment at its Groton yard to 13,200 from 18,000 in the mid-1980's.
Across the Thames River in New London, a Navy laboratory, the Undersea Warfare Center, plans to slash employment to 500 in 1995 from 1,379 now. And in nearby Montville, UNC Inc.'s Naval Products division, which makes nuclear reactors for submarines and warships, is going out of business: It has cut employment to 25 from 1,073 three years ago.
As in Connecticut, officials in New York and New Jersey said that while their states as a whole might be able to absorb the blow, the same might not be true of the communities near the bases. "For the localities it is a big number," said Norman J. Glickman, director of Rutgers University's Center of Urban Policy Research.
Mr. Molinari's office expected the Home Port, which opened in 1990, to spend about $375 million on payroll, construction, contracts and services this year. And with ship repairs already generating $30 million a year, New York officials have been hoping that the expanding fleet might enable them to reopen the Brooklyn Naval Yard, creating thousands of jobs. The Home Port shutdown "would close the book on that concept completely," Mr. Molinari said.
The Federal Government estimates that Griffiss Air Force Base directly and indirectly contributed $753 million to its surrounding communities in the year ended last Sept. 30. "The loss in central New York would be horrendous," said Vincent Tese, New York State's director of economic development.
The unemployment rate in the Rome-Utica area was 7.7 percent in January, down from 10 percent a year earlier. There are only 121,300 non-agricultural jobs in the area, which has lost 5,300 manufacturing jobs in the last decade.
The cuts at the two New Jersey bases would also have a severe impact on their communities, where the unemployment rate is 7.4 percent, economists and government officials said.
 
'A 'Setback' for New Jersey
 "It's a setback, there's no question about that," said Barbara W. McConnell, New Jersey's Commissioner of Commerce and Economic Development, noting that state's overall unemployment rate has been falling.
Because of the economic ripple effect from the military cuts, her department estimates that the state would lose 7 jobs for every 10 jobs lost at the military bases. Using that ratio, the 6,564 proposed military-job cuts would eliminate nearly 4,600 other jobs.
In Monmouth County, the proposed cuts at Fort Monmouth "would have a devastating effect on retail trade and services," said Allen Green, an analyst at the State Department of Labor.
Many residents of Burlington County, where McGuire is situated, now work at the Philadelphia Naval Yard, which was marked for closure in a previous round of cuts. The county was also hit by 3,500 jobs cut by the Army in recent years at Fort Dix.
"The towns around McGuire will be hard-pressed to replace many of the jobs lost," Mr. Glickman said. The Federal Government estimates that McGuire contributes $1.1 billion annually to the regional economy.
From Rome, N.Y., to Washington, government officials vowed to try to get yesterday's recommendations overturned. Representative Sherwood L. Boehlert, a Republican from upstate New York, said closing Griffiss would be "one of the dumbest decisions ever to come out of the Pentagon."

GRAPHIC: Map of the metropolitan area highlighting military bases

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); US NAVY (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); US NAVY (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); STATISTICS (69%); CITIES (66%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



338 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Building a Wall Street Empire, Again

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
They call it Primerica Inc., but Weill Enterprises would be more descriptive. With Wall Street's other corporations now run by a bunch of anonymous suits -- goodbye, John Gutfreund; so long, Jim Robinson -- Sandy Weill's portly profile has loomed up as the investment world's most prominent empire builder.
He has arrived there not by the route of 1980's excess, but by 1990's economizing, at least in matters corporate. His specialty has been taking the least glamorous financial businesses -- insurance, consumer finance, mass-market brokerage -- and running them like industrial plants, making all the necessary cutbacks and layoffs, and then some. 
 As such, Sanford I. Weill stood out on Wall Street even before his agreement to buy Shearson Lehman promised to make his brokerage operation the equal of Merrill Lynch's -- with even more money under management, he points out.
In a business where analysts and money managers get paid good money to size up the performance of executives everywhere else, effective leadership has often been lacking, with profits as erratic as the price of some hot new riverboat casino stock.
At Primerica, profits have flowed as steadily as the rivers under those boats, with the stock price rising from the upper teens to 49 1/2 since Mr. Weill took over in December 1988.
Not that Mr. Weill, a few days shy of 60, is known for saying "Pretty please with sugar on top" to get what he wants. "Don't screw up" is perhaps his most printable warning, and that's what he always said to the last person brave enough to be his boss, James D. Robinson 3d. Until recently, Mr. Robinson was the chief executive of American Express, where Mr. Weill was president until 1985.
"Nobody ever taught me how to behave," Mr. Weill said. "That's why I'm not there anymore."
 
Selling and Buying Shearson
 Yesterday, that thought brightened his open features as he reviewed his Shearson purchase at his penthouse office suite in Manhattan. He sold Shearson to American Express for about $930 million in 1981. American Express more than doubled its brokerage force, spending billions more, and now Mr. Weill is taking back what he sold and the other parts he most wants for about $1 billion.
Mr. Robinson himself is among the appreciative Primerica shareholders. How many shares? "Not enough," Mr. Robinson said. Mr. Weill's own stake in Primerica is worth more than $100 million.
Mr. Weill has had a fireplace installed near his Primerica office, but he sounds wistful for the one he had built in his Shearson and American Express days on the 106th floor of the World Trade Center -- listed in the record books, he said, as the highest fireplace in any building. Published cost estimates have run into the hundreds of thousands, but Mr. Weill said the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the landlord, threw it in free.
Mr. Weill's other office decorations run from the imperial to the purposefully humble. Instead of just a top honcho's usual grip-and-grin photographs with this or that President, he has an autographed picture of five Presidents together, framed with a letter from Gerald R. Ford, an honorary Primerica board member. But above his Chesterfield sofa hangs a picture of the yellow stucco three-family home in Bensonhurst where he grew up.
 
Dealing With Golub
 Now he's a godfather in more ways than one. He brought Harvey Golub, another blunt Brooklynite, into American Express to manage a major unit, then became godfather to one of Mr. Golub's children. As soon as Mr. Golub was chosen to succeed Mr. Robinson a few weeks ago, Mr. Weill called up to revive his failed 1990 bid for Shearson. Now, Mr. Weill said, he got a much better deal than he could have three years ago.
"He can certainly buy at the right price," said Howard Clark Sr., a former American Express chairman, noting how eager the company was to get rid of Shearson.
Again and again, Mr. Weill has snapped up businesses -- "the more hum-drum the better," he said -- that others want to dump, bringing in his own young disciples and scarred veterans of other corporate battles, many from Shearson and American Express. "He takes cast-off people and makes them winners and he takes cast-off companies and makes them winners," said John J. Byrne Jr., who succeeded Mr. Weill as chief of Fireman's Fund, an insurance company that American Express once owned.
"Sandy does go after costs," Mr. Byrne said. "To a man with a hammer, everything looks like a nail."
The nails that stick out the most, in Mr. Weill's view, are any people or divisions that fail to produce adequate sales or profits. At Fireman's Fund, he sliced away at the offices of public relations, legislative affairs and the general counsel, loudly asking why $500 million in computer spending had failed to improve efficiency.
 
The Early Days
 His first cost-cutting campaigns came when he and three friends put their names on the door and began selling stocks in 1960. With more than 15 acquisitions, he built what became Shearson Lehman Brothers, the nation's second-largest brokerage firm, keeping the big producers but dismissing managers and squeezing back offices as he went.
During the year or two after he left American Express and before he began buying the businesses that make up Primerica, he stayed in circulation as co-chairman of another salvage operation, a $60 million fundraising drive to fix up New York's most famed musical landmark. Another industry leader had long ago bestowed his name on Carnegie Hall, but Mr. Weill's $2.5 million donation put his own name on a part of the building, the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Recital Hall. His favorite composer is Mahler, whose noisy, angst-ridden symphonies might recall some of Mr. Weill's business meetings.
 
No More Cigars
 Some associates are now breathing easier, however, because they no longer feel compelled to demonstrate their loyalty by smoking cigars. Mr. Weill gave up his trademark stogies seven months ago in a deal with a 4-year-old grandson, pressuring his chief administrative officer to quit smoking cigarettes at the same time. Mr. Weill said that only if he stays clean until the end of the year will he give away his stash of rare pre-Castro Cuban cigars.
Mr. Weill and his wife, Joan, their two children grown and a fourth grandchild due momentarily, shuttle between a New York apartment, a Connecticut home and an Adirondacks retreat. The Weills both play tennis, but seldom together. "We prefer to keep the marriage going," his wife said. "The one thing I can tell you about Sandy is, he is very consistent in whatever he does."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: PRI (NYSE) (95%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (95%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PRIMERICA INC; SHEARSON LEHMAN BROTHERS INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO PRIMERICA INC (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRIMERICA INC; SHEARSON LEHMAN BROTHERS INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); CASINOS (53%); 

PERSON: WEILL, SANFORD I; MYERSON, ALLEN R SANDY WEILL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



339 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Religion Notes

BYLINE: By Ari L. Goldman

 BODY:

Stereotyping of Muslims
Protestant, Jewish, Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox groups warned in separate statements this week against stereotyping Muslims because of the arrest of three Muslims in connection with the bombing of the World Trade Center. 
 "We don't deny there are extremists," said the Rev. Joan B. Campbell, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, which represents more than 30 Protestant and Orthodox denominations. "There are extremists of many different faiths, including Christians. But we must be clear that the problem is the extremism, not the faith group."
Earlier this week, after Nidal A. Ayyad of Maplewood, N.J., became the third Muslim to be arrested in the bombing, Ms. Campbell warned of the danger that all Muslims "will become characterized as terrorists."
The Union of American Hebrew Congregations also warned against imputing collective guilt, saying that to do so would be unethical and un-American. "We deplore those who hold all members of the American Muslim community as co-conspirators in the attack," the statement said. "This notion of collective responsibility is the seedbed of prejudice and intolerance -- anathema to the ideals of American society."
The statement was issued by Rabbi Gary Bretton-Granatoor, director of interreligious affairs of the union, which represents 850 Reform synagogues in North America.
The National Conference of Catholic Bishops in Washington said that, for now, it was leaving the matter to local diocese for comment. Among the local reactions was one from the Diocese of Rockville Centre, L.I. The statement echoed the Protestant and Jewish warnings against collective guilt and added an attack on the news media.
"The press often portrays the conflict between religious groups as if religion itself were the cause and not the excuse for the fighting," the statement said. "We call upon our news media to distinguish between religious beliefs and the ways in which religion is used as a tool for seeking power."
Among those who signed the statement were Msgr. Donald M. Beckmann of the Rockville Centre diocese, the Rev. Edward Pehanich and the Rev. Michael Mihalick of the Orthodox Church, and Al-Haaj Ghazi Y. Khankan of the National Council on Islamic Affairs.
 
The Image of Islam
 Concern about Muslim stereotyping was also expressed yesterday at the Islamic Center of New York, the new mosque in Manhattan at 96th Street and Third Avenue. Noting the recent arrests in connection with the World Trade Center bombing, Imam Abdel-Rachman Osman said, "It is our duty to give people the good image of Islam." He urged the 1,000 people who came for the noon prayer to "preach Islam by our own behavior."
"The spotlight is on us, and we must prove we are a peaceful people," he said. "We must teach that Islam comes from the word 'salam,' which means 'peace.' We are a religion of peace."
Imam Osman, who came to New York from Egypt to lead the mosque, also decried what he described as a double standard in the news media. When bombs go off in London, he said, the accused are called "freedom fighters or the Irish Army," rather than Christian militants. "Only when it happens to Muslims is the whole community blamed," he said.
 
Dominican Priest Expelled
 The Rev. Matthew Fox, a Roman Catholic priest who has tweaked church traditionalists with his blending of historic Christianity with New Age philosophies, has been formally expelled by the Vatican from the religious order he joined 34 years ago.
The 52-year-old Dominican priest, who preaches what he calls "creation spirituality" from an institute he founded in Oakland, Calif., was told of the decision on Wednesday. It came from the Vatican through the Midwestern Province of the Dominican order in Chicago, which had sought the dismissal.
To the end, Father Fox insisted he was under attack because of his teachings, which have included Eastern spiritualities, feminism and environmentalism.
Dominican officials said the issue was simply a matter of discipline. "Our decision," said the Rev. Donald J. Goergen, who heads the Dominican's Midwest Province, "was never a judgment on his theology, spirituality or ministry." Rather, he said, it was over Father Fox's refusal to return to Chicago in his home province.
 
Protestant Journal to Close
 Christianity and Crisis, a journal of mainline liberal Protestant thought, is preparing its last issue after 52 years of publication.
Leon Howell, the editor, announced this week in a letter to its 13,000 subscribers that the biweekly journal, founded by the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, would close because of financial problems. "It has as much to do with the economics of publishing and skyrocketing postage rates and insurance costs as it does with the disarray in the 'mainline,' " Mr. Howell said.
He said that "only a miracle" could save Christianity and Crisis at this point, but he did not discount the possibility that an angel could be found at the last minute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON COMPENSATION INSURANCE INC (70%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (57%); UNION OF AMERICAN HEBREW CONGREGATIONS (56%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (57%); UNION OF AMERICAN HEBREW CONGREGATIONS (56%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ISLAM; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM RELIGION (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); ARRESTS (89%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (79%); CONSPIRACY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); ETHICS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



340 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Abe Hirschfeld: A Winner In Land If Not in Politics

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

 BODY:
Abraham Hirschfeld, who appears set to assume ownership of The New York Post, has no more experience running a newspaper than Steven Hoffenberg did when he stepped forward two months ago. But he does have deeper pockets and a higher profile.
Mr. Hirschfeld, who amassed a fortune by building garages and added to it with a successful health-club business, is best known in New York as a perennial candidate for public office. 
 He has run for United States Senator, Lieutenant Governor, City Council President and, most recently, for the Congressional seat that represents primarily the Upper East Side of Manhattan. In New York, he has lost every time, although he was elected a commissioner, or local legislator, in Miami Beach in 1990.
He has also served in New York as the Democratic Party's state treasurer and as a member of the Electoral College.
Born 73 years ago in Poland, Mr. Hirschfeld has been called eccentric, offensive and worse by political opponents in the heat of a campaign, and unlike other politicians, he does not always make an effort to patch things up afterward.
When he ran for Lieutenant Governor against Stan Lundine in 1986, he earned the lasting enmity of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who succeeded in getting Mr. Hirschfeld thrown off the ballot and who refused to speak to him long afterward.
 
Disputes With Press
 Mr. Hirschfeld has also had his share of disputes with the press. In 1990, he spat in the face of a reporter for The Miami Herald at a hotel he owns in Miami Beach, the Clarion Castle Hotel and Resort, because he was unhappy with the newspaper's coverage of the city's efforts to shut the hotel for violating building and fire codes. In New York, he once spat in the face of the former State Assembly Speaker, Stanley Steingut.
In 1987, Mr. Hirschfeld started a brief campaign to draft Donald Trump for President, saying the entrepreneur was the nation's best hope to solve economic problems. His efforts fizzled quickly.
The exact size of Mr. Hirschfeld's fortune has been obscured by the plummeting real-estate market in New York City, but he said yesterday that he is worth more than $10 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POST NEW YORK POST CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POST

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CITIES (70%); RESORTS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: HOFFENBERG, STEVEN; HIRSCHFELD, ABRAHAM; FAISON, SETH DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



341 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Advances on Fears Of Russian Political Turmoil

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar edged higher yesterday as the political tensions in Russia rattled the foreign exchange markets.
The dollar's gains against the German mark were, however, tempered by the mark's strength against other European currencies. 
 Gold for current delivery rose 90 cents, to $328, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The Republic National Bank quoted gold late in the day at $328, up 85 cents.
 The dollar continued to profit from its role as a safe haven currency as the battle between President Boris Yeltsin of Russia and hard-liners in the Parliament escalated. At one point there were reports, later discounted, that troops were approaching the Kremlin. Parliament is set to meet again today.
 Dealers said the dollar firmed because many felt safer holding dollars over the weekend in case the Russian situation worsened.
 Expectations that the German central bank might ease interest rates when its council meets on Thursday were also helping the dollar, dealers said.
 "The two things the market is looking at is the Russian situation over the weekend and the Bundesbank meeting next week," said Robert Ryan, vice president at Bank of New York.
 But one factor that dealers believe will encourage an easing of German interest rates, the precariousness of the European Monetary System, actually aided the German currency, as several European central banks bought their national currencies and sold marks.
 Dealers said Portugal, Sweden, Finland and possibly France intervened to shore up their currencies.
 The dollar ended at 1.6640 marks in New York trading, up from 1.6615 marks Thursday. Earlier in London, the dollar ended at 1.6655 marks, above Thursday's 1.6630 marks.
 In Tokyo, the dollar ended at 117.85 yen, down from Thursday's 118.09 yen. In London, it fell to 117.70 yen from Thursday's 117.65 yen. In New York, the dollar rose to 118.00 yen, from 117.65 Thursday.
In London, the pound rose to $1.4350, from $1.4343 Thursday. It softened in New York to $1.4337, unchanged from $1.4337 Thursday.
 Other late dollar rates, compared with Thursday's quotes in the United States, included: 1.5181 Swiss francs, down from 1.5230; 5.6550 French francs, up from 5.6440; 1,607 Italian lire, down from 1,608, and 1.2444 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2465.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); JAPAN (79%); FINLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (70%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; UNITED STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); JAPAN (79%); FINLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); GERMAN MARK (92%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); 

PERSON: BORIS YELTSIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



342 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Turns Up the Heat on Trade

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Raising the temperature in two trade disputes, the nation's top trade official today strongly criticized the Japanese Government's stance on a computer chips agreement and canceled trans-Atlantic talks aimed at heading off American trade sanctions.
The European Community and the Japanese Embassy here responded indignantly. The language used today by all three sides was remarkably brusque and irritable, testimony to a growing tension in trade relations provoked by President Clinton's new and more confrontational approach to international negotiations. 
 Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, canceled negotiations in Brussels, scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, because of what he described as European inflexibility. The European Community had shown no willingness to suspend or cancel a government purchasing regulation that the United States had deemed protectionist, Mr. Kantor said.
 
 
Federal Contracts
 With no further talks scheduled, Mr. Kantor said that an American ban on bids from European companies for certain Federal contracts, "will almost certainly go into effect" on March 22, as previously threatened. The ban would cover about $45 billion of contracts, mostly for local services like the operation of cafeterias in Government buildings. European companies typically win only $50 million a year of these contracts.
The community had offered to suspend one of the new regulation's provisions that offended the United States, but not the entire regulation, a European Community official said. "How could we be flexible if we're not even allowed to meet?" asked the official, who insisted on anonymity.
Mr. Kantor also accused Tokyo today of making excuses for Japan's likely failure to meet an officially agreed target for imports of computer chips.
He told reporters in a hastily scheduled telephone conference today that he was upset by a Japanese Government official's contention on Thursday that American semiconductor producers had canceled certain shipments to Japan.
A 1991 bilateral trade agreement called for non-Japanese semiconductor makers to hold 20 percent of the Japanese market by the end of 1992. Although final figures will not be released until the end of next week, industry officials expect that the actual market share was around 17.5 percent in the fourth quarter.
The Japanese electronics industry has been seeking to deflect blame by gathering figures on canceled American shipments to Japanese computer chip users. An official at Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry leaked on Thursday some figures suggesting that canceled shipments represented at least three-tenths of 1 percent of the Japanese market.
"The Japanese Government wants to use these charges which there is no substantiation for, and which our industry rejects out of hand," Mr. Kantor said. "We didn't want any excuses like this to be used."
Hiroshi Hirabayashi, Japan's Deputy Ambassador to the United States, said that ministry was always careful in its research. "Those are the facts, not an excuse," he said this afternoon.
 
 
'Talk on the Facts'
 Mr. Kantor's vehement position today "doesn't impress us at all, and we should talk on the facts," Mr. Hirabayashi added.
Daryl G. Hatano, the director of international trade and government affairs at the Semiconductor Industry Association, an American trade group based in San Jose, Calif., said, "We have called some of our largest companies to check and we are not aware of any" cancellations.
Mr. Hatano said that the purpose of the semiconductor pact was to eliminate nontariff trade barriers, like Japanese industry buying practices that discriminate against American companies. One effect of the Japanese charges about cancellations, he said, "is to try to create the perception that we're not reliable suppliers, which in effect raises another barrier."
Stanton D. Anderson, a Washington lawyer for the Electronics Industry Association of Japan, said that a study of shipment cancellations was under way but that it had not yet produced any conclusive results and would not be used as an excuse in any case.
Mr. Hirabayashi helped draft the original semiconductor agreement in 1991, when he was the top economics official at the Japanese Embassy. He said in an interview on Thursday that he and other Japanese officials now regretted ever agreeing to the 20 percent figure.
 
 
'Not a Good Agreement'
 "We think, including those who were engaged in negotiating that agreement, including myself, think it was not a good agreement," Mr. Hirabayashi said. "That figure started to walk along independent of its parents."
The 1991 pact expressed the market share target in very vague terms. "The Government of Japan recognizes that the U.S. semiconductor industry expects that the foreign market share will grow to more than 20 percent of the Japanese market by the end of 1992 and considers that this can be realized," the agreement said, later adding, "The two Governments agree that the above statements constitute neither a guarantee, a ceiling nor a floor on the foreign market share."
Mr. Kantor said that in future semiconductor negotiations with Japan, "We see the 20 percent as a floor, not a ceiling."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative. He strongly criticized Japan's stance on a computer chips agreement and said that an American ban on bids from European companies for some Federal contracts "will almost certainly go into effect" March 22. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES; EUROPE UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; KANTOR, MICKEY (TRADE REPR) BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



343 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Village Woos Train to Prosperity

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASSAIC, N.Y., March 10

 BODY:
Peggy Whalen anticipates using the proposed new rail service to this pastoral hamlet to ferry her Cub Scout pack to New York City on excursions to places like the Statue of Liberty.
Ralph Vinchiarello envisions a "golf train," something he likens to an old-fashioned ski train, which would transport golfers from Westchester County and beyond to Wassaic's new 18-hole course at the foot of the Berkshires. 
 And Ron Arno believes a commuter rail link would give this slumping Dutchess County community, about 80 miles north of Grand Central Terminal on the Connecticut border, an infusion of new residents, new homes and new businesses.
When Metro-North disclosed plans earlier this year to extend passenger train service 4.67 miles north on its Harlem line to Wassaic -- and to build one or two train stations here -- it did so with little fanfare. But to a community that has been battered by the impending closings of the two state institutions that employ most of its residents -- and depressed by the struggles of three I.B.M. factories nearby -- the plans are being viewed as nothing short of a lifeline.
 
'Lost Its Oomph'
 If the $12.8 million project, part of the $9.6 billion Metropolitan Transportation Agency capital plan, is approved by lawmakers in Albany, it would represent the first extension of service in the 10-year history of Metro-North and the first time that passenger trains have rumbled into Wassaic since the Penn Central abruptly closed its station here in 1972, railroad officials said.
"They tell me this used to be a bustling little town when the train came through," said Mr. Arno, the fiscal officer of the state's Wassaic Developmental Center for the mentally retarded, which is to close by the year 2000. "There's nothing here now. It's lost its oomph. The train is what kept it alive."
Metro-North officials believe they can help revive Wassaic, a community of about 300. They envision the hamlet's becoming a magnet for travelers who use Metro-North to get within striking distance of their weekend homes in nearby Litchfield County, Conn., the Berkshires in Massachusetts and even Vermont. The license plates of all three states are liberally sprinkled among several hundred cars parked from Monday to Friday at Dover Plains, the station now at the end of the Harlem Line.
 
700-Acre Campus
 The inability to expand the small parking lot at Dover Plains is a factor in the decision to extend service north to Wassaic.
There is also the potential to attract homeowners who might build here and commute about two hours to New York City two or three days a week, or who might bypass the city entirely and use Metro-North to reach jobs in other places, like White Plains.
Christine LaManna, a 25-year-old receptionist who works at a division of the Pawling Corporation here, said she would gladly use Metro-North to travel the 15 miles or so from her home in Pawling, N.Y., to Wassaic. "I'm an impatient driver," she said.
Metro-North is also betting that the 700-acre campus of the Wassaic Developmental Center -- 70 buildings, 7 wells, a power plant and a waste-water treatment plant, among other resources -- can be converted into a real-estate development that might house residents, shops, restaurants and small businesses, all within walking distance of a train station. Although the old Penn Central tracks, which still run through the campus, must be replaced, the new tracks would be laid in the same place as the old, Metro-North said.
 
Planning Process
 Some planners see the campus, set on gently rolling hills and dotted with evergreen trees, evolving into a veritable "town within a town."
Hollis W. Shaw, the director of the center, which is closing because of a statewide move toward smaller, community-based housing for the mentally retarded, said the state was eager to see the property go to good use. Several dozen acres might be deeded to the town for affordable housing while the remainder might be sold privately. The key, he said, was for residents to join the planning process.
"If the community wants to protect its economic base," he said, "here is a facility it can use as a foundation. We're offering the community a chance to determine its economic future."
The recent economic past has been anything but bright. The 100 or so small dairy farms that thrived in the countryside here as recently as 25 years ago have dwindled to five, priced out, in part, by the escalating costs of operation. Amenia, the town of about 5,000 that governs Wassaic, cannot even afford to hire its own police force, relying instead on the Dutchess County sheriff and the state police.
And many here fear the fallout from the closing of the developmental center and the Harlem Valley Psychiatric Center, another state institution down the road in Wingdale, which is to shut down next month. Some Amenia families can count three generations that have worked at the two centers.
"The mood is kind of depressed right now," said Peter Inserillo, 37, the head chef at the Segalla Country Club, the new course that opened last May.
For now, Wassaic must turn its eyes toward Albany, as lawmakers debate the fate of the capital plan for the M.T.A., of which Metro-North is a part. While expansion to Wassaic is a high priority, Donna Evans, a Metro-North spokeswoman, said the railroad would have to weigh the project against other priorities if the entire capital plan is not approved.
Mr. Vinchiarello, the Amenia Town Supervisor, said the town's future may hinge on that decision-making process, with the railroad extension providing the only real hope for reversing decades of increasingly hard times.
"This town hasn't changed in years," he said. "We're going to try to make it change."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The inability to expand the railroad's parking in Dover Plains, N.Y., is a factor in Metro-North's desire to expand its Harlem-line service 4.67 miles to Wassaic, a community of 300 at the foot of the Berkshires; Hollis W. Shaw, left, director of the Wassaic Development Center, and Ralph Vinchiarello, the Amenia Town Supervisor, recalled the time when the rail line brought Penn Central trains to the village. Now they see Metro-North plan an economic boon for the area. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Map of New York, indicating Wassaic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBM (NYSE) (93%); IBM (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (57%); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASSAIC (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; PASSENGER SERVICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) GOLF (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); MENTAL RETARDATION FACILITIES (72%); MENTAL RETARDATION (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



344 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING;
N.Y.R.A. Shrinks the Winner's Shares

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HALLANDALE, Fla., March 12

 BODY:
In a move aimed at cutting costs and sending a message to state legislators, the New York Racing Association is swinging its budget ax for the second time in a month, cutting purses by 2 percent over all and eliminating the $500,000 N.Y.R.A. Mile from next fall's calendar.
"New York just cannot continue to exist under the present structure and rules," Jerry Lawrence, executive vice president of the association, said today from Aqueduct race track in New York. "Other states have gotten the benefit of a reduction in taxes. And nobody else competes for business within its own state with off-track betting the way we do. We hope the Legislature will see fit to make some changes between now and 1994 that will make us more competitive." 
 The cuts, announced on Thursday, will affect a number of major stakes, including the Nassau Handicap on June 5, whose purse was reduced from $500,000 to $400,000, and the Suburban Handicap on July 4, back from $500,000 to $300,000.
The daily purse reduction begins March 28. As far as the cancellation of the N.Y.R.A. Mile, which had been scheduled for Oct. 23, Lawrence conceded that the race had been diminished somewhat because it is run so close to the Breeders' Cup championships.
 
Win, Place and Snow
 Racing in New York this winter has been hurt by stormy weather, which has caused six dates to be canceled, including Saturday's card. It has also been hurt by the escalation of simulcast betting at the Meadowlands in New Jersey, which imports full programs from Gulfstream Park in Florida, Oaklawn in Arkansas and other tracks. But New York's tracks are limited by state law to 50 imported races a year.
Lawrence reported that the total betting handle in New York, on and off track, had declined by $45 million already this year, and he again projected losses of $9 million by the time 1993 draws to a close. Last month, in its first move to cut costs, the association announced a series of economies that postponed some track-maintenance work and closed the training complex at Saratoga in the off season. The Saratoga closing has since been modified.
By contrast, Gulfstream Park announced today that it was increasing purses for the fourth time this year. The increase will amount to 10 percent, for a total gain of 35 percent.
Douglas Donn, president of Gulfstream, said, "The additional funding stems from the great wagering response to Gulfstream racing at interstate and intertrack sites."
 
Win, Place and Sun
 Gulfstream Park figures to do even better in the next two weekends.
On Saturday, the prime 3-year-old filly Sky Beauty, the East Coast's rival to Eliza, will make her 1993 debut in the $200,000 Bonnie Miss Stakes. On Sunday, nine senior horses will run in the $500,000 Gulfstream Park Handicap. And next Saturday, the East's best 3-year-old colts will take major strides toward the Kentucky Derby in the $500,000 Florida Derby.
Sky Beauty has finished first in all five of her starts, although she was disqualified and placed third in the Spinaway Stakes at Saratoga last August. She ran second to Eliza in the voting for the Eclipse Award for juvenile fillies.
Two West Coast stars, Siberian Summer and Missionary Ridge, were installed as favorites in the Gulfstream Park Handicap, the second race in the American Championship Racing Series. The 4-year-old colt Pistols and Roses, winner of the first race in the series, the Donn Handicap at Gulfstream one month ago, was the fourth choice behind Irish Swap, who ran second in the Donn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSN NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RACING ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; THOROUGHBRED RACING HORSE RACING (91%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HORSES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); GAMING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); LAYOFFS (57%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



345 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Bond Rally Stalls on Inflation Gain

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
After pushing interest rates to historic lows, the remarkable Treasury bond market rally ran into the wall yesterday, stalling the move to even lower rates for now.
The higher-than-expected increase in inflation in the Producer Price Index in February helped set off waves of selling in Treasury securities. Producer prices jumped four-tenths of 1 percent. Inflation, which erodes the fixed returns from bonds, is the worst news for traders and investors. 
 But doubts about the continuation of the rally had been growing since the February employment report, released March 5, showed that the economy was stronger than expected. The expectation of low inflation, or even declining consumer prices, and slow economic growth have been two of the important reasons for the bond rally.
 
 
Profit Taking
 In addition, there had been more talk about whether the rally had just gone too far, too fast. These doubts apparently encouraged some profit taking yesterday that added to the selling.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond plunged more than 1 1/4 points and the yield leaped to 6.86 percent, up from 6.76 percent the day before and up from its 16-year low of 6.72 percent on Monday. The yield on the 10-year note jumped to 6.11 percent from 5.98 percent.
But the rally had already brought rates down so far that traders were not betting that the pause would mean a major upturn in interest rates. Analysts suggested that long-term rates would remain in a trading range of 6.65 percent to 7 percent or so for the 30-year bond.
If this analysis is right, then the stimulative benefits for the economy of lower long-term interest rates should continue as long at this trading range is not broken. But that will now depend more than it has recently on the success of President Clinton's deficit reduction plan.
 
 
'On the Path'
 "We are on the path to get back to 7 percent or a tad higher as the market processes the inflation information," said Elliott Platt, director of economic research at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. He said the February report for the Consumer Price Index, which is due out Wednesday, would also be disappointing. He expects a rise of four-tenths of 1 percent in the index, following a jump of five-tenths of 1 percent in January.
J. Gregory Erardi, the managing director at Salomon Brothers in charge of the government trading desk, said that the broad-based selling yesterday by portfolio managers and other institutional investors "means that the technical picture is much more cloudy then it was and this means that we will see some consolidation."
Yesterday's sellers were the same people who were doing the buying even while many traders on Wall Street argued in late February and early March that prices could not go higher or yields lower.
Mr. Erardi and some other traders contended that the recent rally was based mostly on a constant demand from portfolio managers and other investors, many of whom were just trying to catch up because they missed the beginning of the upward move in prices, which pushed yields lower. Economic fundamentals, like growth and inflation, had less impact, Mr. Erardi said.
John Costas, the managing director of the Government trading desk at the First Boston Corporation, said he thought that the inflation number was a tip-off to a lot of investors that it was time for a pause. He said he saw selling by people who had held the Treasury bonds or notes for several months, which caused him to conclude that some investors have decided that the rally had come to a halt, at least for now.
 
 
'Defined the Low'
 "I don't think it is ultimately over, but for the near term we have defined the low for the yield and could trade back to 7 percent," he said.
Edward Yardeni, the chief economist at C. J. Lawrence, took a contrary view, arguing that the increase in the Producer Price Index was temporary and that inflation as measured by that index and the Consumer Price Index should still slow.
Yet he still agreed that the yields on bonds and notes could move higher temporarily. But he said because there is no threat that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates soon, long-term rates should resume declining again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



346 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Base Closings Start the Shift

 BODY:
The Pentagon's official list of 165 base closings and reductions, released yesterday, will spark intense opposition from politicians and hard-hit communities. Indeed, senators railed against the list even before it was released.
Senator Alfonse D'Amato said not in his (Staten Island) backyard, but the Pentagon didn't listen. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California pleaded that her state's economy shouldn't be forced to absorb more blows. Defense Secretary Aspin did spare two California installations -- McClellan Air Force Base near Sacramento and the Monterey Presidio -- but the state will still be socked with the loss of about 30,000 jobs. 
 The military drawdown will be painful. Over the next several years, perhaps one million workers will lose their jobs. But the President won election on a pledge to expand the economy by shifting Federal and private spending away from the military toward civilian investment, and base closings are a part of that process.
Washington has a special responsibility for communities where it operates bases that are the nucleus of the local economy. That responsibility is best met by helping them plan for conversion, assisting laid-off workers in finding new jobs and spurring nationwide recovery so that jobs are easier to find. The $20 billion, five-year program announced this week by President Clinton is a worthy start.
Tying up tens of thousands of workers and billions of dollars in equipment at unnecessary military installations does the economy no good. By one Government estimate, cutting back the military could eventually add $50 billion to annual output as workers and capital are redeployed to more efficient and more rapidly growing enterprises.
But the process of finding new work can take years, and many workers face substantial salary cuts. Though most communities won't be affected very much -- military cutbacks over the next few years will be much smaller than those after World War II, the Korean War or Vietnam -- there are some places where defense spending accounts for 20 percent of local employment.
There, cutbacks could prove bloody. Even some large cities and metropolitan regions will suffer: The San Francisco Bay Area will lose several bases; San Diego will lose more than 5,500 jobs at a single training center.
The Pentagon already provides planning grants to help hard-hit communities convert military property into, say, an office complex or an airport. And the Commerce Department assists communities suffering factory shutdowns or base closings by subsidizing investment in infrastructure and other development projects. These Commerce efforts aren't targeted on base closings; nor should they be. Workers laid off from Boeing or General Motors deserve help too.
President Clinton's package would substantially increase assistance for the victims of military cutbacks, providing $1.7 billion this year alone to retrain workers, encourage technology transfer from military to civilian purposes and promote local economic development. Washington can quicken the healing process, even if it cannot prevent the pain inflicted by the closings on jobholders and their communities.
Perhaps the biggest help Washington can provide is to put Mr. Clinton's short-term stimulus and long-term economic plan into play. The proposals emphasize public investment in infrastructure, worker training and technology as well as subsidies for private investment in plant, equipment and research. That will create jobs -- and put the unemployed to more useful work than perpetuating unneeded bases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS;
FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SHUTDOWNS ARMED FORCES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); KOREAN WAR (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1993



347 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: To Be Irish, Gay and on the Outside, Once Again

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
The news from home in Ireland has been startling for Brendan Fay: Gay men and lesbians will be marching in at least four St. Patrick's Day parades there this year, inspired by their embattled and far less successful brothers and sisters in New York City.
"Even in Drogheda, my hometown," Mr. Fay said, savoring the idea of a homosexual contingent parading for the first time on the narrow streets that he emigrated from because of the community oppression he sensed in Ireland over his homosexuality. 
Now, the 34-year-old religion teacher, who lost his job at a Catholic high school in Queens after parading his gayness among the green on Fifth Avenue in 1991, is finding a turnabout he said he never expected: greater interest and tolerance back home because of the challenge he and other members of the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization have raised in vain over the New York St. Patrick's Day parade.
 
From Cork, 'Hello New York!'
 "It's extraordinary," he said, noting that other gay and lesbian contingents are expected to participate, with no church, state or civic opposition thus far, in the parades in the Republic of Ireland in Dublin, Galway and Cork. Last year, his colleagues in Cork were the first ever to step off openly as a homosexual group in a St. Patrick's Day parade in Ireland, he said, and they bore the banner: "Hello New York!"
The news from home cheered Mr. Fay and some friends in the gay and lesbian group's leadership as they met the other night in a walkup apartment in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn to discuss the court defeat of their demand to parade and, now, to plan a protest march on Fifth Avenue.
Their sense of Celtic humor seemed intact as they wondered whether the day's unofficial slogan -- "Kiss me, I'm Irish" -- should now be altered, in the face of the parade sponsors' successful arguments in the name of Roman Catholic orthodoxy, to read: "Kiss me, I'm a heterosexual Irish Catholic."
 
Stance on the Church Varies
 Actually, members of the group vary on their sense of church fealty. Some range from indifferent to antagonistic while others tell of regularly attending Sunday Mass, some in a homosexually oriented congregation disapproved by church authorities.
"Coming out of the closet means coming out of the church," one member of the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization insisted. But others recalled clergy back in Ireland who were quietly gay men, or having heterosexual affairs, who could be inspiring in their holiness and tolerance.
"This is not really about Catholicism," said John Voelcker, a 33-year-old magazine editor and Irish-American gay man who noted the parade's initial history as a rallying point for Irish immigrants of all sorts in the face of widespread civil-rights abuse. "I'm not asking to have much to do with the Catholic church, but I do want to be Irish and gay at the same time," he said, underlining group members' past frustration at having separate identities, one of them secret.
 
Wary of the Green at First
 A number told of being wary of the green as new immigrants, bridling at the myth and sentimentality they find that the parade day perpetuates about the real Ireland, with its economic depression and civil war. "I thought the idea of marching was nonsense," said Sheilah Quinn, a publishing worker who changed her mind when she saw the issue as a way to demonstrate tolerance and not just declare herself a lesbian. "What's going on with this parade is not representative of our people," she said.
Patricia Nora Brigid Ryan, a first generation Irish-American who grew up in Boston 20 years ago appalled at the racial-integration struggles in resistant, sometimes violent Irish neighborhoods, said the parade controversy "for the first time made be proud to be Irish-American." Ms. Ryan had the knack of relaxing her friends with biting humor. "This whole thing is just about the church's anger at the numbers of priests and nuns who got away," she said in joking tribute to the members of the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization.
Parade officials stress that homosexuals are free to march as individuals with Irish county contingents. But this amounts to a back-in-the-closet message of "pelvic orthodoxy," as one member of the gay organization put it.
Mr. Fay, arguing that hypocrisy is at work, said that heterosexual Catholics, by taking care to be quiet in widely violating the church condemnation if birth control, have "somehow found an accommodation" with prelates. But homosexuals, he said, have stirred opposition because of their public insistence on being identified as both Irish and homosexual and worthy of integration in the parading Irish community.
 
A Painful Campaign
 Far from talk of having a bit of St. Paddy's mischief, group members discussed their campaign as too painful and hate-tinged to be enjoyed. They recalled a construction worker named Peter, a devout man who never missed Mass and hesitantly came out in the group's first march two years ago and felt so free that he "danced down the avenue." They regretted that he met "torment" back on the job after he was spotted on television and he finally returned to Ireland, keeping his faith and retreating from notoriety.
Above all, the group of eight lesbians and gay men spoke with some amazement at the international controversy a few people ignited with their impulse to join in the pride and fun of the parade. They told of street support from New Yorkers, but razzing and anger, too, especially in some Irish immigrant precincts.
"The most frightening, insidious thing is that people will walk by and just say, 'Anne Maguire,' a scary, inherent threat that they know me and what I am," said Ms. Maguire, a 30-year-old film producer who is the group's most widely recognized spokeswoman because of a willowy Irish beauty punctuated by a colleen-red mop of hair and a pugnacious lilt in her challenge to the Ancient Order of Hibernians, sponsors of the parade.
 
O'Connor Isn't the Enemy
 Animus was relatively slight among the group toward John Cardinal O'Connor, the leader of the Archdiocese of New York, who championed the free-speech right of the Hibernians to ban homosexuals' marching as a group on the grounds that homosexuality violates Catholic teachings. "We're not fighting the Cardinal," said Mr. Fay. "Our nemesis is bigotry and homophobia in whatever form it takes."
There was concern that mothers in Ireland not yet aware of their offsprings' homosexuality might discover it in the news Wednesday when the gay group plans its protest march down Fifth Avenue from 59th Street before the main parade.
"My mother has 14 children and a lot of headaches," said Ms. Quinn, fearing that her old mother might be informed inadvertently when her daughter marches in the protest next week and "comes out" fully.
"She faced many issues she probably never thought she'd have to face as an Irish-Catholic mother, including drugs, sex outside of marriage, stuff like that which she would never countenance," Ms. Quinn said. "So she really is a woman of the world and even my brother says she probably knows, but it's a question of bothering her with this in her old age."
 
What Will Neighbors Think?
 Members of the gathering agreed that concern for "what the neighbors think" was the great cry of family members back in Ireland or, for that matter, in the immigrant enclaves where some Irish-American families of members of the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization live and follow the parade issue. The group claims up to 100 active members, about half immigrants and half Irish-Americans, 70 percent of them gay men.
"You can never tell how parents will react," said Marie Honan, a 31-year-old office worker at New York University. "I wrote and told my mother, who is a devout Catholic, that I was a lesbian. I thought she'd say the worst, to not come back home ever. But she called and said, 'You will always be my daughter, and I'm just sorry I didn't know before, because maybe we could have talked about it and maybe I could have been of some help.' "
Clearly, a mother's peace of mind had more weight with the group than the Cardinal's opprobrium.
 
'The Way God Made You'
 "I came out to my mother," said Ms. Maguire. "She goes to Mass every Sunday and the only way she could feel fine about it was to say, 'This is the way God made you.' "
There was laughter when someone said, with a big brogue: "They're bloody smart, these mothers."
Ms. Maguire was appreciative that it took her coming out to her mother to believe finally "it doesn't really matter what the church says."
"It doesn't matter now if my mother has to sit every Sunday to hear the priest say your daughter is a pervert and a weirdo," she said, her Irish eyes more determined than smiling as she looked forward to St. Patrick's Day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're not fighting the Cardinal," said Brendan Fay, far left. "Our nemesis is bigotry and homophobia in whatever form it takes." Mr. Fay met with Anne Maguire, left, Marie Honan and Patricia Ryan of the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization to discuss their exclusion from the St. Patrick's Day parade and to plan a protest march. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); 

COMPANY: IRISH LESBIAN AND GAY ORGANIZATION

ORGANIZATION: IRISH LESBIAN AND GAY ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; IRELAND UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: ST PATRICK'S DAY; PARADES; DISCRIMINATION; HOMOSEXUALITY GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1993



348 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Allegheny Ludlum Planning A Swap to Acquire Athlone

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON

 BODY:
The Allegheny Ludlum Corporation, the nation's largest producer of stainless steel, said yesterday that it planned to acquire Athlone Industries, a smaller maker of specialty metals, in a stock swap valued at $107 million.
Steel industry analysts say the deal will broaden Allegheny's product line even as rivals, like Armco Inc., are also bolstering their roles in the more lucrative specialty markets with similar deals. 
 Industrywide, the two-year recession has caused the earnings of steelmakers to slide from their peak in 1989. Only in recent months have they been able to raise prices in the face of higher demand. And virtually all producers are just beginning to realize benefits from recent favorable International Trade Commission rulings over unfair import practices.
 
Used in Power Plants
 About 80 percent of Allegheny's production from the company's five scrap melting plants is high-grade, thin stainless-steel sheets, which are used in power plants and pollution-control systems. Last year, the Pittsburgh-based company had a loss of $78 million, because of an accounting charge, on sales of $1 billion.
Athlone, based in Parsippany, N.J., is one of only a few producers of thick stainless-steel plates, which are twice as wide as the industry-standard 48-inch sheets, like the ones made by Allegeheny. Thick, wide stainless plates are preferred by some customers because they require fewer welds.
Athlone had sales of $207 million in 1992. In the first three quarters last year its net was $4.6 million on sales of $155.7 million.
Charles Bradford, a steel analyst with UBS Securities, said Allegheny's proposed deal with Athlone might have been prompted by another steelmaker's move to enter the market for wide stainless-steel plates.
 
Lukens Plans Expansion
 In January, Lukens Inc., based in Coatesville, Pa., announced an $85 million expansion to create a high-speed rolling mill that can produce specialty-metal plates and sheets wider than 100 inches. Allegheny already relies on Lukens to roll its stainless slabs into sheets.
Lukens's plans "put Allegheny in a box," Mr. Bradford said. Instead of an ally, Lukens becomes a competitor, he said.
A Lukens executive, who asked not to be named, expects Allegheny to remain a customer, saying: "At the current time, Athlone is running full out. There isn't any excess capacity."
Allegheny officials were unavailable to respond.
Allegheny's proposed deal comes less than a year after two similar buyouts of stainless-steel makers. Armco, also based in Parsippany, the No. 2 specialty steelmaker after Allegheny, acquired Cyclops Industries last April. And in March, Lukens bought out Washington Steel, No. 3 behind Allegheny and Armco.

GRAPHIC: Graph: 'Strong Gains' shows share price of Athlone Industries since October 1992 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALS (NYSE) (96%); ATH (NYSE) (91%); AS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (95%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATHLONE INDUSTRIES; ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP (95%); LUKENS INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATHLONE INDUSTRIES; ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS (CORPORATE) SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POWER PLANTS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1993



349 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 6537 words

HEADLINE: The Last Days of Castro's Cuba

BYLINE: By Jo Thomas; Jo Thomas, who teaches journalism at the University of Illinois, was chief of The New York Times bureau in Miami from 1979 to 1981.

 BODY:
My flight to Cuba checks in at 5:30 A.M. at an obscure desk marked Haiti Transair at Miami International, downstairs and away from the other ticket counters. It's a three-hour wait for a 30-minute charter flight. Because the 44-pound weight limit on baggage doesn't include medicine, all about me are people holding clear plastic bags filled with antibiotics, aspirin, vitamins, milk of magnesia and first-aid supplies. I feel I'm about to go on a disaster-relief mission.
On the plane, the elderly couple sitting next to me come from Matanzas, a city 63 miles east of Havana. They have been visiting family in Tampa and have brought on board so many plastic bags that they have to struggle to close the overhead bin. They have been in Florida for two months and they want to go home. 
 In the Cuba I visited a dozen years ago, it seemed everyone wanted to leave. In the chaotic summer of 1980, some 125,000 people left in small boats from the port of Mariel. It was such high drama it was easy to forget that most Cubans did not join them. Nor did they put Castro on a plane with five revolvers and a couple of bags of gold, as they did with the dictator Gerardo Machado in 1933. The Cubans who stayed with Castro called the ones who left gusanos -- worms. Good riddance, they said.
Since 1980, the whole world has changed. The Soviet Union has fallen apart, and Washington keeps talking about the fall of Castro, whose Government lost 85 percent of its foreign trade and 40 percent of its economy in the blink of an eye. Anticipating that fall and urged on by the right-wing section of the Cuban exile community, Congress last October passed the Cuban Democracy Act, extending the 32-year-old United States trade embargo against Cuba to include all foreign subsidiaries of American companies and barring all ships stopping in Cuba from American ports for six months. Still, Castro remains. His Government calls these crisis years the Special Period, as if it had some foreseeable limit, even though no one knows when it will end.
I have asked to see Castro, knowing my chances aren't good. No one will promise anything. In the old days, it was the same. If I was lucky, I could see him give a speech, watch him at a distance of several hundred yards at a reception or interview someone close to him. You can spend a lot of time in Cuba waiting for a call from Fidel.
IT'S LATE AFTERNOON IN HAVANA. People trying to get home from work form enormous lines to wait for decrepit Hungarian buses that belch black smoke into the winter darkness. Bus passengers are packed so tightly that they hang out the doors or cling like spiders to the side, a foot in any crevice, even the opening for the gas tank. Men in mustard-yellow uniforms stand at bus stops, brandishing clipboards, stopping Government-owned vehicles, arguing with drivers and helping passengers in. Ambulances. Dump trucks. Utility trucks. Army vehicles. None seem exempt.
There is a severe shortage of oil and spare parts, so there aren't enough buses. There isn't even enough oil to keep the lights turned on. The entire country has regular blackouts every day but Sunday. Factories work by sunlight, opening at 7 A.M. and shutting at 3 P.M. Hospitals, child-care centers and schools remain open, but night classes have been canceled. Elevators don't work. Clocks don't tell the right time.
At the entrance to the Malecon, the broad boulevard that runs along the city's seafront, a young woman is trying to find a ride. I stop my car and offer to take her in my direction, but she is going farther, east to Alamar. I say I'll take her anyway.
Alamar is one of the newer suburbs, built to house people who have moved to Havana from the country. The apartments aren't bad, my passenger says, but in the Special Period, it's difficult to commute. She is studying accounting part time. Newly married, she is living with her in-laws.
It's dark, there's no moon and it's Thursday, when the blackout in Alamar runs from 5 P.M. to 8 P.M. When we get to Alamar, I can't see it. On a four-lane highway, I'm driving the only car. The roadway is full of bicycles, people riding alone or in couples, sometimes with a child pinned between them, sometimes with two children, weaving back and forth across the lanes in the dark.
We pull off at an exit.
"It's dark," I say, braking for another bike.
"It's a disgrace," she answers.
She directs me through a maze, finally telling me to stop on a street where only two cars are parked. One is on blocks. We get out. There are no street lights and I can barely see the building in front of me. My passenger asks if I would like to come in to meet her family. There are people in the hallway, but no lights, not even a candle. The mother-in-law is cooking dinner in the blue light of a two-ring gas burner on top of her electric stove. Dinner is a pot of potatoes and a pot of rice. We talk for a while in the kitchen, but there isn't room to sit down, so we move to the living room and sit in the dark.
The father-in-law is a doctor, a specialist in internal medicine at a major surgical clinic. In the darkness, I can't see his face, but he sounds tired. "I get up at 4:45," he says. "I have to get to work by 8." It's only a 20-minute drive and he has a car, one of the two parked outside. But he hasn't been able to get gas for more than a month. "I take three buses," he says, "but to wait for a bus, it can take hours."
The doctor is 49, an Afro-Cuban. Before the revolution, he says, someone like him couldn't get into a hospital as a patient, let alone become a doctor. He worked as a doctor in Ethiopia in 1977, during the war with Somalia. He remembers the poverty there, the disease. He's proud that Cubans don't see those diseases anymore.
After a few minutes, we are talking about the differences between health care in Cuba and the United States. The doctor knows a lot about this. He compares the low infant death rate in Cuba with the high rate in some American inner cities. He knows how many Americans have no health care, while Cubans have it free, almost from the time they are conceived. Cuba is also one of the few countries that has kept the AIDS epidemic under control, although the Government's policy of testing as many people as possible for HIV and quarantining people found to be infected has been strongly criticized abroad and recently modified, with some patients released for short or extended periods.
Suddenly, the lights come on, and I can see the faces in the room. Noises begin -- radios, televisions. I can see the buildings across the street, and I realize we are in the middle of a huge apartment complex. It's like a fairy tale in which a spell is broken and an invisible city suddenly appears.
THE WALL MURALS HAVE changed. The warlike images have been replaced by the slogan "Si Por Cuba" ("Yes for Cuba"). One of the authors of this campaign is Roberto Robaina, 36, the head of the Union of Young Communists. He is often mentioned by American Cuba-watchers as a possible successor to Castro, who calls him by the diminutive Robertico. I meet him on a Saturday morning in his office, a sunny room done in bright colors, overlooking the harbor. On the wall is a large color photograph of Fidel Castro and his brother Raul, Minister of the Revolutionary Armed Forces.
Robaina, the son of a bus driver, is from the city of Pinar del Rio, 100 miles southwest of Havana. A short, animated man, he talks quickly, punctuating his remarks with a sharp "Look!" for emphasis. He was 3 years old at the time of the Cuban revolution. In fact, more than half of the 10.4 million people in Cuba were born after the revolution. Robaina's work, at the moment, is to motivate this group, to make them feel involved in public life. "It's true that we lack oil," he says, "but the best raw material, the best resources, are the men and women who were born here, who are developing here."
The "Yes for Cuba" campaign, he says, is designed to promote "feelings of love, caring, of being Cuban, of respect. In another time you might have seen a slogan about dying for Cuba -- we certainly don't want to die. We want to succeed -- yes for Cuba. We are ready to die. But you don't have to remind yourself of this so much."
What about the Special Period? What will be the outcome?
"People in the world have been waiting for three or four years for Cuba to disappear. They say, 'It will fall in January. It will fall in July. It will fall in December.' Now, three Januarys, three Julys, three Decembers have passed, and Cuba is here, day by day raising itself up. I am absolutely convinced that if we haven't yet touched bottom, we are at the point of touching it, and as soon as we touch it, we'll take off."
Whether Robaina succeeds in motivating his target group remains to be seen. One morning, I'm standing in the lobby of my hotel when a young man walks over to ask if I'm from the United States. His girlfriend lives in New York, he says. When he finds out I'm a journalist, he says he's a boxer and invites me to meet some of his fellow boxers. I arrange to meet them at a beach on the east side of Havana.
It isn't until I see six of them working out on the sand on a hot day that I realize they are kick boxers, doing karate kicks in a ballet with the waves. Manuel Lopez, 32, says he is a former Cuban national champion in karate. From 1982 to 1988 he belonged to the national tae kwon do team. But after he refused to renounce a good friend who got married and went to Spain, he was denied permission to travel overseas and eventually left the team. All this has led him to join two dissident political groups -- the Democratic Socialists and the Civic Current.
Another boxer, Guillermo Fernandez, 34 years old, who has also joined the dissident groups, says he spent a mandatory two years in the army after receiving a degree in civil engineering. Since then, he has worked as a civil engineer on several projects, including the stadium for the 1991 Pan American Games.
"I am one of those who doesn't want to leave," he says. "I have a position that's both open and moral, and I will never go. I am a patriot. I'm against the Americans. I'm against the United States blockade against the Cubans." What he wants is a chance to ask questions and a chance to disagree with the Government. He also wants a better future.
"The Soviet Union helped us," he says. "So what happened? We didn't use the money to build a future. We became a country that created images -- in sports, in art, in conscience, in internationalism, in a series of things that are crazy in a country so underdeveloped. Now we don't even have toilet paper. And why don't we have it? Why? Whose fault is it? How is it possible that today we have nothing?"
BY WAY OF AN ANSWER, THE Government is pointing to its sugar harvest. Under the old arrangement with the Soviet Union, Cuba was able to barter sugar for all the oil it needed, on terms so favorable that the surplus sugar, along with nickel and other exports like rum and cigars, paid for a vast array of imports, from buses and wheat to cooking oil and paper. The Cubans have agreed to sell this year's sugar crop to the Russians, but the deal is at market prices and it will take almost the entire crop just to buy oil.
"Time is on our side," Castro tells a group of cane cutters in a national telecast just before the start of this winter's harvest. "We need time." Although sugar is the lifeblood of Cuba, there have been no fertilizers for two years, no herbicides, no fuel for irrigation. Now there is less fuel to help the workers bring the cane in. "Offer our nation the time it needs to go forward and be victorious," Castro urges.
Meanwhile, the critical issue is food. Nothing makes Government officials flare up more quickly than the suggestion that Cubans are hungry. "No one is hungry," they insist. The last time I was in Cuba, farmers could sell surplus food at free markets. But prices were high, and some of those involved got very rich. Others were suspected of diverting Government resources. So these markets have been shut down.
Now temporary workers are being deployed to grow food on hundreds of acres of formerly barren land. Doctors and university professors, themselves the children of peasants and laborers, are working in the fields. A neurosurgeon says he isn't worried about cutting his hands, and some of the women tell me they carefully paint their fingernails each night. Hundreds of city people have picked up rocks and sown fields of fast-growing plantains. Driving past Batabano, 30 miles south of Havana, on a searing day, I see fruit piled in the shade to wait for trucks that will take it all over the country. Plantain has four to five days before it rots.
A man sitting in a doorway in Central Havana late one afternoon says he has a job but can't buy enough to eat. With a ration card, his family can buy rice (5 pounds per person per month), beans (20 ounces), sugar (6 pounds), eggs (4 per person each week), a small portion of fish twice a month, and coffee (4 ounces). But these don't last the month. He and his wife go without food so they can feed their three children. It's almost evening, and he has eaten only one roll all day. "It makes you crazy," he says.
A woman across the street is filling a bucket from a pipe in the street. She tells me the plumbing in her building is broken, along with just about everything else. I ask to see her apartment and she takes me inside. "Look at this!" she says with a sweep of her arm. Electrical wires hang crazily down the walls. "This can't go on." Then she mutters, "Fidel will fall. Fidel will fall."
Last month, she says, her family ran out of food for a week. It has been four months since they have had meat. A widow, she works in a school cafeteria and has two teen-age daughters. The black market, she says, keeps them alive.
The woman came to Havana a year ago because things in the countryside were so bad. The country, her daughters tell me, was "like Africa -- no nothing." It was in the provinces, however, not in the city of Havana, that the Cubans built and repaired thousands of homes after the revolution. It was an effort to improve deplorable rural housing -- 74 percent of it bad. It was also a successful effort to keep peasants from crowding into the capital city, as they do in most countries that are rural and poor. But Havana, which had the best housing, deteriorated. In 1990, just as the Cubans were about to turn their attention to it, the Special Period began and the money ran out.
ONE SUNDAY afternoon, I take the central highway west from Havana, passing trucks, bicycles, ox carts, dozens of hitchhikers and hundreds of people waiting for buses. Although the adults are thinner than I remember, the children look good. I don't see the grinding poverty I have seen elsewhere in the Caribbean and Latin America: the filthy drinking water, the lack of sanitation, people living in the street. Even in the Cuban countryside, children wear shoes, and I see electrical lines running to the smallest houses.
I pick up three hitchhikers, all young women. One of them offers to take me to meet her relatives. She directs me off the highway and I drive for several miles until we reach a sandy lane running into a field of sugar cane. Her aunt lives here in a batey, a collection of small wooden houses in the fields.
For lack of fuel, the men have not been able to use a tractor for more than a year. An ox and a horse are doing the work. The women have been managing without soap or detergent for a long time. What really seems to upset them is cooking without lard. Although they are in the middle of the cane fields, there is no sugar to put on the table, no rum to drink. All the sugar, they tell me, is going for export. The older children, the ones over the age of 7, get a glass of sugared water at school, but they no longer get milk. This is the case all over Cuba: The island's Canadian dairy herds, imported for their prodigious yields and crossbred with native cattle, no longer have Canadian grain to eat, and the milk supply has plummeted. What is left goes to babies and small children.
What bothers the men most is that they can't get socks. They pull off their boots and show me their bare feet, which are bleeding from working in the fields. No one has a car. There is one bicycle, which originally cost 125 pesos. The current price is 10 times as much. Their monthly income is 300 pesos. (At the official rate of exchange, a peso is worth $1; on the black market, it's 40 pesos to the dollar.)
Since the people here live near the coast, several have tried to leave the country. Some succeeded. Others went to prison. Not long ago, the authorities came and took away the boat the men used for fishing, just in case anyone else decided to make a run for it.
What do they see for the future? What do they think Fidel will do?
"He has us in his fist," says one of the women. "We don't know what would be worse. If he dies or if he lives. We have nothing."
Knowing that some of their family members have tried to leave, I ask what they think about the anti-Castro Cubans in Miami, especially Jorge Mas Canosa (chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation, the most powerful of the Cuban exile groups). They frown and say they don't know who Mas Canosa is, but they are afraid of the Cubans in Miami and what they might do if they should gain power in Cuba. It is a refrain I come across again and again during my 19 days in Cuba. Even those who hate Castro don't want the Miami Cubans back, and only a handful can identify Mas Canosa. When they think about alternatives to Castro, they think of Cubans in Cuba.
"It might have been different with Ochoa," says one of the women. "You don't dare talk about this. We talk only with each other." Gen. Arnaldo Ochoa Sanchez, a popular and much-decorated officer, was put before a firing squad in 1989 on charges of organizing a scheme to smuggle cocaine.
ONE DAY, GETTING ON THE highway heading east, I come across a young woman trying to find a ride to the exit near her home, about 100 miles away, in Cienfuegos Province. When I offer her a lift and she realizes I'm from the United States, she invites me to visit her family. They live on the grounds of the Primero de Mayo sugar mill.
Ivetty Curbelo is a university student, studying English literature. Her favorite author is William Shakespeare. As the miles roll by, she says she also likes rock-and-roll, the Cuban singer Pablo Milanes, Mel Gibson and police dramas, especially "Lethal Weapon." She's an enthusiastic member of the Union of Young Communists, and her father, she says, is a policeman. "He's always working, day and night. He'll probably be at work now."
The smokestack of the giant sugar mill towers over the green cane fields. The Primero de Mayo enclave, which adjoins the mill, is at the end of a long avenue lined with fig trees. We pass an old wooden train station painted yellow, with a sign that says "Perseverance." In the old days, this would have been the Dead Time, when the new harvest had not begun and there was no work, when workers lived on credit or went hungry. The town is small, with streets of red dirt and houses of wood or concrete, some new, many built by their owners. There is a school, a medical clinic and a movie theater.
The Curbelos' one-story concrete house is set off from the road by a garden of vegetables and flowers. Ivetty's mother and sister come out to meet us, then bring coffee from a back kitchen, where they are cooking with charcoal and wood. We sit in a front room with flowered curtains and tile floors. Military medals that have been given to Ivetty's father are carefully framed on the wall. He fought in the revolution and at the Bay of Pigs and served with the Soviets in an antiaircraft unit during the Cuban missile crisis.
Given Ivetty's taste for violent American cop movies, I wonder if her father will turn out to be a middle-aged Cuban version of Arnold Schwarzenegger. But when Eusebio Curbelo appears in his olive uniform, he is jolly and small and sweating profusely.
"Mother of God, it's hot!" he says, giving me a broad smile. Most days, Curbelo drives the fire engine, but it's in for repairs, so he has been working at his other job as an auxiliary policeman. He's 55 and comes from Cartagena, in another part of Cienfuegos Province, where he was put to work as a child cutting wood for charcoal.
"We were a family of nine," he says. "I started to work when I was 9 years old. I never went to school and I fought in the rebel army."
Why did he join?
"Not even I can explain why I went. I knew nothing. My mother thought I was crazy. I was the only one in my family who went. The older children were girls, and they didn't understand."
He went to the Escambray mountains to fight, and "after the revolution, all of us who were illiterate started school. I had to work too, but, look, I learned to read."
What about life during the Special Period?
"Every day it's worse," he concedes. "But we have to work at it, planting rice and vegetables. In Cuba, no one's dying of hunger. What you have to do is work, work hard. Today there's more than before. In the days before the revolution, some had everything, and the rest of us looked at them and what they had. We couldn't read. We had no radio, not even a newspaper. It was a dark night. Now it's a clear day."
AGAIN AND AGAIN, Castro and other Cuban Government officials go on television to assure people that there are plans to get out of the Special Period. Again and again, they urge people to work hard and be patient. While I am in Cuba, Carlos Lage, who is coordinating the economic restructuring of the country, holds a three-hour news conference -- televised over a period of two days -- explaining the Government's economic strategy in minute detail. An important long-term goal is for Cuba to become a world leader in biotechnology, even though it is having a difficult time breaking into the international market for pharmaceuticals. The industry is dominated by multinational companies that can afford to spend millions of dollars to develop and market just one drug. Then there is the United States trade embargo.
I spend one morning in the eight-story ultramodern Center of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering opened in 1986 on the outskirts of Havana. With the full financial backing of the Government, Cuban scientists have already made recombinant interferon, which is sold in Sweden, Finland, Mexico, Peru, Chile, Panama and Costa Rica. They are also producing a cream, based on a skin growth factor, that keeps burns from scarring, as well as a drug, PPG, that washes cholesterol out of the blood. A new vaccine for hepatitis-B is being used in Brazil.
But the quickest way for Cuba to earn its way out of its shortage of foreign exchange is tourism. Private investors from Spain, Germany, Jamaica and elsewhere have come in as joint hotel owners and as managers, and the tourist industry has changed almost completely from what it was a decade ago. The Soviet bloc tourists are gone. Last year, half a million tourists came from Canada, Spain, Italy and Latin America -- a number twice that of 1958, the height of tourism before the revolution.
At Varadero, about 90 miles east of Havana, the skyline next to the long, powder-white beach is dotted with cranes and new hotels. On a Sunday, I stop at the Tuxpan, built in the style of a Mexican pyramid and filled with flowers and tropical plants and lots of vacationing Canadians. Eamonn Donnelly, the Irish general manager for the German firm LTI, which has a management contract for the Tuxpan, is tanned and easygoing. He has worked in Germany, Spain, the Canary Islands and Brazil, and he says that running a new hotel in Cuba has been easier than he expected. "We finished our first year at an average occupancy rate of 68 percent and we're running now at more than 86 percent of room average occupancy, heading on for a gross operating profit of something like 48 percent."
Back in Havana, I meet Rafael Sed, president of the National Institute of Tourism, in a room off the glittering lobby of the Nacional Hotel, newly refurbished by the Cuban Government at a cost of $15 million. I ask him about the possible backlash from having hordes of affluent foreign tourists eating in restaurants that are largely closed to Cubans (who are not allowed to have American dollars) and going to stores where all the prices are in dollars.
"I think a good part of the population doesn't understand, and doesn't want to understand," he says, "that there are resources we can't put at their disposal." Foreign goods have to be paid for in dollars, he explains, and if they are put on sale for pesos, the supply will quickly be exhausted. The profits from tourism, he adds, are being put into essentials like food.
It sounds good in theory, but it's wrenching in practice. Boys on the street beg for soap. A theater director asks if I can get him a bottle of shampoo. Several women ask if I can buy them shoes.
I ask Carlos Garcia, vice president of Cubanacan, which has been setting up joint tourist ventures with European and Latin American investors, what would happen if, as the Cubans wish, the United States embargo were dropped, diplomatic relations were resumed with Washington and his hotels started filling up with tourists bringing both American dollars and American ideas.
"It would be a great challenge for us," he replies. "As a friend of mine says, we have been preparing for 30 years to meet the Marines but never to meet tourists. This is the problem. I don't know what would happen with an invasion of two or three million tourists. It would have a huge social and political impact, and it would be a great challenge. We would have to see if we were prepared. I think we are."
CUBAN TELEVISION IS already brimming with foreign ideas, and it's possible to see everything from the science fiction of Ray Bradbury to a concert featuring Ray Charles. The current favorite is a Brazilian soap opera, popularly known by the name of its leading character, Fatima, a young professional woman on her way up. The Cubans are outraged by Fatima's cruel treatment of her adoring and unsuspecting mother. Episode after episode, they wait to see Fatima get what she deserves, and week after week Fatima gets away with it. She has become a synonym for things that are bad. If someone has a cough and a sore throat, they call it a "Fatima of a cold." Even the hand-lettered sign advertising a neighborhood meeting to nominate candidates for the recent elections to the National Assembly noted that it would begin at "9:30 P.M., after Fatima."
The final balloting in these elections took place last month, as Cubans for the first time cast direct secret votes for the 589 delegates to the Assembly. But candidates were carefully screened by the Government. No candidate could run against the Government and everyone had to run as an individual (rather than as a member of a political party).
Municipal elections by direct secret ballot began in 1976. Among its administrative duties, each municipal council oversees health care, child care and education. Members of these councils -- there are about 169 in the country -- do not have to belong to the Communist Party. The National Assembly, on the other hand, meets twice a year and tends to ratify decisions taken by the Council of State, the Council of Ministers and the Politburo of the Communist Party, all headed by Fidel Castro.
Technically, even Castro had to run for office this time, winning, officials said, 99 percent of the vote in his district. At a news conference with foreign journalists on election day, the Cuban leader hinted he might step down. "Time passes," he said, "and marathon runners get tired. This has been a very long race, too long."
The recent elections are obviously an effort by the Government to get new blood and some kind of popular mandate, but it does not extend to people like Elizardo Sanchez, a former professor of philosophy who is now a leader of the Democratic Socialists. He is also president of the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation.
When I try to visit him at his house, he is not there, and his relatives seem fearful. They give me directions to another address, and eventually I am taken to a third building. Sanchez is in a friend's apartment on a high floor.
Sanchez is 48 years old, with gray hair and a serious, gentle manner. "My house, where you were," he says, "has been attacked eight times by the political police. I think it has been the house most attacked by the political police in the whole country. And my family has been terrorized." However, he dismisses my worries that a visit from me could put him or others in danger, saying that I am only one of hundreds of journalists who have been to see him.
Plunging into the subject of the Government's human rights abuses, he says Cuba has too many police, too many prisons and too many political prisoners. No one but the Government knows exactly how many there are, perhaps 2,000, perhaps 5,000. These political prisoners, he says, are ordinary people -- "workers, peasants, above all humble people, and this explains why people have so much fear." Most people, he says, "have internalized this feeling. They know what they should and what they shouldn't say." Still, he says, people today are saying things on street corners that would have been unthinkable two or three years ago. Most of the time, the Government lets this go, but "when the protests have a wider character, and more people get involved, the police come quickly."
Sanchez calls the elections "cosmetic changes" and says the Government is trying to win time to win more time. "The Government doesn't have a real exit from the grave national crisis," he says. "So this is also a passive tactic -- to wait to see if a miracle occurs. And I say that they are losing time, because this is the best time for them to permit changes and to participate in those changes. The Government should renounce its hope for a miracle."
Sanchez is one of many Cuban dissidents who have argued that the United States embargo is counterproductive, only making things worse for those inside Cuba who push for democratic changes. An aggressive stance by Washington gives the Cuban Government an excuse to clamp down on its citizens, and the tightening of the embargo, he contends, makes things worse. He calls the Cuban Democracy Act "a good demonstration of the lack of imagination and intelligence" in Washington."
His political group -- the Democratic Socialists -- wants a dialogue with the Government and other sectors of Cuban society, including the Cubans in Miami. Sanchez doesn't think Castro is going to fall any time soon. "These totalitarian, neo-Stalinist models are relatively stable. They have great internal stability. This, united with an almost unlimited capacity for repression, can let this Government, even in this sliding situation of crisis, keep control for several years. The tragedy of the Cubans could be a slow agony, prolonged over time."
Sanchez has spent almost 9 of the last 10 years in prison on political charges. As I'm about to leave, he stops me and says: "I'm not a brave man. I'm not a hero. Every time I'm arrested, I'm afraid. But I think we're getting near the end."
Eleven days after I speak with him, on Dec. 10 -- the 44th anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights -- a mob shows up at the apartment building where Sanchez is staying. Two members of the state security police ask to come in but are refused admittance for lack of a search warrant. Five minutes later, a group of six men, karate experts, kick in the door of the apartment, beat Sanchez unconscious and drag him downstairs to the waiting mob, which also beats him.
Sanchez is taken to a military hospital, then to detention, before finally being released on bond on Dec. 30, after protests from government leaders and political parties in Europe and in Latin America, as well as from Amnesty International and Americas Watch. He is charged with violating the peace and defaming the President of the Council of State, Fidel Castro.
WHEN I FINALLY SEE Castro, he is meeting with a group of American church people -- Pastors for Peace -- who have arrived in Cuba to protest the United States embargo. They gather at the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Havana, and Castro speaks in front of a giant portrait of Martin Luther King Jr. The Americans have brought food, clothing, medicine and other goods through Mexico, crossing the border at Laredo, Tex., deliberately breaking the embargo on American goods to Cuba. I am told that at the border a Roman Catholic priest carrying a Bible was thrown to the ground by a Treasury Department agent trying to wrest it from him. The group gives Castro the Bible. Castro goes into the audience, to wild applause, to embrace the priest.
Castro, as usual, is in army uniform. He is 66, but has aged dramatically since I last saw him. It is more than just the grayness of his beard. He looks tired and preoccupied, and it isn't until he starts to speak that the fiery and charismatic Castro I remember emerges.
"The blockade seeks to block all sales and exports to Cuba," he tells the group, "to deprive Cuba of the resources it needs to purchase essential goods. The blockade is a national persecution, a constant persecution." Cuba cannot buy food or medicine, he says, cannot sell its nickel on the world market.
"We tightened our belts and deprived ourselves of many things," he says. "Then they invented the Torricelli Law," a reference to the Cuban Democracy Act, whose chief sponsor was Representative Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat. "The merchant fleet of the socialist camp is gone. We have to rent these ships. It's hard to conceive a more cruel bill. They see it as the last hammer to intimidate our people."
At the end of his speech, Castro tells the crowd: "They haven't finished writing the Bible, and you are another page in that book. A thousand times, thanks."
In many ways, the United States embargo serves as a constant reminder of the enemy only 90 miles away, across the Straits of Florida. The possibility of a confrontation with the United States is never far from the minds of most Cubans, although the apprehension seems far less palpable now than it was in 1980 and 1981, the first years of the Reagan Administration.
For Americans, the Bay of Pigs invasion is an entry in history books, but it is still very alive to most Cubans. A block away from the beach where the Cuban exile forces landed stands the Bay of Pigs museum. Just outside is a giant propeller broken from one of the invading aircraft. Inside are captured weapons and a detailed description of the invasion. A glass case contains the photographs of the Cubans who died here. Beside them are personal effects: a sock, a broken comb, a pair of bullet-ridden blue jeans worn by a youth who wrote "Fidel" on a door with his own blood before he died.
Also on display are a little girl's white leather shoes, riddled with bullets. They belonged to Nemesia Rodriquez, a charcoal maker's daughter, whose mother was killed in the air attack. An old photograph of six children, all but one thin and barefoot, shows what life was like before the revolution in this huge swamp known as La Cienaga.
Nemesia Rodriquez, now middle-aged and the mother of two, lives not far away, in a small, neat village of wooden houses with thatched roofs, set back in the underbrush a few miles off the main road. She works at a nearby farm, and today I find her cleaning up at the lunchroom. She is small, dark-haired and shy.
"I was 13," she says, recalling that day in 1961 when her mother was killed. "They shot us as we came down the highway. We were in a truck, my father, five children and my mother. The plane had Cuban markings. My mother threw herself on top of us. She was machine-gunned in the body and the legs and died immediately. My brother, who was 11, was also hit. We were just children. We hid in the weeds until help came."
Why are there bullet holes in the shoes?
When her family was fleeing from the air attacks, the 13-year-old took the box containing the shoes with her. "I had always wanted white shoes," she says. "They were my most precious things." The shoes were in their box with her when the attacking plane strafed the truck. The bullets hit the shoes but not her.
In the city of Cienfuegos, about 50 miles away, I find a commission store, where Cubans leave personal items they want to sell and pay the Government a commission. A man's hat sells for 300 pesos. A hand lawn mower is 400 pesos. A woman's bathing suit, 500 pesos. A baby carriage, 700 pesos. And there is a pair of little girl's white patent leather shoes. The price: 1,000 pesos.
MORE THAN AT ANY time since the revolution, the Cuban Government appears to be looking for a rapprochement with the United States. Ricardo Alarcon, the Cuban Foreign Minister, is no stranger to difficult situations. A veteran diplomat who has represented Cuba at the United Nations, he helped negotiate the Cuban withdrawal from Angola.
Alarcon has offices in a Havana mansion restored to its prerevolutionary grandeur. He meets me in a salon filled with mahogany and antiques, and we talk about a recent vote in the United Nations General Assembly, with many allies of the United States backing Cuba in a nonbinding resolution condemning the Cuban Democracy Act.
The Achilles heel of this legislation, Alarcon says, is that it gives the force of law to the longstanding Washington practice of pressuring other countries not to deal with Havana. Just a year ago, some top State Department officials told me they thought the law was a mistake for the same reason.
Alarcon says he doesn't have a good sense of what the Clinton Administration's policy toward Cuba will be. "For Cuba," he says, "it would be perfectly satisfactory if they left us in peace, if they weren't as active as the Republican Administration, which has been persecuting Cuba all over the world." The current policy toward Cuba "is based on the certainty that the Cuban revolution has only a few months of life. If someone analyzes the situation with equanimity and objectivity, he will arrive at the conclusion there is no proof that shows this in any way.
"I think someday the situation will have to change. Only two things can happen. We disappear, or we don't. We survive, or we don't. If we don't disappear, if we survive, if a Cuban socialist society keeps existing here after the end of the cold war, after there is no Communist danger to the United States, there is no political justification" for the hostility of the United States. And the United States, only 90 miles away, will be "the only country in the world that doesn't do business with Cuba. The moment will come when more reasonable people in Washington will try to think of an alternative to this policy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rainy and bleak weekday morning in the Vedado neighborhood of Central Havana. (pg. 34); A bus stop on the Malecon in Havana. Because of shortages of oil and parts, there aren't enough buses. Waiting to buy chickens at a Government-operated store in Havana. (pg. 36); The train station at Primero de Mayo, adjoining a sugar mill. (pg. 38); Workers take a break at a banana farm near Guines, 30 miles southeast of Havana. (pg. 39); The kick boxers the author met at a beach on the east side of Havana insist they are patriots, but they want a chance to ask questions and they want a better future. (pg. 68)(Photographs by Gilles Peress/Magnum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT AIRLINES (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); FIRST AID (71%); ANTIBIOTICS (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); INTERVIEWS (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, JO; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



350 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 8; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
Arthur Mitchell Does Go Home Again

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
This is a time of homecomings for Arthur Mitchell and the Dance Theater of Harlem. It was 29 years ago that Mr. Mitchell danced the dazzling, quicksilver Puck in George Balanchine's "Midsummer Night's Dream," performed by New York City Ballet as the opening event at the State Theater. Now Mr. Mitchell, one of the few black dancers to reach stardom in American ballet, is returning to the State Theater as the director of an internationally celebrated troupe, renowned for the freshness, integrity and exuberance of its classical dancing -- and for the fact that most of its 49 dancers are black.
Mr. Mitchell, whose company begins a two-week season at the State Theater on Tuesday, had gone home to Harlem to found a school and company in 1968 and, as committed as ever, is now expanding Dance Theater's headquarters on West 152d Street. In September, the 58-year-old company director and his dancers traveled to South Africa to perform and teach in Johannesburg and neighboring townships, a return of sorts to a spiritual home. There is, however, a special personal satisfaction for Mr. Mitchell in the troupe's engagement at the State Theater. "It's coming full circle, in a sense," Mr. Mitchell said recently. "This is the first time the company is dancing at the State Theater, and it's right before City Ballet's celebration of Balanchine. I'm coming back home." 
 A high-voltage dancer and implicitly, through the work of his company, a spokesman for his race, Mr. Mitchell has always been a salesman of somewhat driven optimism and pizazz, charming the rich and well connected into supporting his school and company and convincing audiences that swans, Giselles and neo-classical heroes could be black as well as white.
Exhaustion and a certain bitterness, both carefully veiled, set in along the way as it became increasingly difficult for his own and other American dance companies to survive in a tough economy. But this winter afternoon, Mr. Mitchell was uncharacteristically relaxed and contemplative, sitting in his small office in the Dalton School, Dance Theater's temporary headquarters until construction on the $6 million expansion is completed uptown. Distant, tinkling piano music floated through the air as, somewhere above, the dancers rehearsed the company's version of "Giselle," set in a 19th-century Creole plantation. It will be performed at the State Theater along with "Firebird," transplanted from old Russia to an exotic junglelike forest, and ballets by Alvin Ailey, Michael Smuin, Balanchine, Glen Tetley and others.
"I've been trying to find a key phrase," Mr. Mitchell said, talking of his own and Dance Theater's history and objectives. "We named the South African tour 'Dancing Through Barriers.' In a sense, that is the essence of what Dance Theater has been doing since its inception -- and what Balanchine did when he took me into City Ballet."
Lincoln Kirstein, a founder with Balanchine of City Ballet and its school, had played a hand in it all by offering the young dancer a scholarship, advising him, in a now-famous pronouncement, that to get into the company's corps de ballet Mr. Mitchell must dance like a soloist. When he was eventually invited to join the company, he asked that there be no publicity about a black breaking a barrier. "I wanted to get in on my own merit," he recalled.
Mr. Mitchell was not the only black dancer in the school. But he was placed front and center in a photograph in a school brochure in the 1950's, not a time when racial mixing was readily tolerated. "I heard that some people called to say they didn't want their daughters dancing with me, and that Lincoln and Mr. B. told them to take their daughters out of the school then."
Mr. Mitchell also felt support as a company member. "We had a couple of incidents on tour, but never with the company," he said. "Basically, I was totally accepted.
"I remember Balanchine did a 'Nutcracker' for television, with me ending up with the Sugar Plum Fairy. It was during school integration in Little Rock, and Mr. B. said, 'I hope Governor Faubus is watching.' He and Lincoln were -- and are -- incredible men."
At City Ballet, Mr. Mitchell absorbed not only his many roles but the everyday workings of a ballet company, from costume fittings to lighting sessions to orchestra rehearsals. The assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968 spurred Mr. Mitchell to give back what he had learned. "I never actually started out to have a company. I wanted to start a school to get the kids off the streets. But I couldn't tell the young people in the school to be the best they could when they had no place to go. As we began to get grants, we had to match those grants, so I had to have a group earning income. And I was making role models for the kids."
Mr. Mitchell stressed that sensitivity to color and black cultural history, evident in his insistence on tights and shoes dyed to match the dancers' individual skin tones and in his re-staging of classics, was neither a concession nor a political statement. "We are artists who happen to be black, not black artists," he said. "In the final analysis, we are in service to the art form. By doing that, we then make things better for the race."
OVER THE YEARS, HE AND HIS dancers have taken on the roles of cultural emissaries. And they have brought dance to schoolchildren throughout the United States and abroad in lecture-demonstrations and workshops on ballet, classical technique and the behind-the-scenes production of dance. For those reasons, Mr. Mitchell said, Dance Theater was a natural choice to become the first major performing-arts troupe to visit South Africa as a statement of that country's increasing racial openness.
He sought a total political consensus about the company's visit. "It was the first time in history that every political faction in that country agreed on one thing -- to bring Dance Theater," he said.
In addition to performances that reopened Johannesburg's renovated, previously whites-only Civic Theater, dancers and company personnel fanned out to surrounding areas to conduct master classes, demonstrations and seminars in theaters, schools and community halls. The classes, organized by Cassandra Phifer, a charter member of Dance Theater who has since left to teach and choreograph on her own, drew as many as 90 children, most of whom had no formal dance training. To be seen and heard, the dancers often had to teach with the children ringing them in concentric circles.
"I'd ask them to show me something they did," Ms. Phifer said. "I'd show them something I did. At the end, we had the beginning of a little dance. Something they could keep for themselves."
Mr. Mitchell, who is known for getting his way, had a hard time convincing Ms. Phifer to come along. How much, she wondered, could things have changed in South Africa? But he persisted. "And Sandy was wonderful," he said. In fact, it was a time of discovery for all of them. Mr. Mitchell talks enthusiastically of the black South African dances the company brought back and of working with drummers who were taken aback at the sight of the company's woman conductor, Tania Leon. Poignantly, he found himself answering some of the same kinds of questions he was asked by his first Harlem students. Why was technique necessary, one boy asked, if you could dance well already?
Ms. Phifer was surprised to discover that one part of Soweto looked just like Beverly Hills. But most of all, there were the children, who got to see their American teachers dance and even occasionally performed as extras at the Civic Theater. They taught their teachers social dances and games, as well as lessons about the human spirit.
"I saw in them a sense of purpose and dignity," Ms. Phifer said. "To have so little, and to still know who you are and project a positive image, even in extreme adversity. Because of apartheid, they haven't developed the analytic skills they need to get from where they are to where they want to be. But I think there are a lot of people here in the United States with the same problem."
The three-week visit produced a dizzying kaleidoscope of racial imagery. Some stereotypes were stood on their heads. A reporter polling audience members on opening night at the Civic Theater was startled to hear a Johannesburg dance teacher talk of American blacks having better physiques for ballet than African blacks, an observation often made in America about white versus black ballet dancers. Mr. Mitchell himself was fascinated by the country's complex racial composition. "In America we just deal with black and white. In South Africa there are blacks, coloreds, Indians and Caucasians."
He was suddenly struck by yet another incongruity. One of the ballets by Mr. Smuin to be performed during the State Theater season is "A Song for a Dead Warrior," a dance about American Indians. Blacks playing Indians? Another barrier broken? Mr. Mitchell roared with pleased laughter. "I love that," he exclaimed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mr. Mitchell with Christina Johnson, Tai Jimenez, Judy Tyrus and Virginia Johnson, each of whom will dance Giselle -- "We are in service to the art form," he says. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (76%); 

COMPANY: DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (76%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DANCE (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCERS (90%); MUSIC (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ARTHUR; DUNNING, JENNIFER ARTHUR ADAM MITCHELL (97%); GEORGE BALANCHINE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



351 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 32; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
An Enterprise Zone for the Imagination

BYLINE: By Herbert Muschamp

 BODY:
Some say that Eric Owen Moss comes out of Frank Gehry. Others insist that Mr. Moss's true architectural forebear is the Venetian modernist Carlo Scarpa. Actually, the work of this young California architect springs right out of modern life. And the most penetrating angle into his work comes from the Harvard economist (now Labor Secretary) Robert Reich and his concept of the "symbolic analyst."
As Mr. Reich describes them in his book "The Work of Nations," symbolic analysts are the elite of the nation's work force, the professionals best poised to profit from the information economy. "Symbolic analysts solve, identify and broker problems by manipulating symbols," Mr. Reich writes. "They simplify reality into abstract images that can be rearranged, juggled, experimented with, communicated to other specialists and then, eventually, transformed back into reality. The manipulations are done with analytic tools, sharpened by experience." 
 All architects belong to this privileged group of workers. In fact, buildings are the most physically imposing examples of the process Mr. Reich describes. Architects call the process design; with it, they transform material reality on a gigantic scale. But Eric Owen Moss is in a special category. He does not just design buildings. He builds the process of design. His work, the subject of a recent show at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, offers an exhilarating display of rearrangement, juggling, and experimentation with architectural form.
Mr. Reich's ideas are particularly apt for Mr. Moss, because much of his work focuses on the workplace. Though Mr. Moss has designed a wide range of building types, his most impressive projects are the offices he has designed in Culver City, Calif., for Frederick Norton Smith, a private developer. With four office buildings already completed and another four in the works, Mr. Smith and Mr. Moss have turned Culver City into their own urban renewal project, an enterprise zone for the architectural imagination.
These office buildings are classic illustrations of a phenomenon Mr. Reich describes: the shift from manufacturing to service industries that is transforming the American economy. Culver City, an independent municipality on the edge of Los Angeles, contains large stretches of industrial wasteland, with scores of factories that have been abandoned as manufacturing jobs have been transferred to Mexico, the Philippines and other centers of cheap labor. In the past seven years, Mr. Moss and Mr. Smith have renovated four of these buildings: 8522 National Boulevard, the Gary Group, the Paramount Laundry and Lindblade Tower. Now, instead of blue-collar plants, they house such media-based industries as advertising, movie production and graphic design. Mr. Moss's buildings bear witness to the transformation. Within their industrial shells, Mr. Moss makes architecture with the graphic punch of the media age. He teaches old buildings new skills.
Mr. Moss attacks these projects in the spirit of Gordon Matta Clark, the artist known for his elaborate "cuttings" of abandoned buildings. He slices through walls, floors and ceilings, exposing trusses, sky, innards. Into the carved-out remains he inserts structural and spatial elements in a protean array of materials and forms. Bridges leap through space atop columns made of fat clay pipes. Walls wrap space into incongruent geometries that nonetheless merge. A skylit stairwell splices a cylinder together with a cube. A cone of plywood collides with walls of old brick. Where another designer might hang a painting, Mr. Moss cuts open a partition to frame a view of people working the phones.
Though these images are startling, they arise almost incidentally from Mr. Moss's way of working. Unlike many architects, he does not begin with one strong image of a building and then figure out how to make it stand up. He starts with an initial idea -- say, how to get into a building -- that then branches off to other ideas. His method is something like a writer's exploratory draft: thoughts pivot off other thoughts, propelling the mind in directions unforeseen when the first sentence was committed to paper. With Mr. Moss, the thoughts are ideas about access, circulation, enclosure, structure, lighting, materials: each aspect of the building opens up new avenues for exploration. Then he goes back and makes whatever adjustments are needed so that the ideas support one another.
Of course, all architects revise their ideas in the course of designing a building. What distinguishes Mr. Moss is the degree to which the completed building retains the improvised air of the initial draft. Like writers who write to find out what they think, Mr. Moss designs to see what kinds of information can be extracted in the making of a place. He lays particular stress on the hardware that joins his ideas together: trusses, beams, cables, plates. These details offer visual reassurance that the spaces we're walking through aren't just a random collection of passing spatial fancies. They're tied down, bolted, fitted together with painstaking mental craft. The precision of the joinery balances the informality it makes possible.
The joints are metaphors for work. Mr. Moss's spaces, forms and materials are all pieces of information. His joints link those pieces together to create areas where information is pooled. The result is an architectural analogy to the climate of mental exchange that nurtures businesses based on information. "When one's job is to think about and communicate abstract ideas," Robert Reich observes, " 'work' occurs wherever and whenever ideas are communicated." For Eric Moss, space is knowledge. It is neither sequestered away in private boardrooms nor dispersed evenly over totally open floor plans. It gathers in corners, seeps in through windows, rises to the ceiling in effervescent bubbles of speculation and gossip.
The show at Harvard, which examined in detail eight recent and current projects, simulated the analytic process behind the work itself. With models, sketches, construction drawings and photographs, the show traced the evolution of small, tentative ideas into large, sculptural masses. But there are few architects whose work is less amenable to the exhibition format. In a text that accompanied the exhibition, Mr. Moss writes that "the task of architecture is both to put things together and, simultaneously, to re-examine, to take things apart." Only in the buildings can one experience how taking things apart can be a spellbinding way of putting them together.
Yet even inside the buildings themselves the spell sometimes breaks. Then you may slip into that chilling state of mind, a familiar one in Los Angeles, when you feel pushed to the edge by media excess: the ceaseless art direction, the brilliant conjuring of images, the explosions of color that rise up before the eye, dazzle briefly and subside, like the images of a kaleidoscope that turns a blind eye to the world.
Robert Reich can leave you with the same dazzling but bleak impression: a picture of an America fast-forwarded into a hyperbolic world of symbolic abstractions, a nation of people sitting inside sealed office buildings, gazing raptly at computer screens, heedless of the world outside. Meanwhile, the material needs of these ethereal souls are taken care of by unseen, unskilled, underpaid laborers or "in-person service providers," as Mr. Reich calls them, proles with less social status than robots. When that dyspeptic picture takes over, a burned-out storefront may appear a more telling form of "symbolic analysis" than all of Eric Moss's ingenious joints. Perhaps it's only a delusion to think that, with proper training, all can share in the good life enjoyed by Mr. Reich's privileged caste.
Yet possibly the symbols circulating among those computer screens will disclose more effective ways to educate children, treat disease or turn an inner-city neighborhood around. A creative solution to a social crisis may emerge from minds at play. As optimistic in spirit as it is generous in form, Mr. Moss's architecture inspires faith in the city as a limitless source of ideas yet to be hooked up.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Paramount Laundry building -- Space gathers in corners, seeps in through windows, rises to the ceiling in effervescent bubbles of speculation and gossip. (Alex Vertikoff); Lindblade Tower -- Architecture with the graphic punch of the media age. (J. Scott Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; CULVER CITY (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (87%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; MOSS, ERIC OWEN FRANK OWEN GEHRY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



352 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Establishing Guidelines;
The Redevelopment Of City-Owned Sites

 BODY:
In the hope of shaping future redevelopment in 24 areas where New York City owns large amounts of vacant land or condemned and foreclosed buildings, the City Planning Department is developing guidelines for the disposition of these properties.
The first eight plans cover Long Pond/Butler Manor and West Poillon Woods on Staten Island; south central Harlem; northern Bathgate, Highbridge and Crotona Park East-Crotona Park South in the Bronx; East New York/New Lots in Brooklyn and Edgemere, Queens. 
 "The strategies are tailored to the unique conditions, issues and opportunities in each neighborhood," said Richard L. Schaffer, director of the planning department.
For example, planners recommend sites for new schools in Highbridge, owner-occupied housing and a new supermarket for East New York, medium-density housing in Harlem and preservation of natural areas in the Staten Island neighborhoods.
The plans cost $3 each and are available at the department's bookstore, 22 Reade Street, east of Broadway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (88%); BOOKSTORES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



353 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Early Lease Renewals;
Making Deals That Work to Everyone's Advantage

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
WHITTLE Communications was perfectly happy with the 4,000 square feet of offices in the Seagram Building that it had rented five years ago.It was less happy with the above-market rent to which it was committed for five more years.
So when it needed 10,000 feet more, Whittle and Brian D. Gell, the Edward S. Gordon managing director who handles the building's leasing, worked out a deal. They tore up the lease and wrote a new one to cover 14,000 feet at a rental still about $10 above market but a good 30 percent below what Whittle had been paying. 
 Both sides feel good about the deal. Whittle did not have to sublease at a loss, incur moving costs or write off the undepreciated portion of the improvements it had made to its space. Mr. Gell will not have to market the space when the lease runs out.
"We could have gotten a lower rental if we moved, but on an overall cost basis this was a win situation for us," said Douglas Kennedy, Whittle's vice president for facilities.
Added Mr. Gell: "When a creditworthy tenant takes three times the space they had, this kind of transaction makes sense."
Early renewals make sense for lots of reasons these days. Landlords are often willing to forgo some immediate cash flow in exchange for a guaranteed income for the next 10 years.
Thus, they are agreeing to long-term rents that, while $10 or so above the going market, are still many dollars below the rents and escalations that tenants had agreed to in the boom days of the 1980's.
In fact, some landlords are so gung-ho on early renewals that they've begun paying brokers full commission for them, a practice that was anathema scarcely four years ago.
"Landlords finally realize they'd have to pay full commission and a lot of free rent to get a new tenant," said Bruce Mosler, vice chairman of Galbreath Riverbank, which represented Whittle in its advance renewal.
Other brokers note that their tenant clients are optimistic enough about the economy to go ahead with expansion plans, particularly if they can lock in tomorrow's space at today's rents.
"They're saying, 'If we're going to expand let's do it now,' " said Robert L. Freedman, vice chairman of Williams Real Estate.
Even tenants that are not growing are renewing early to lock in reasonable rents.
For example, Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, a law firm, recently signed a new 15-year lease for its 100,000 square feet at 30 Rockefeller Center, even though its old lease was at below-market rates. The company did not ask for a substantial rent reduction; it just wanted to avoid a substantial increase when its lease expired in late 1994.
The motivations behind early renewals aren't exclusively financial. Leasing agents report that many professional partnerships are committing to long leases now, even at relatively high rents, in exchange for a landlord's agreement that, should the firm ever default on the lease, the partners will not be held personally liable.
Other tenants are using early renewals as a way to get all of their leases to expire at the same time, thus simplifying accounting and making it easier to extricate the whole company from space if it does eventually move.
The Securities Industry Automation Corporation, for example, was juggling several leases for its 100,000 square feet at 55 Water Street. The company has extensive computer systems installed, so it wanted to be certain thatall its operations would stay put for a while and that if it did eventually move its leases would expire at the same time.
It got the landlord to tear up all the leases and draw one new one covering all the space for 13 years.
"WE got a lower rent, but the reason for the advanced renewal was functional, not economic," said Jonathan C. Rudes, the Wm. A White/Grubb & Ellis senior vice president who represented the company.
Even if the renewal negotiations do not start over money, tenants usually throw rent reductions into the negotiation pot.
AGIP Petroleum, the American arm of the Italian oil monopoly, was so unhappy with the air-conditioning in its 20,000 square feetat 666 Fifth Avenue, near 52d Street, that it was thinking of moving. But it liked the location, and with less than three years left on its lease it was impractical to try to sublet.
Eric Peniston, the Cushman & Wakefield senior director who represents AGIP, told Sumitomo Realty, the building's owner, that AGIP would sign a new 15-year lease if Sumitomo would refurbish the space, put in new air-conditioning and halve the rent to $25 a foot with stepups, from the $50 a foot to which it had escalated. Sumitomo agreed.
When a lot of space is at stake, landlords may offer rent reductions themselves.
Prudential Insurance, which owns 100 Park Avenue, near 40th Street, recently suggested an early renewal to a 40,000-square-foottenant who needed an additional 25,000 feet. The lease, which called for more than $40 a foot in a building where the going rent was about $28, expires in late 1994.
"We figured how long it would take to find a new tenant and what kind of rent we would get, and then we compared that scenario to the costs of taking a market deal for the premises today," said Joseph G. Costabile, a Cushman & Wakefield senior director who handles leasing for the building. They recast the lease so that all the space would go for $30 a foot, $2 above market rent.
Still, for now, most early renewals are done at the tenant's behest. Mr. Gell, for example, has made no renewal overtures to other tenants in the Seagram Building.
"Many of our tenants are paying very high rentals, and it doesn't pay for us to lower them unless they are expanding significantly," he said.
Indeed, not all landlords are enamored of early renewals, particularly at a time when rents seem ready to move north. Some have a psychological aversion to negotiating with one of their own tenants and are loath to offer the kind of deal they would have to give if the space were vacant.
"The majority of deals I do are still relocations, because existing landlords simply couldn't bring themselves to negotiate a satisfactory deal ahead of time," said Mitchell S. Steir, a senior managing director with Julien J. Studley Inc.
Sometimes, lenders will refuse to O.K. an early renewal at lower rents. Since leases are generally binding even if the building changes hands, lenders fear being locked into below-market rents if they have to foreclose on the building some years hence.
"The biggest hurdle is finding a landlord whose lender will let the owner do the early renewal," said Joseph G. Genovesi, managing director of DG Hart Associates.
Moreover, landlords who do agree to advance renewals often play hardball on the new rent. Many will not lower rents for tenants with more than two years left on their leases, on the assumption that it is too soon for those tenants to go into the rental market anyway.
"You make an educated guess on whether the tenant will renew," said one leasing agent who insisted on anonymity. "If you think they'll stay, you don't reduce their rent."
INCREASINGLY, landlords are insisting that tenants factor their own cost of moving into the rental equation.
Philip R. Sprayregen, a senior vice president at CB Commercial, had one client, a huge financial services firm, that was considering moving from its 325,000 square feet in downtown Manhattan to Brooklyn or New Jersey. Then it realized that moving would cost $100 a foot.
Even if the new landlord reimbursed it for much of that cost, it would have to lay it out, incurring substantial interest expense. If it sublet its space, it would suffer huge losses, and if it didn't, maintaining the rent on that space would cost more than the considerable months of free rent the new landlord would probably agree to.
"We could have found them space at $15 less than what they were paying, but the savings just evaporated in moving expenses," Mr. Sprayregen said.
The firm, which had four years to go on its lease, renewed at a rent within $1 of market and extended the lease for 16 years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian D. Gell, who handles leasing at Seagram Building, in space recently leased to Whittle Communications. (Stacey P. Morgan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING PROPERTY LEASES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (78%); 

PERSON: GELL, BRIAN; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



354 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Bond Traders Love Clinton, And Vice Versa

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IT'S a wonderful time to be a bond trader. It's not just that the value of bonds in inventory has risen so far, producing profits and big bonuses. It's also the new respect from Washington.
Almost on an hourly basis, it seems, some Clinton Administration official cites the bond market as evidence of economic health and Wall Street approval. 
 For bond-market veterans, such attention must be heady. The real old-timers can recall a time when the bond desk was the place to which not-so-sharp nephews were sent when in need of work. They couldn't do too much harm there, it was thought.
But now, Washington hails the bond market as a barometer of the nation's health. On the Monday morning after the bombing of the World Trade Center, we learn from a Wall Street Journal reporter who was following the President around, Mr. Clinton asked if the bond market would be affected. He is not reported to have asked about stocks or commodities, although it was the New York commodity exchanges that were most directly affected.
That focus reflects the great Washington hope. Lower interest rates, it is believed, can both stimulate the economy and record a vote of confidence from the financial markets. For sure, such lower rates can save money for a debtor that issues $2 trillion in new securities every year, but Washington's reverence for the bond market seems to go deeper than that. "It's a kind of market mysticism," says James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer. "I've never seen anything like it in any Administration."
Perhaps it should be viewed as a sentiment indicator. Bullishness on bonds is so ingrained that it is taken for granted that no one who points to low rates will be embarrassed by a serious market reversal. Stock prices are also high, but there is less confidence that they will keep rising, and they are seldom mentioned by politicians.
Mr. Grant recalled the very different attitude toward the bond market shown by Donald T. Regan when he was President Reagan's Treasury Secretary. Mr. Regan, who had run Merrill Lynch and was familiar with many a bond trader, was generally dismissive of their wisdom. Another Reagan aide, the economist Murray Weidenbaum, compared bond traders to "slow students."
As it turned out, he had a point. Bearishness was widespread then, and wrong. "Could it be," asked Mr. Grant, "that the bond market is no more perceptive now, at 6.75 percent, than it was then, at 15 percent?"
Interest rates could, of course, go lower. In 1955, long-term Treasuries yielded less than 3 percent. But it is quite possible that Robert Barbera, the chief economist at Lehman Brothers, is right when he says, "There is more risk than reward in the bond market now."
That is not necessarily bad news for the economy. The lowest interest rates in this century came during the Depression, and there would be few tears, except among bond bulls, if higher rates in 1993 reflected a surge of economic activity.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 23.24 to 3,427.82," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, Mar.5-12, 1993; "A Long Road Down," tracks rates on 20-year Treasuries, 1983-1992; "Real Rates Are Low," tracks yield on 5-year Treasuries less the year-to-year change in consumer prices, 1986-1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NORRIS, FLOYD RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



355 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2835 words

HEADLINE: The Unorthodox Behemoth of Law Firms

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
WHEN the managing partners of most of the nation's top law firms gathered recently, the conversation turned to overseas expansion and the hot competition for multinational clients. "Someone said, 'You know, Baker & McKenzie did it right,' " recalled the lawyers' host, Steven Brill, editor of The American Lawyer. "And no one disagreed."
For many at the meeting, it was a case of bowing to the weight of the evidence, even if it was against their instincts. Skeptics have long derided Baker & McKenzie's unusual strategy of knitting lawyers in many countries into a confederation of offices, each of which keeps most of what it earns rather than sending it on to headquarters. Likening Baker to a legendary fast-food franchisor, some call the firm McLaw or McFirm. 
 But for all its critics, Baker has grown into the world's largest law firm by number of attorneys, with 1,640 lawyers in 32 countries. Profits per partner rose 21 percent in fiscal 1991, the fastest among the top 100 firms listed in The American Lawyer's annual survey. While foreign offices have been prestigious money losers for many big-name law firms, Baker's have thrived. And the firm had $505 million in gross revenues in its most recent fiscal year, which would be enough to overtake Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom of New York for the No. 1 ranking by revenues in the survey to be published this June if, as rumored, Skadden's revenues were flat in 1992.
Baker differs strikingly from the typical American law firm that does work overseas. In fact, it describes itself as an international law firm rather than an American one with offices abroad. Its attorneys represent 45 nationalities and speak 60 languages, and the majority live outside the United States. By contrast, the typical American firm deals with international markets through a handful of overseas offices tightly controlled from the United States. Most are heavily populated by Americans who plan to return to the United States within a few years.
 
'Eat What You Kill'
 Baker's compensation scheme is also unusual. For established offices, no more than 25 percent of payments from a client go to the main office here, where they are used for firm expenses like business development, communications systems, support for new offices or practices, and a fund that provides extra compensation to worldwide partners based on seniority. But most of the money stays right where the actual work is done and is divided as the local partners see fit. The policy has been dubbed "Eat What You Kill."
By contrast, partners at most other firms contribute a far larger percentage of their billings to their firm's coffers and share more equally in the payout. And the main office controls the allocation of compensation in the local offices.
Baker is also unusual in that each month it distributes a 120-page booklet to every office showing every partner's billings and expenses for the month and the year to date. At other firms, few partners regularly receive detailed financial reports.
"Baker is so distinctive that we left it out of many of the charts in our book," said Marc Galanter, a visiting law professor at Stanford whose "Tournament of Lawyers," co-authored with Thomas Palay, is a recent study of the partnership structure of 50 large firms.
Baker's strategy reflects a belief that understanding local cultures and practice is at least as important as understanding local laws in helping clients meet their overseas goals. Consultants say the approach is similar to the tack taken even more successfully by international accounting firms like Arthur Andersen. But they also note that other strategies, like forming alliances with local law firms, can achieve many of the same goals.
Baker's critics imply that in its rush to open offices and willingness to embrace native lawyers, the firm is offering a huge menu but less than four-star fare.
Such accusations have always irked the firm. "Franchise is the F-word at Baker," said Bradford Hildebrandt, a leading consultant to law firms based in Somerville, N.J. But Baker does concede that its strategy and structure have led to uneven levels of quality and that with competition heating up, addressing those defects has to be its top priority.
"We won't stop expanding entirely, but enhancing the network in place is the dominant theme for the next few years," said John V. McGuigan (pronounced mic-WIG-gin), the 44-year-old Australian accountant-turned-lawyer who was elected chairman of the executive committee last year.
 
Chicago Origins
 Founded as a two-man insurance litigation firm here in 1949 by Russell Baker (who died in 1979) and John McKenzie (who died in 1962), Baker & McKenzie has grown to the point where "they are probably doing something somewhere for every major corporation in the world," said Bobbie McMorrow, head of McMorrow Associates, a leading legal recruiting firm based in Los Angeles.
Or even something everywhere. One recent client wanted to know the legal status and tax treatment of stock options in 15 European countries where a company it was acquiring had operations. Another received an evaluation of sex discrimination laws in 17 European countries within 24 hours of bringing the assignment to Baker's London office.
"Half of our time in Eastern Europe is spent on the phone with ministries trying to find out how they will handle things with no precedent," said James T. Hitch 3d, a New York-based partner who once practiced in Yugoslavia and has helped set up Baker operations in Warsaw, Budapest and Prague.
Baker represented Sony of Japan in its acquisition of CBS and Minoru Isutani, the secretive Japanese developer, in his high-profile purchase of the Pebble Beach Company in California. But for a firm its size, Baker actually does remarkably little major acquisitions work or other high-risk corporate finance for its largest clients. In the international sector, this highly lucrative "bet the company" segment of legal practice has been dominated by New York firms like Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton and Coudert Brothers, and old-line British firms.
Profits per partner in Baker's New York office run around $500,000, well above the $375,000 estimated by The American Lawyer for all Baker partners in 1991. But that scarcely breaks into the top 20 for New York. Five firms in the nation's deal-making capital had profits of $1 million or more per partner in 1991, led by Cravath, Swaine & Moore at $1.46 million. Baker is now working to beef up its practice in New York, Los Angeles and other corporate law centers where big deals are usually hatched.
But the larger problem now confronting Baker is whether the structure that has powered its growth could undermine it as the competition for overseas business heats up. Not only are multinational clients developing the in-house skills to handle some jobs they used to farm out to Baker, they also have more choices than ever if Baker fails to keep them happy. And other law firms are competing with Baker to hire foreign-born lawyers who also have extensive experience with American law, or to establish cooperative relationships.
"People have become much more aggressive about going overseas," said Isaac Shapiro, senior partner in charge of overseas business for Skadden Arps. Skadden, for instance, has opened 12 overseas offices with 60 lawyers since recruiting Mr. Shapiro in 1986 to head the effort.
 
Tougher Competition
 One sign of the intensity of the competition was how long it took Baker to get established in Prague, where it finally opened last month. Local attorneys whom Baker had courted were afraid that joining the firm would cost them too much lucrative referral business from London firms, and a number of American lawyers of Czech background had already been snapped up by other firms. A key piece finally fell into place when Baker lured Martin Radvan, a Czech, from Skadden.
In such an environment, there is less leeway for poorly written documents, slow response times, failure to anticipate client concerns, confusing billing or other quality lapses. Nor can Baker ignore the feathers ruffled when a local office pursuing its own profits offends a big company that is a major client for numerous other Baker offices, perhaps by representing a local company against it.
Baker attorneys say such conflicts are not a major problem. But senior partners like Robert Cox, Mr. McGuigan's predecessor as chairman, say they are devoting more time to coordinating relations with major clients.
An enterprise as democratically organized and diverse as Baker will never find it easy to develop and enforce firm-wide standards. But clients and other lawyers who might refer business to Baker are blunt in saying something must be done.
"I can think of some places where I'd use them as co-counsel and some where I wouldn't," said Michael Silverman, who oversees offices in Eastern Europe for Squire Sanders & Dempsey.
Some recruiters, including Ms. McMorrow, say these quality shortfalls make it almost impossible to recruit "rainmakers," attorneys who have the most lucrative clientele or are seen as the experts in their field.
"One client with a really big international practice told me just this past weekend, 'They have the offices I need but they are just not strong enough consistently,' " Ms. McMorrow said recently.
 
A Drive for Quality
 Baker attorneys say that the quality problems are exaggerated, but that any perception that they exist is a serious concern. Roger W. Rosendahl, who recently moved his international practice to Baker's Los Angeles office from Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, conceded, "I'm still measuring whether my clients see my being here as an advantage."
Since last summer, Mr. McGuigan has been Baker's point man in the drive to face up to the quality challenge. His predecessor, Mr. Cox, is an engaging, energetic master of the personal touch. Mr. McGuigan, an extremely competitive sports enthusiast whose concession to aging has been to switch from rugby to tennis, is relying on more than diplomacy to improve performance levels.
Baker recently named Frank Wheeler, a former senior vice president at the Great Lakes Chemical Corporation, one of the region's most successful industrial companies, to become chief operating officer of the firm. His mandate: to study how communications systems and other support functions can be improved.
Baker has also retained consultants to poll its members on their views of each other's strengths and weaknesses, and Mr. McGuigan made the quality campaign a major focus of discussions at the recent executive committee meeting in Taipei and regional partners meeting in Manila.
Spending on training associates has doubled to $700,000 in the past three years and the budget for other professional development has shot to $1.2 million from $350,000.
 
Creating a Family
 Mr. McGuigan and other senior partners are counting on a reservoir of family feeling in the firm to help the quality drive. Russell Baker, the firm's founder, was famous for putting up young lawyers at his home. Spouses are routinely included in regional meetings. Mr. Cox happily recalls the time several years ago when the firm put together an international cookbook, and says he spent a great deal of his tenure worrying about how to preserve warmth as Baker grew.
One technique has been to subdivide the firm into regions and practice specialties (there are now more than 40), and to encourage relationships within these groups. The firm has been supporting a growing number of meetings like its annual briefing here on environmental law developments around the world.
"I got answers right there instead of having to leave my questions," said Lloyd A. Stewart, an environmental executive for Tenneco Inc. who attended the most recent such briefing here last June.
Baker also brings associates from around the world to meet socially. And at any given time, it has 40 or 50 of them posted to offices far from the one that hired them to strengthen their understanding of its network.
The ultimate decisions are made by the annual worldwide partners meeting, which resembles nothing so much as a meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, according to former guests. The chances of any centralized clique forcing change are further reduced by the firm's practice of not allowing executive committee members to serve more than four years.
"The process can slow us down and raise costs," said Mr. McGuigan, who said Baker is considering assigning some annual meeting decisions to the 60-member policy meeting.
But that process is also what has made Baker a much more cohesive and powerful enterprise than detractors thought possible. Said Mr. Rosendahl, the new partner in the Los Angeles office: "It's more of a centralized vision than people realize."
 
 
 
HE'LL 'CARRY THE MESSAGE'
 BAKER & MCKENZIE underscored its international outlook by choosing John V. McGuigan, an Australian in charge of its Hong Kong office, to succeed Robert Cox as chairman of its executive committee. Trained as an economist at Sidney University, Mr. McGuigan, now 44, picked up his law degree by attending night school there while working as an accountant for Price Waterhouse. He joined Baker in 1973.
Mr. McGuigan started out providing tax and general corporate law advice to mining and oil companies, a practice that spilled over into mergers and acquisitions involving Japanese and American companies that invested heavily in Australia in the early 1980's. He moved to Hong Kong in 1985, where he oversaw a quintupling of Baker's revenues over the next six years and the opening of offices in Shanghai and Guangzhou.
Mr. McGuigan emerged as chairman from a year-long process that involved interviewing 158 partners viewed as possible candidates. "He's very sharp financially, he has zeal and passion, and he's willing to go anywhere to carry the message," Mr. Cox said.
No American city could have been better suited to Mr. McGuigan's temperament than sports-crazy Chicago. But his wife, Rondel, and their four children have a better shot at putting down roots, because Baker business keeps Mr. McGuigan on the road about 60 percent of the time.

 
 
MEANWHILE, THERE'S TROUBLE BACK AT HOME
 While no overseas country seems too foreign for Baker & McKenzie to take root in, the firm has not always fared so well in this country.
An office set up in Minneapolis in the late 1970's generated so little business that it became the only one Baker has ever permanently closed. More recently and more painfully, Baker's attempt to establish a beachhead in Los Angeles by absorbing Macdonald, Halsted and Layborne, a 70-lawyer Los Angeles firm, has been an expensive fiasco. Baker added lawyers to the office but the expansion coincided with the collapse of the local economy. That left local partners in debt to the firm. Baker has invested nearly $1 million trying to steady the rocking ship, which several key Macdonald veterans have abandoned.
"Ten years from now, there won't be any sign of these problems," said Robert Cox, Baker's former managing partner. "But you have to deal openly with your mistakes."
Baker has also in recent years been confronted by a complaint to the New York Division of Human Rights that it fired a lawyer because he had AIDS and by a lawsuit in Chicago from an attorney who accused the firm of age and sex discrimination. The administrative law judge in the New York case last summer concluded that Baker should pay $1 million in damages plus lost pay to the estate of the lawyer, who died in 1987. Baker contested the findings and the case is now before Margarita Rosa, the State Commissioner of Human Rights. The Chicago case has not gone to trial.
Perhaps the most humiliating incident occurred in December 1988, when a Baker partner on a recruiting trip to the University of Chicago asked a black student how she would handle being called "black bitch" by another lawyer. Chicago, Stanford, the University of California at Berkeley and Georgetown University temporarily banned Baker from recruiting at their law schools and Harvard University put the firm on probation. Baker forced the partner to retire, stepped up efforts to recruit minority-group members and gave money to law schools for minority scholarships.
Baker's lack of pro bono work, as charitable law practice is known, has left it with scant good will on which to fall back when bad publicity surfaces. Although one of its founders, Russell Baker, was known in Chicago's Mexican neighborhoods during the Depression as one of the few Spanish-speaking members of the local bar willing to defend the poor, pro bono is, in the words of John McGuigan, the current managing partner, "not part of the firm's corporate culture." Until Mr. Cox's recent efforts to establish an International Press Center here, Baker has been almost invisible in Chicago civic affairs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John V. McGuigan, Baker's chairman, is trying to build a high-quality network out of a confederation of lawyers in many nations. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times) (pg. 1)
 
Chart: "How Baker & MacKenzie Stacks Up," tracks top ten American law firms by gross revenue and by revenue per lawyer. (Source: The American Lawyer) (pg. 6)
 
Map/Graph: "Global Reach" Map shows location of cities with offices of Baker & MacKenzie. Graph shows breakdown of Baker & MacKenzie revenues by region. (Source: Baker & MacKenzie (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: BAKER & MCKENZIE SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (92%); BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAKER & MCKENZIE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LEGAL PROFESSION; LAWYERS; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES LAWYERS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (91%); RANKINGS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (78%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); FRANCHISING (54%); FRANCHISORS (54%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J RUSSELL WAYNE BAKER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



356 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Turning Up Roses in Tokyo

BYLINE: By Andrew Pollack

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
IF one looked only at the Tokyo stock market, it almost seemed as if Japan's bubble economy had returned.
The market broke out of its doldrums and climbed for six consecutive days, including a stunning 5 percent rise on Monday. The Nikkei average of 225 selected stocks closed on Friday at 18,037.52, or 7.6 percent above the close on March 4; it was the index's first finish above 18,000 since September. On two days during the rise, trading volume reached 800 million shares, several times the recent average. 
 But looking outside the stock market, Japan seems in the same old rut. Almost daily, another company announces a loss for the year or a workforce reduction. Business confidence is at its lowest point in two decades. And on Friday, the Government announced that Japan's gross national product grew at an anemic annualized rate of only 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter. The gross domestic product actually fell for the third consecutive quarter.
Is this a contradiction? Yes, say some analysts, who think the stock market is heading for another fall. No, optimists say, contending that the market has finally bottomed out and has nowhere to go now but up.
One reason for optimism is that the Government has been directing public pension funds into the stock market to prop up prices and has been urging companies not to sell their holdings.
Moreover, some analysts say, Japan's economy has been hit by so much bad news that investors have become numb. The market barely reacted, for instance, to the strengthening of the yen in the last month, which threatens to hurt Japan's important automobile and electronics exports.
"It's been through three years of pneumonia," said Kathy Matsui, strategist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities. "Another bout of sneezes is not going to throw the market out of whack."
But analysts also say that what is now occurring is investment in advance of an economic recovery. That recovery is not expected until the end of 1993 or even later, but by the time it becomes evident, it might be too late to invest in stocks while they are still cheap.
"We can't really say we've turned the corner, but we have seen an improvement in sentiment," Ms. Matsui said.
Foreign investors, who had long neglected the Tokyo stock market, seemed to be taking bigger positions, she said. And Japanese institutional investors, while not plunging in, are at least getting nervous about sitting on the sidelines.
There are some valid reasons for this optimism. Japan's Government has been making stronger statements recently that it will enact another big economic stimulus package this year. And if the United States continues its economic recovery, exporters like automobile and electronics companies might benefit from increased demand.
Companies are also starting to become more aggressive in restructuring, although their measures -- reduced hiring and voluntary retirements -- are far less severe than those used in the United States. Even if Japanese companies do not return to their former robust strength, any increase in profits could lead to a gain in stock price.
Yuichi Matsushita, strategist at Nikko Securities, said the market sentiment regarding corporate cutbacks had changed. Last year, he said, when a company announced a loss or a work force reduction, investors took it as a sign of economic trouble, and the market declined. "But these days, whenever a company announces a restructuring, the market reacts positively," interpreting it as a step toward recovery, he said.
No stock has benefited more from changing sentiment than giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, the market's largest issue and long the villain. The precipitous fall of NTT stock in the last couple of years seemed to epitomize the Tokyo market's problems.
But in the last two weeks, telephone company shares have shot up more than 30 percent, closing Friday at 810,000 yen, up 15,000 yen for the day. Investors were reacting favorably to an announcement by the company that it would shed 30,000 jobs in the next few years and to the prospect that rates would be raised for local phone calls. In addition, Government officials are talking about building a modern telecommunications system to stimulate the economy.
The problem with investing in anticipation of a recovery is that the market could go back down if the recovery does not materialize. Noboru Kawai, chief economist for Morgan Stanley Japan, said the market's rise last week was caused by peculiar factors, "none of which is really sustainable."
One factor causing the rise, he said, was the mistaken notion that "the economy and corporate earnings situation is getting so bad it must be close to the bottom."
Mr. Kawai expects the economy to remain in a slump through 1993 and into 1994 and predicts that earnings in the coming fiscal year will be even worse than in this year. Corporate investment will not increase, and consumer spending, which is extremely weak, will continue to be depressed, as more people lose their jobs, he said.
Mr. Kawai said that while he thinks the current level can be maintained for a while, the market will trade in the range of 16,000 to 18,500 in coming months, meaning that stocks are now about as high as they will go. Investors who have wanted to sell stock will take advantage of the recent rise to do so, putting more pressure on prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (53%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); BONDS (71%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (51%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); PNEUMONIA (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



357 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
More Than Labor Amity at A.T.& T.

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
WHEN A.T.& T. and its unions settled their differences and signed a contract last year, the talk afterward was of mutual interests, shared goals and cooperation in service of defeating a common enemy, global competition. Conspicuously absent was the rowdy take-it-easy-but-take-it language associated in the public's imagination with collective bargaining. There was amity, but of a sort that tends to fade.
Except this year, it didn't. Last week, 1,000 members of the A.T.& T. work force, roughly divided between management and two A.T.& T. unions, the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, gathered at a conference center in the New Jersey wilderness. The object: to prepare for the "Workplace of the Future," a company-union initiative instigated by a clause in the 1992 contract calling for labor participation in business strategy decisions. 
 The spectacle of labor coming to the table with management, to praise mutually, not to bury, was, in the words of one longtime A.T.& T. executive, "something not seen before in my time." Cheered on in a keynote address by Labor Secretary Robert Reich, the two ancient rivals spent the day plotting A.T.& T.'s future.
Worker participation is not entirely new at A.T.& T. Almost 10 years ago, the union tried to improve its members' lot with a "quality of life" proposal. The company has experimented with labor-management projects. Some of the programs continue, but some failed, victims of labor upheavals, personnel departures or restructurings.
But the new contract calls for an unusual degree of labor-management cooperation that can be achieved only by a huge change in culture. It is the type of change Mr. Reich and other members of Bill Clinton's policy wonkocracy consider critical to restoring civility to employee-employer relations and, with it, oomph to the American economy.
A.T.& T. could try hauling into the next century on its current management paradigms and generally impregnable behemothness. But the suburban New Jersey-based telecommunications giant does not want to become a pregnable behemoth, like its neighbor to the northeast, I.B.M. "It's a bread-and-butter issue," said Burke Stinson, an A.T.& T. spokesman.
Telecommunications has not been an especially cheerful industry since 1984, when its monopoly protection went the way of the Nehru jacket. Labor strife increased. Yippy little counter-behemoths like MCI and Sprint began circling A.T.& T.'s ankles. Hence the company's interest in strategies that might smooth its return to a clear and peaceful domination of its world markets.
What's in it for the unions? Why give up the pleasure of the barricades for -- gag -- collaboration? In the years before 1992, "the union was in a reactive mode," said Morton Bahr, C.W.A. president. "We had no role in the decision-making process. Everything that was negotiated took place essentially after decisions were made. This contract guarantees us, in writing, to be involved in the information-sharing process that's so necessary before decisions are made."
THE appropriate buzz phrase for what Mr. Bahr is talking about is "worker empowerment," which stands in for the cornier and unwieldy "giving workers dignity by giving them some control over their lives." Theoretically, at least, the contract could lead to the quality-of-worklife improvements the C.W.A. has sought before. Theoretically it could also institutionalize something unions have been trying to tell management, at different volumes, for years: A happy worker is a more productive worker.
In return for flexibility, the unions get a voice and a company commitment to, among other things, employment security, education and training or retraining.
A.T.& T. seems genuinely intent on reconfiguring its corporate culture, a task likened by one conference participant to "turning an aircraft carrier around." There is agreement between the parties that the workplace of the future will have four components: "workplace models," strategies for promoting change; business unit/division planning councils to improve customer satisfaction; the constructive relationship council, a remnant of the 1989 contract agreement that will review contract-related issues, and a human resources board whose scope will include external issues like health care that have an impact on A.T.& T. employees.
Resistance to the impending change tends to come from lower- and middle-management, which probably has the most to lose by the convergence of blue-collar and white-collar interests. "There is a lot of resistance to the sharing of power," said William Ketchum, the A.T.& T. executive responsible for the initiative. Similarly, union resistance tends to come not from the rank and file but from the local-president level, which worries about being usurped by the new model. Resistance -- table-pounding as Mr. Bahr put it -- may be satisfying but futile. Both the unions and A.T.& T. seem convinced that they've seen the future, and it works.
 
 
 
THE REICH VISION FOR THE WORKPLACE
 WHEN Bill Clinton appointed Robert Reich as Labor Secretary, it looked as if the prolific, professorial ur-F.O.B. was settling for a lesser post than he had expected. After all, Labor Secretaries of the Reagan-Bush years, three of whom were female, tended to behave in the manner of First Ladies, picking worthy, high-profile causes while allowing the more traditional functions of the department to wither.
Mr. Reich says he got the post he asked for. He has informally renamed Labor the Department of the American Work Force and clearly means to move it toward a position of influence in economic policy making. His appearance at A.T.& T.'s "Workplace of the Future" conference indicated the Clinton Administration's support for initiatives that may increase productivity and competitiveness.
Will the Secretary use his muscle to impose his vision of the workplace of the future? "The Clinton Administration is about shared responsibility," Mr. Reich told a news conference at A.T.& T. "We will do everything we possibly can to create a climate in which American managers and American workers are encouraged to generate better products and highly productive workplaces, but in the end, it's up to workers and managers to do it. In this respect, I'm a cheerleader."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Labor Secretary Robert Reich, center, with William Ketchum, left, of A.T.& T., and Morton Bahr, of C.W.A. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA) AT&T CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA) INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LABOR UNIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (88%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT (SEC); BAHR, MORTON; KETCHUM, WILLIAM; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



358 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Counting Down to April 15

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
WHY are so many tax-free bond fund investors receiving year-end statements reporting taxable gains and income in 1992? Answers to this and other reader questions about taxes and fund investing may help as April 15 approaches.
Question: I bought shares in a tax-free bond fund last year and I just received a Form 1099-DIV that shows I earned taxable capital gains and income. How can that be? 
 Answer: Because interest rates fell during 1992, pushing up bond prices, many tax-free bond fund managers earned trading gains on which investors do owe income taxes; only the dividends paid by these funds are tax-free. Profits earned on issues held more than one year would be long-term gains, taxed at a top rate of 28 percent; profits from short-term trades would be passed along as ordinary income, taxable up to 31 percent.
Q: I'd like to move my existing individual retirement account money from one mutual fund to another, but I'm confused about how the new withholding rules apply.
A: You're referring to the law that took effect Jan. 1 requiring companies to withhold 20 percent for income taxes from some distributions from company-sponsored retirement plans. These rules do not apply to distributions from I.R.A.'s, said Robert M. Fields, an attorney with Reid & Priest, in New York.
If you move your I.R.A. yourself, you can avoid all taxes and penalties by reinvesting it in another I.R.A. within 60 days, which you can do once a year. But you can also move it as often as you like without penalty or taxes by directing a "trustee-to-trustee" transfer directly between I.R.A. custodians; this requires completing a "Change of Trustee" form that authorizes the mutual fund group to take the money from your old I.R.A.
Similarly, money from a pension or profit-sharing plan that is directly transferred to an I.R.A. avoids the new withholding rules. But the same money when withdrawn by the employee and then reinvested in a rollover I.R.A. is generally subject to withholding and the investor only receives 80 percent of the distribution. If the investor, however, is able to add back the 20 percent to reinvest the full amount in the I.R.A., then taxes are avoided and the amount withheld may be refundable.
Q: Like many people seeking higher yields, I bought shares in a short-term bond fund last year. My 1992 Form 1099-DIV from the Scudder Short-Term Bond Fund reports nontaxable distributions and instructs me to reduce my shares' basis by that amount when I sell. Please advise.
A: The fund's dividends are figured using generally accepted accounting principles, which can differ from the methods required to figure taxable income, and can therefore result in different income amounts being reported to the Internal Revenue Service and on the fund's statements to the investor.
In the Scudder case, two losses in 1992 -- currency losses on foreign issues and losses on premium Ginnie Mae securities -- were reported differently, forcing the fund to pay a bigger dividend than it actually earned for tax purposes. So the fund returned a portion of its distribution to investors in the form of capital, said Daniel B. Gross, a principal with Scudder, Stevens & Clark, in Boston.
Because return-of-capital dividends represent your own investment in the fund, not the fund's earnings, you owe no income taxes. The amounts do, however, reduce your "basis," that is, what you paid for the shares plus any adjustments, like this, since the purchase. When you sell any shares, your taxable gain equals the difference between the basis and the sale proceeds, so reducing the basis increases the capital gains owed when you sell the shares.
Q: I own shares in the Oppenheimer Equity-Income Fund in a tax-sheltered annuity, but think the $200 annuity fee is too high. Can I take out the money without penalty?
A: You must have purchased shares through an outside annuity provider because Oppenheimer charges $10 a year for annuities, said Bob Zack, senior vice president of the Oppenheimer Management Corporation. Fees range from $25 to $50 a year, he said.
There is a penalty for taking money out of a tax-sheltered annuity: 10 percent of the amount withdrawn plus income tax figured at your regular rates. One way to avoid the penalty is by moving the money into another annuity in a trustee-to-trustee transfer.
Q: I want to use the money I invested in mutual funds for my Keogh plan contributions. Can I just transfer the shares?
A: The law is unclear and the Supreme Court has agreed to decide the issue. One Federal appeals court has ruled that you must sell your shares in the fund and then contribute the proceeds to the Keogh. That means you would owe income taxes on any profits from the sale, even if you bought shares in the same fund for the Keogh.
Another court said that pension plan contributions may be made "in kind," for example, in the form of the mutual fund shares themselves, rather than in cash. In that case, taxes are still due on any unrealized gain in the shares (the full market value of the shares when they are contributed minus your basis in the shares), but you will not have had to pay any transaction costs, assuming you are dealing with a "load" fund, or, if a "no-load" fund, you will at least avoid the transaction hassle, Mr. Fields said.

GRAPHIC: Table lists number of tax-free bond funds that paid capital-gains distribution in 1992, by the type of municipal debt the fund concentrates on. (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THELEN LLP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BONDS (92%); BOND FUNDS (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



359 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Russia May Be A Spectacle Beyond Reach

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
CAN Bill Clinton save Boris Yeltsin?
The American President can embrace his Russian counterpart, send him food and money, promise to help reschedule his debts, invite him to a summit in Canada, ask him to help solve crises in the Balkans and the Middle East and maybe even look the other way if Mr. Yeltsin does some undemocratic things in the name of democracy.
But he cannot resolve Russia's constitutional crisis, make Mr. Yeltsin less a bully and more a statesman, pass a Russian code for private property, stabilize the ruble, dismantle Russia's nuclear arms, wipe out a bureaucratic mindset or settle Russia's disputes with Ukraine. 
 On Friday, after a hostile Russian Congress voted to slash Mr. Yeltsin's authority, the Russian President stalked out of the Grand Kremlin Palace, pledging to call a referendum on his own to decide who should rule his country. In the past week the Clinton Administration issued enthusiastic statements and announced initiatives to puff up Mr. Yeltsin in his showdown with his conservative foes, including a call for an early summit of the world's industrialized giants to devise an aid strategy and a donation of $102 million of American grain. But strip away the frenzy, and there was little that Mr. Clinton could do but sit on the sidelines and watch the drama play out.
For better or worse, Mr. Clinton has foreign policy elders like former President Richard Nixon looking over his shoulder and whispering in his ear that the only place he can prove his diplomatic manhood is in Moscow. "He can secure his place in history as a great President," Mr. Nixon wrote in an article on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times last week, if he shows the same "boldness and political courage" in addressing the Russia problem as he is showing with his domestic economic program. Mr. Nixon's similar -- and relentless -- campaign with President Bush last spring ultimately humiliated Mr. Clinton's predecessor into taking more aggressive steps to help Mr. Yeltsin, and Mr. Nixon obviously hopes it will work again.
Mr. Clinton has enough of a political ego that he wants neither to go down in history as the President who lost Russia nor to admit that there are limits to what American power can do in the post-Cold War world. But he has repeatedly vowed not to get engulfed in things foreign, and he knows that even if the United States and the West had endless funds to pour down the Russian rathole, it would not guarantee the triumph of Western-style capitalism and economic reform.
"Nobody on the outside can save a huge and complex country like Russia," said Dimitri Simes of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who, paradoxically, is Mr. Nixon's adviser on Russia. "If these people want to continue with gridlock, if they want to be at each other's throats all the time, if they want to completely undermine confidence in the central Government and risk that the
provinces and the regions go their own way, no foreign influence can change the situation."
Mr. Clinton knows that it costs Germany more than $100 billion a year to rebuild its eastern half, and that South Korea estimates it will take just short of a trillion dollars to bring North Korea into the 21st century should there be reunification. He has not decided just how much political and financial capital to spend on Russia, but he is unlikely to follow Mr. Nixon's advice slavishly and mount the same campaign for Russia that he is doing for the domestic economy. That would require not only massive new aid, but also a full-scale scare campaign to persuade Americans that the alternative is a return to totalitarian rule in Moscow and to bomb shelters at home.
And at a time when the Pentagon has announced the closing of scores of military installations, even that argument might not convince Americans that they should pay for housing for demobilized Russian soldiers and re-employing Russian nuclear scientists. Some American lawmakers have even called for a revolution of a different sort to help Mr. Yeltsin, suggesting that the Administration might take some money from foreign aid's most sacred cow: the $5.1 billion that goes to Israel and Egypt every year.
American presidents have often had difficulty abandoning friendly foreign leaders who are in trouble. During the campaign last year, Mr. Clinton castigated Mr. Bush for clinging to Mikhail S. Gorbachev after it appeared that he was no longer democratic enough. "Time and again, this Administration has sided with stability over democratic change," Mr. Clinton said.
But now that he is President, Mr. Clinton is dealing with a Russian leader who appears to represent both stability and democratic change. Clearly, the Clinton Administration is frustrated that despite its desire for Mr. Yeltsin to prevail, it is unable to shape or even predict the course of the unfolding revolutionary process in Moscow. When asked last week about Mr. Yeltsin's chances for survival, Mr. Clinton said he would support Mr. Yeltsin as long as he remains Russia's President, before admitting: "You know, I don't know what else to tell you. I'm not a seer."
 
High-Stakes Chicken
 One of Mr. Clinton's top aides on Russia has suggested that the Administration would not oppose a move by Mr. Yeltsin to make good on his threats to consolidate power by suspending what is considered an undemocratic Parliament or abolishing the Soviet-era Constitution. For now, the Administration is convinced that Mr. Yeltsin's threats are just one element in a high-stakes game of chicken among politicians unused to democracy. But Administration officials said they would draw the line if Mr. Yeltsin tried the "Fujimori solution" -- a reference to the use of Peru's military by President Alberto Fujimori last year to dissolve Congress and arrest opposition leaders.
And Secretary of State Warren Christopher told Russia's foreign minister Andrei V. Kozyrev in a telephone conversation on Friday that he hoped any action Mr. Yeltsin might take be consistent with the principles of democracy and human rights.
Mr. Yeltsin's battle with his Congress fuels the pessimists who have already declared Russia's reform movement dead. "We looked at this situation and saw democracy, markets, happy days are here again and what we forgot is that this stage is likely to be a very small blip on the course of Russian history, which has never gone through any prolonged enlightened process," said Marshall I. Goldman, a Russia expert.
Such a view is anathema to the Clinton Administration, which argues that Russia moves in fits and starts, that the players may shout and threaten and storm out of meetings as a way to maximize their positions, but in the end they tend to call a truce and share power. Still, it is hard to see how the man who is scheduled to sit down with Mr. Clinton in Vancouver early next month will be anything but severely weakened.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Straight to the point: People protesting Russia's economic situation in Moscow last week. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 1); Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, chairman of the People's Congress, attacking Boris N. Yeltsin last week. (Reuters) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UKRAINE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CONSTITUTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); TRENDS (67%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



360 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
'Lead . . . or Leave' Asks: Who's Spending Our Inheritance?

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
The words travel slowly across the computer screens in the downtown Washington office: "Lead . . . or Leave." This political signature of angry young fiscal Puritans doubles as a screen-saver program, somehow fitting for the rallying cry of the first generation to grow up with computers.
Less than nine months since the words were first typed onto a screen, the group Lead . . . or Leave is commanding the attention of senators, college students and Ross Perot. Its founders, clustered in donated office space in downtown Washington, the heartland of the special-interest lobbyists they deplore, have a grandiose vision: that the impact of their ideas may rival that of the antiwar crusade of the 1960's. 
 Except that one was about death. This one is about taxes or, more properly, about Uncle Sam's bills and who is going to pay them.
"The deficit," said a co-founder, Rob Nelson, "is our Vietnam." The first-person plural refers to the men, women and children born during and after that war. "There was a 14-year-old kid at our rally in Montgomery, Ala., last month," Mr. Nelson said. "Someone shoved a microphone in his face and asked if he knew what it was about. He said, 'Somebody borrowed a bunch of money, I'm getting the bill, I'm going to have to pay it, and I don't get anything for it.' Believe me, these kids get it."
Generational politics is a verity older than the nation-state, but one that has become permanently enshrined in American culture during this century with everything from the Silent Generation to the Vietnam Generation.
Mr. Nelson, 29, and his colleague Jon Cowan, 27, say even if generational struggles are traditional, Lead . . . or Leave is different. Like soldiers who arrived at the ammunition depot just as the ammunition ran out, they are fighting for the right to fight, for the right to inherit a government that will have something more than spare change to spend on them and their visions. They feel the Clinton budget could improve their lot, but not as much as they would like.
"The nation went on a vast spending spree that didn't produce anything but bills," said Mr. Cowan, who was an aide to former Democratic Representative Mel Levine of California. "Now we not only have a financial deficit, but a social deficit, an environmental deficit, an infrastructure deficit. We're selling out the American dream. Whether you're a liberal and you want a new War on Poverty or you're a conservative and want a capital gains tax cut, you can't do any of it."
 
Mighty MitesA Message
 Measured in standard terms, Lead . . . or Leave is a tiny ground-dweller in the political jungle, with neither membership (1,000 and growing) nor money nor much but a message. A year ago, its issue -- the deficit -- was talked about but seemed dry as dust. But by casting its members as children cheated by their irresponsible parents, the group is riding high on the new concept of generational accounting.
Generational accounting itself is a 90's creation, the brainchild of three economists: Laurence J. Kotlikoff of Boston University, Alan Auerbach of the University of Pennsylvania and Jagadeesh Gokhale of the Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank. Adding to the political-economic dictionary, they created a new economic yardstick, lifetime tax rates. By these measurements, Mr. Kotlikoff predicts, the lifetime tax rate for Americans born in 1900 was 21.5 percent. For Americans born in 1990, the lifetime tax rate will be 33.5 percent.
In these calculations, which define taxes as total tax payments minus total income transfers like Social Security, the trajectory is relentless: the later people are born, the more they will work for everyone else and the less for themselves. "This," Mr. Kotlikoff said, "is the natural outgrowth of four decades of Government pursuing a variety of different policies -- most of which don't show up on the Government's books -- to expropriate the young and future generations for the benefit of older generations."
However, advocates of the current Social Security structure, including the American Association of Retired Persons, argue that Social Security is a self-contained system that actually helps offset Government debt. A.A.R.P. is one of the principal targets on Lead. . .or Leave's most-wanted list of special interests. It was on that lobby's doorstep that these angry young men and women held a rally last month to protest the debts they said were being bequeathed to them.
Mr. Nelson and Mr. Cowan also reject the idea that they are simply the generational mirror-image of A.A.R.P. "What we want to do will help everyone," said Mr. Nelson, who did graduate study in international relations before deciding that he cared more about the situation at home. However, he does not favor cuts in student loans, which he sees as investment in the future.
Martha Farnsworth Riche, who heads the Population Reference Bureau in Washington, agrees with the world view of Lead . . . or Leave. "This is the first time in the country's history the population pyramid has changed shape," Ms. Riche said. The pyramid is a demographers' representation of successive generations, younger underneath the older. But since the 1970's, the pyramid has begun to look like a pillar with the baby-boom section giving it the appearance of middle-aged spread.
"Right now the number of older people, 55-plus, is proportionately larger than we've ever seen before -- but nothing like what we'll see in 20 years," Ms. Riche said. She believes the nation has a momentary political opportunity -- while the boomers are still paying into the system and before they have an interest in reaping their own entitlement benefits -- to change entitlements to lessen the burden on the future's young workers.
Robert Avery, a Cornell University economist, is nervous about neat generational schematics. While he agrees that the problems posed by the deficit are enormous, he said there are other issues, including health care, raising the retirement age and the potential impact of a disease like AIDS on the wage-earning population. He reminds worried young workers that some of those Government transfer payments will be coming back to them as inheritances.
"The real issue here is uncertainty," Mr. Avery said. "It's very hard to write long-term contracts between the generations when we don't know what's going to happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Nelson, left, and Jon Cowan, founders of "Lead . . . or Leave," contend that the Federal deficit leaves the young with no options. (Lisa Berg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEAD..OR LEAVE (ORGN); AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS (AARP) AARP INC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEAD..OR LEAVE (ORGN); AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS (AARP) AARP INC (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL LOBBYING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); TAX LAW (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: NELSON, ROB; COWAN, JON; BARRINGER, FELICITY MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



361 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: The Nonproliferation Treaty Bares Its Toothlessness

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
ONLY a few months ago North Korea seemed like a pathbreaking example of how the world's great powers can set aside other differences to make sure that fanatical leaders and nuclear bombs are kept apart. Faced with overwhelming evidence that the hard-line Communist regime of Kim Il Sung was building a bomb, the United States harnessed the West, and then Russia and China, to stop the project from turning into a nightmare. For most of last year, it looked like the strategy was working.
Beneath his usual cloud of defiant oratory, the 80-year old Mr. Kim finally agreed to live up to his obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. He allowed international inspectors to visit the mysterious nuclear site called Yongbyon. His motives seemed clear. He sought the trade and investment he desperately needs, especially now that there are reports of food riots and troops stand on rail-side coal piles to keep the residents from stealing enough to heat their homes. 
 On Friday, though, it was Washington's seeming success that turned to coal -- and along with it, much of the world's confidence in the workability of the treaty that 153 nations have signed. In an unnerving and perhaps self-destructive act of defiance, North Korea became the first nation ever to renounce the treaty, barring the door completely to international inspectors who were on the scent of a secret cache of plutonium. Vice Foreign Minister Kang Sok Ju declared that the North had signed the accord in 1985 to reduce what he termed a nuclear threat from South Korea and the United States, and said "We are now withdrawing from it because it is being abused to destroy our republic."
Surprised and more than a little scared, Japan and South Korea denounced the action as destabilizing and dangerous. At the same time, though, there were second thoughts about whether the safeguards designed 25 years ago, in an age of superpower patrons for countries like North Korea, still have any teeth.
 
Something Fishy
 What use is a treaty that allowed a country to develop nuclear weapons for seven years while it barred inspectors -- and that is renounced as soon as the first inspectors in the door smell something fishy? Is the International Atomic Energy Agency, a United Nations affiliate with no enforcement powers, the right institution to keep countries like North Korea in line? And even if the issue goes to the Security Council, what can you take away from a country that has nothing?
"The treaty is no longer quite so sacrosanct today," said Leonard Spector, head of a project on nuclear proliferation on the Korean Peninsula at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "Now that one country has pulled out, others obviously can begin to think about it."
In many ways the North Korean experience is significantly different from the challenges the West has faced in dealing with nonsignatories -- including India, Pakistan, Israel and Algeria -- and even with countries that have signed and dodged, like Iraq. First, by all accounts, Saddam Hussein seems much farther from realizing his dreams than Kim Il Sung is. Estimates vary widely, but more and more analysts in the United States Government seem to agree that North Korea already has the raw material for at least one bomb, and a few think some crude, still-untested devices may have already been built. Second, North Korea has turned weaponry into its only successful export business; it ships home-grown missiles to the Middle East, and presumably would have few qualms about shipping nuclear weapons.
But perhaps most important, rather than play an Iraq-style game of hide-and-seek with the inspectors, the North has used the access to its nuclear facilities guaranteed by the treaty itself as a bargaining chip. In its statement Friday it said it would only return to the regime if "the United States stops its nuclear threats against the North" -- which was interpreted as a reference to the annual "Team Spirit" military exercises now under way between South Korea and the United States -- and if the atomic energy agency "returns to its principle of independence and impartiality."
In short, Mr. Kim turned a situation in which it held no cards -- he was trying to hold off a "special inspection" of two sites that American spy satellites have identified as waste dumps that would probably show how much plutonium he has produced -- into a situation in which he now holds at least one: re-entry into the treaty. In fact, once a three-month waiting period to exit the treaty expires, his bomb-development work will become legal.
"From the start it was always assumed that if a country did withdraw from the treaty, it would be a signal that they had decided to make a bomb," Gary Milhollin, the head of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, said recently. "If not, why take the political heat?"
What got everyone to this point is a 25-year-old system that acknowledges the right of every nation to use nuclear materials for peaceful purposes, even if those same materials, especially plutonium, are relatively simple to rework into weapons. It is the "safeguards" system of inspection that is supposed to assure that materials intended for civilian plants stay in civilian use.
The biggest advocates of that system are countries like Japan, which is already extracting plutonium from nuclear waste, much as North Korea is trying to do, as part of its aggressive civilian nuclear power program. These days the Japanese find themselves in the diplomatically embarrassing position of arguing that they have every right to do so because the world recognizes them as a solid international citizen, while at the same time arguing that their North Korean neighbors must be denied the right because they have an attitude problem.
 
Plutonium Politics
 The North Koreans, naturally, say that their intentions are benign and that the I.A.E.A. is "tacitly approving" moves by Japan and South Korea to secretly arm themselves.
"We are seeing the breakdown of a regime that believed that plutonium and bomb-grade material are O.K. as long as they are under safeguard," said Paul L. Leventhal, president of the Nuclear Control Institute and a harsh critic of the precedent set by Japan's plutonium effort.
Officials in Japan and South Korea, naturally, say they have no interest in nuclear arms. The Japanese have long renounced them, and South Korea stopped developing them after the United States got wind of its project in the late 1970's. But preventing such an arms race has always depended on Seoul and Tokyo remaining unshakably confident that the United States' support, and its nuclear umbrella, extends over them.
Though few will say it publicly, that is what the Team Spirit exercise, which was suspended last year when the North looked like it was beginning to cooperate, is all about. This year the United States brought the B-1B bomber and other nuclear-capable equipment to South Korea for the exercises, presumably to make a point. And it was exactly that which sent the North into a frenzy, declaring early last week that they were going on a "semi-war footing" because invasion was imminent.
Now Washington is in the position of having few attractive options. Some officials, including many in Japan and a few members of the two-week old South Korean Government, argue that going ahead with the 125,000-troop Team Spirit exercise this year is an unnecessary provocation. But it is too late to back down. Though the American military has endless scenarios for eradicating Yongbyon, everyone acknowledges they are of little use: If the North retaliated on Seoul, only 35 miles from the border, or on South Korean civilian nuclear plants, it would be disastrous.
Economic sanctions are likely to have little effect on a country that is already isolated from virtually all of its neighbors except China. Getting the Chinese to seal off that border, and with it food and fuel, is unlikely.
"It may not be over yet," said Mr. Spector. "We are about to see an intense diplomatic effort to get this turned around." But it may be, he said, that the world has little cause to be optimistic: Perhaps the North Koreans knew that they were about to get caught, he said, and the only solution was to jettison the one treaty that could betray them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; TREATIES; NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); RIOTS (53%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E ARLEN SPECTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



362 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
How Serbia's Czar Holds Fast to Power

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
ISOLATION, lawlessness and brain drain plague Serbia today, along with inflation, unemployment and a United Nations economic embargo. It would be enough to topple political leaders practically anywhere.
But not here. President Slobodan Milosevic, a Communist who metamorphosed into a nationalist, shows no signs of losing his grip on power. 
 That is crucial to the calculations of any diplomat trying to end the agony of the Balkans, because Serbia's leader, having inspired and backed nationalist Serbs in the republics next door, is still regarded as the man who could make them want to stop fighting; Lord Owen, co-chairman with Cyrus Vance of the international mediating effort, has even said he is counting on Mr. Milosevic to restrain Serbia's far right.
In some ways, this might seem outrageous. The United States has included Mr. Milosevic's name on a list of potential war-crimes suspects, and much of the outside world has expressed revulsion at Serb tactics in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Besides, Mr. Milosevic has a dismal record for seeking compromise and for keeping his word. But the overriding fact remains that he is firmly in charge and the man who must be dealt with. Indeed, last week he met in Paris with Mr. Owen, Mr. Vance and France's President, Francois Mitterrand, on the peace plan. To remain Serbia's czar, Mr. Milosevic has used a variety of tools, talents and techniques:
Nationalism. Today, nationalism is the only issue that really matters to a great many Serbians. Mr. Milosevic, in the 1980's, was among the first to recognize that this could become the case -- if then-latent nationalist feelings were properly cultivated. He did just that, and as a result is still the master of this issue.
He rose to power pledging to defend Serbs who felt endangered in the Kosovo region, where the overwhelmingly Albanian population wanted more autonomy. Later, facing opposition based on a stagnant economy and his own Communist past, Mr. Milosevic silenced critics by turning attention to wars he promoted in Croatia and Bosnia after those republics seceded from Yugoslavia. The rationale, again, was a claim that Serbian minorities needed protection.
Mr. Milosevic and his proteges have convinced most Serbs that these wars are not a brutal land grab, as much of the world sees them, but a struggle for Serbia's survival against a conspiracy of Islamic fundamentalists, neo-fascist Germans and Croats, Stalinists, the Vatican, the United States and the European Community. Each time pressure on Serbia has mounted, the purported conspiracy has grown more baroque. This adds to an authoritarian frame of mind, and to the notion that speaking out against Mr. Milosevic is akin to treason.
Television. In a land where much of the population is bound to the soil and functionally illiterate, and where newspapers are too expensive for many people, Mr. Milosevic holds full control of the only news outlet that matters: Television Serbia. Its 7:30 evening news broadcast, which surveys show is the only source of current-affairs information for about 65 percent of the population, has functioned since 1988 to instill fear and a siege mentality. In addition, Mr. Milosevic has interwoven what international election observers called ballot-box fraud with his control of television to win two elections in the last two years.
Economic leverage. As Serbia's economy tumbles, Mr. Milosevic's power has, in a seeming paradox, increased. Besides controlling the issuance of the funds that keep bankrupt enterprises, the bureaucracy and the military afloat, he pulls the strings of an old-boy network that operates the republic's large publicly owned enterprises. In exchange for political obedience, economists say, Mr. Milosevic allows enterprise directors free rein. Many have used it to enrich themselves by plundering their companies.
State statistics say about 96 percent of the work force is employed, but in fact a great many workers are idle or under-utilized. Protest about this has not gone beyond grumbling, however; most workers remain loyal to the regime because they fear losing their jobs altogether. Housing is a critical problem, and losing a job often means losing an apartment as well. And pensioners fear that if they speak out, the state could interfere with their monthly payments.
Police power. Mr. Milosevic, who has complete control of the police, has clearly used it to infiltrate opposition parties and news organizations, tap telephones and make house calls on opponents. It is taken as fact here that the police also selectively look the other way at the activities of crime bosses loyal to the President.
Since the official economy is not functioning, even normally law-abiding people are being sucked into the illegal economy. This enhances Mr. Milosevic's power by compromising them, making them susceptible to arrest at any time.
Infighting. Mr. Milosevic is a quintessential apparatchik, demanding total loyalty from those who serve him. His "anti-bureaucracy" campaign in the late 1980's solidified his hold on the bureaucracy by raising fears among government workers that they might lose their jobs.
Mr. Milosevic has stifled potential rivals by shuffling proteges from one position to another, then showing them the door. He has evaded a personal political cost for the devastation left by his policies by using disposable proxies.
Last year he created the office of Yugoslavia's Prime Minister and arranged to have it filled with a Serbian-American millionaire, Milan Panic, in an unsuccessful bid to lull the international community into lifting economic sanctions. Mr. Panic later challenged Mr. Milosevic in an election for Serbia's presidency, the real seat of power; Mr. Milosevic's grip on television, the ballot-counting machinery, and nationalist sentiment proved who was the real boss.
Maneuverability. Mr. Milosevic has unflinchingly broken faith and made tactical retreats to maintain his position. When he was rising to power in Communist Yugoslavia, his best friend was a colleague, Ivan Stambolic, and he professed faith in both socialism and the federalism of Yugoslavia. He abandoned Mr. Stambolic in 1987, and later walked away from Communism and the very idea of Yugoslavia.
His next crusade was to bring all Serbs into one state -- a Greater Serbia. He set in motion Serb militias in Croatia and Bosnia, backed by Yugoslav army resources. But last year, he seemed willing to slow even this scheme when he accepted a U.N. peacekeeping plan in Croatia. "Milosevic has a fantastic ability to adjust and to hide his real intentions," said a now-estranged friend who spoke on condition of anonymity.
"This is not a person who keeps his word, but an opportunist who doesn't know the meaning of the word compromise," the former friend said. "This person only understands force. His whole life has been based on yes and no, all or nothing. In politics, for such people, it always comes to nothing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Slobodan Milosevic. (Tom Haley/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); GERMANY (67%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); GERMANY (67%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); TREASON (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); WAR CRIMES (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); RELIGION (63%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (50%); FUNDAMENTALISM (50%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%); 

PERSON: SUDETIC, CHUCK; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); CYRUS ROBERTS VANCE (71%); FRANCOIS MAURICE MARIE MITTERRAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



363 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-21
 
CLINTON DEFENDS STAND ON RUSSIA 
 President Clinton defended himself against critics who contend that his policies toward Russia are too dependent on Boris N. Yeltsin's survival, but he would not say how he would react if the Russian President suspended his Congress or resorted to military force. 1
 
The Russian Congress adjourned after blasting President Yeltsin. 12
 
AUSTRALIAN PREMIER RE-ELECTED
Prime Minister Paul Keating's Labor Party held onto power in Australian parliamentary elections described as the most closely contested in a generation. 3
 
BOSNIAN EVACUATION BY AIR
Bosnia's military forces have begun airlifting critically wounded and sick persons from enclaves besieged by Serbian forces. 10
 
'ETHNIC CLEANSING' TRIAL
A Serbian nationalist fighter testified that he killed and raped dozens of Muslims in Serbian "ethnic cleansing" offensives across Bosnia and Herzegovina last year. 10
 
Serbia's leader will urge a Bosnian commander to attend talks. 10
 
The former kingmaker of Japan's governing party was indicted. 3
 
South Korea placed its troops on alert as a cautionary step. 6
 
The Indian authorities sought suspects in Friday's explosions. 7
 
Haiti arrested a deserter who had U.S. political refugee status. 8
 
Concern was voiced over human rights violations in East Timor. 9
 
Sweden is rapidly scaling back its vast social welfare system. 18
 
Golan Heights settlers fear they may have to leave. 20
 
Nonmilitary police took charge in a Salvadoran province. 20
 
Angola's Government staged air attacks on rebels in the highlands. 21
 
National 24-32
 
MONEY FOR INTELLIGENCE
The Clinton Administration has begun an unexpected campaign to persuade Congress to avoid deep cuts in the nation's $29 billion intelligence budget. 1
 
DAY CARE, AT NIGHT
For many parents, leaving a child in day care can be worrisome. The worries are compounded as more and more children endure disrupted sleep in institutional settings so that parents can hold on to their jobs. 1
 
COLLISION OF TWO LIVES
The lives of a doctor at an abortion clinic and the man accused of killing him reflect much about the bitter divisions over abortion. 24
 
WORRY ABOUT CULT MEMBERS
As the standoff with the Branch Davidians continues in Texas, officials worry that condition are deteriorating inside the compound. 24
 
AUTO EXECUTIVE DELAYS DEAL
A Spanish purchasing executive who resigned from General Motors Corporation to take a top job with Volkswagen is now talking with the German company about delaying the move for as much as year. 26
 
CLINTON SPEAKS ON CLOSINGS
President Clinton met with journalists from states that face jobs losses from proposed base closings, part of a public-relations effort to promote his plan for converting military installations to civilian uses. 30
 
California politicians assess the results in the battle over bases. 30
 
As cities rebound from the recession, counties still feel the pinch. 27
 
Eugene McCarthy, 25 years after his victory over Lyndon Johnson. 28
 
The Interior Department starts an effort to map ecosystems. 29
 
A program allows welfare recipients to get money through A.T.M.'s. 26
 
Congress is already arguing over the logistics of a health-care plan. 30
 
Metro 33-44
 
STORM BUFFETS EAST COAST
A powerful winter storm virtually shut down normal life in the eastern United States and buried the New York region in a foot or more of snow. 1
 
New York City tried to cope. 1
 
The region buckled down. 33
 
The South was pummeled. 36
 
THE TRADE CENTER SUSPECTS
The associations between the men under arrest in the World Trade Center Bombing raise as many questions as they answer. 1
 
INVESTIGATION CONTINUES
The authorities are searching for at least three more suspects in the bombing at the World Trade Center, according to law enforcement officials. 40
 
POLLUTION LAW CHALLENGED
New York State is moving to block a Federal law that allows one utility to sell its right to pollute to another. 35
 
SHARPTON IN STIR
The Rev. Al Sharpton finds himself in jail just as he is trying to get the voting public to see him as a legitimate political leader. 33
 
Obituaries 42
Evan R. Collins; aided SUNY-Albany expansion.
 
Claire Huchet Bishop, an author of children's books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDIA (79%); HAITI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDIA (79%); HAITI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CULTS & SECTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CHILDREN (70%); BUDGETS (70%); CHILD CARE (68%); REFUGEES (67%); CLOSINGS (66%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (61%); ABORTION (61%); RELIGION (54%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



364 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Defends Backing Yeltsin As Elected Chief

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
President Clinton today rejected criticism that his policy toward Russia was too dependent on the survival of Boris N. Yeltsin, but he declined to say how he would react if the Russian President moved to suspend Parliament or resorted to military force.
In his most detailed comments on the beleaguered Russian leader, Mr. Clinton also asserted that the Group of Seven major industrialized nations should play a more aggressive role in helping Mr. Yeltsin. He said countries with a stake in the future of Russia had given him "an inadequate response to date." 
 The President seemed to be sending a message to senior G-7 officials, who are meeting this weekend in Hong Kong to discuss Russia and prepare for their July meeting in Tokyo, which Mr. Clinton is to attend.
 
'People Voted for Him'
 "In terms of whether we're putting too much reliance on Yeltsin personally," Mr. Clinton said, "my answer to that is we will work with what we have to work with, whatever happens. But I think we should support him because he has been elected, after all. There was an election. People voted for him."
In Moscow today, the power struggle between Mr. Yeltsin and the Congress of People's Deputies deepened as the Congress rejected Mr. Yeltsin's final bid for a national referendum on who should govern Russia. [Page 12.]
When asked if he would continue to support Mr. Yeltsin even if he suspended Parliament or sought to abolish the Soviet-era Constitution to regain power, Mr. Clinton answered, "I don't think it would serve any useful purposes for me to try to interpret the Russian Constitution right now, what it does or doesn't mean or what we would or wouldn't respond to."
The President was also asked how he would react if Mr. Yeltsin resorted to military force but declined to address the question.
Mr. Clinton's comments came during an unusual series of interviews at the White House today with local reporters from three states, in which the President sought to promote his military conversion plan in areas that would be affected by the closing of military bases. The President has not held such sessions with regular White House reporters since taking office, but a reporter from The New York Times was permitted to attend the meeting with reporters from Connecticut, where Mr. Clinton was questioned about his relations with Mr. Yeltsin.
In his session with reporters from Florida, Mr. Clinton demanded that the Haitian Government immediately release a military deserter who had been granted political refugee status by the United States, and he pledged to take a more active role in trying to restore democracy in Haiti.
"I'm very upset about what happened in Haiti," he said.
 
Counting on Group of Seven
 Mr. Clinton said he was counting on the Group of Seven nations to act more boldly to support Mr. Yeltsin's economic and democratic reforms.
"I think that if the major countries, the G-7 countries, that are in a position to support those movements would show a more coordinated and aggressive approach to the problems," he said, "it might be possible to build a consensus in Russia for how they would work with all of us. You know, every elected official has his or her political opponents. That's part of the way the system works."
Noting that he is scheduled to meet with Mr. Yeltsin in Vancouver on April 3 and 4, Mr. Clinton said, "I'll do my best I can to be ready on April 4, which is just a few days from now, with my meeting with President Yeltsin."
Though the President did not address the issue directly, his comments appeared to support those of a senior Administration official who said on Friday that Washington would not oppose a move by Mr. Yeltsin to suspend Parliament. But the official said the United States would react strongly if Mr. Yeltsin resorted to military force.
As Mr. Yeltsin's power has eroded -- Russia's Congress has voted to give itself the power to suspend his decrees and has made it easier to remove him from office for unconstitutional behavior -- Mr. Clinton has not wavered in his defense of the Russian leader.
That has prompted the sort of criticism that President Bush received in refusing to drop his support for Mikhail S. Gorbachev as the former Soviet leader was losing his power. But in detailed comments today, Mr. Clinton explained why he thought that it was necessary for the United States and other countries to do more to support Mr. Yeltsin.
 
'In America's Interests'
 "I'm trying to do what I can to muster the support to do more," President Clinton said, "because I think it's very much in America's interests. And he's the person that I think I should work with. He is the elected President of Russia. That is a fact. And I hope he will continue to be the elected President of Russia.
"But the United States has an interest in a Russia that is not hostile to us, that is not a military enemy, and that frankly has a whole lot more economic growth that the Russia that we know does now. And I'm just trying to respond to that."
Mr. Clinton went on to say: "No one knows what's going to happen. But the man is an honest democrat, small 'd.' And he's passionately committed to reform. And I'm going to keep working with him."
While saying that "I don't think you could have ever predicted an easy ride for democracy and for a market economy in a country which had never had a market economy," the President sounded optimistic. Russia, he said, "can still have a bright future as part of a peaceful coalition of nations in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pro-Communist demonstrators rallying against President Boris N. Yeltsin yesterday in Moscow with a sign reading "Boris! Go Home!" and a picture of Stalin. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (93%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (93%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); MILITARY BASES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); REFERENDUMS (73%); MILITARY OFFENSES (72%); REFUGEES (60%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



365 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Citing Caution, South Korea Puts Troops on Alert

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York TimesSpecial to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 13

 BODY:
 In what it termed a cautionary step, South Korea placed its troops on alert today, but officials said they saw no sign of troop movements or unusual activity in North Korea a day after that country's Government said it would pull out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
The alert came as South Korea's military exercises with the United States continued well south of the heavily armed demilitarized zone. North Korea has called the exercises a rehearsal for staging an invasion, and cited them a reason that it became the first nation ever to renounce the treaty. The United States says the annual exercises, which began in 1976, are purely defensive. 
 Leaders of the South Korean Government of President Kim Young Sam, who took office two weeks ago, spent most of the day in meetings deciding how to respond to North Korea's surprise action. But so far Seoul has said little, other than to say that the action "heightens the suspicion" that North Korea is developing nuclear arms. Along with the United States and Japan, South Korea has called on North Korea to retract its decision before it becomes effective in 90 days.
"There are a lot of discussions about what to do next, but the border is very quiet," Ryu Myung Hwan, the spokesman for the South Korean Foreign Ministry, said this afternoon.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said on Friday that he believed North Korea's withdrawal from the treaty and its refusal to allow inspection of two suspected nuclear sites would likely be taken up by the United Nations Security Council unless the hard-line Communist Government of President Kim Il Sung reversed its course. Today in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, officials repeated their warnings to the United States and other nations not to press for economic sanctions or other pressure in response to North Korea's decision, according to reports on the official state news service monitored in Tokyo.
 
'Semi-War Footing' in North
 "We are fully prepared to take appropriate countermeasures," Kang Sok Jue, North Korea's Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, was quoted as saying in Pyongyang. He said that the military could "face any offensive and pressure by the enemies."
So far, North Korea has said nothing to suggest that it is preparing any kind of offensive military movement. But earlier in the week, in response to the beginning of the American-South Korean exercises, the Pyongyang Government said it was going on a "semi-war footing" to guard against any attack launched during the exercises.
There are also indications that North Korea, which allows virtually no news from the outside world to enter the country, is being particularly careful that its own people hear only a Government-approved version of the reasons it pulled out of the Nonproliferation Treaty. Japan's official broadcaster, NHK, said today that its Korean-language radio broadcasts into North Korea were being scrambled for the first time in recent memory.
Military alerts for South Korea's 650,000 troops are relatively common. A low-level alert is routine during the exercises, which are an annual source of contention between North and South Korea. Higher-level alerts, like the one issued today, have been declared after border incidents and during special events, like the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.
But the South Korean press seems less concerned about any imminent conflict than it does about the start of a nuclear arms race on the Korean peninsula. South Korea has said it has no nuclear arms of its own -- the United States stopped a project to develop them in the late 1970's -- and American nuclear weapons were withdrawn from South Korea in late 1991. But there is widespread speculation that if North Korea announces it possesses a nuclear bomb, Seoul will feel compelled to match the capability.
"We are afraid that the North's game will start a chain reaction of nuclear armament," the Hankook Ilbo, a major daily, said in an editorial today. "We warn that this will only bring about an early fall of the North's political system."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



366 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Official to Ask Aid at Economic Talks

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 13

 BODY:
A Russian Deputy Prime Minister arrived here today to ask officials of leading industrial nations for economic help for his country and political support for President Boris N. Yeltsin.
The Russian official, Boris G. Fyodorov, was invited to confer with top officials from the Group of Seven who are planning the summit meeting of those nations' leaders to be held in Tokyo in July. The officials from the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan are expected to issue a statement showing support for Russia's transition to democracy and a market economy. 
 They may also announce an agreement to hold a minister-level meeting on aid to Russia before the July conference. President Clinton suggested during talks this week with President Francois Mitterrand of France that the Group of Seven consider an emergency meeting prior to the Tokyo summit to discuss the growing crisis in Russia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (87%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); 

PERSON: FYODOROV, BORIS G (MIN) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



367 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Pledging Florida More Help, Clinton Offers Hope on Base

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Seeking to head off an outcry from South Florida over proposed closings of military bases, President Clinton said today that he would intensify efforts to aid communities that were devastated by Hurricane Andrew, including keeping the Homestead Air Force Base operating on a reduced scale.
But he was less hopeful for Connecticut, saying for the first time that it was an "open question" whether he could ultimately support construction of another Seawolf attack submarine. He had promised to support the program in last year's campaign. 
 Now, Mr. Clinton said, the future of the Seawolf would be decided in the Administration's budget negotiations with Congress. "I haven't changed my position on it," he said. "But I cannot tell you it's a lock-cinch deal because of what's happened -- because this is sort of a wild card for us. And because I'm obviously involved with the Congress now in trying to work through this."
The President, who has met infrequently with reporters since taking office, today summoned groups of journalists from South Florida, California and Connecticut to the White House. Those states face the loss of thousands of jobs from the proposed base closings announced by the Pentagon on Friday.
 
Plea for Support
 The meetings were part of an intense public relations effort by Mr. Clinton for his plan to convert military installations to civilian uses while reassuring the public that he would create jobs to cushion the losses. That was also the message today in the President's weekly radio address, when he called on Americans to support the spending cuts in his economic package.
"In the days ahead," Mr. Clinton said, "you will hear a great debate in Congress about this plan. Some will say, 'Don't cut anything.' Some will say, 'Don't invest in anything.' But what many of them are really saying is, 'Don't change anything,' because failing to invest and failing to reduce the deficit means failing to change the status quo."
Mr. Clinton told the reporters from South Florida that he would release up to $2 billion in Federal money for the long-term rebuilding of the Dade County area, which was hit hard by the hurricane last August.
"Essential services were wiped out," the President said, "and although six months later, basic services have been restored, the progress toward redevelopment has been minimal."
 
New Uses for Homestead
 Included in Mr. Clinton's plan is money to repair the runway and control tower at the Homestead base, even though it is one of the bases scheduled to close. Mr. Clinton had made a campaign promise to rebuild the base, and said it could be used by reserve forces, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Coast Guard and perhaps other uses.
As for Connecticut, Mr. Clinton had pledged during the campaign to continue the Seawolf, which is built in Groton, Conn., after President George Bush had canceled contracts for the attack submarine. Mr. Clinton's pledge was criticized by his opponent, former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, who said that the ship had outlived its usefulness because of the diminished threat from Russia. He had accused Mr. Clinton of backing the Seawolf to gain support in Connecticut.
But Mr. Clinton today denied having political motives. "It didn't have much to do with the Connecticut primary," he said. "I didn't even know if I would be politically alive in November and December when were were trying to evaluate these decisions."
Mr. Clinton also denied to the California reporters that politics played any role in the Pentagon's decision to keep two California military installations off the list of proposed closings.
Mr. Clinton also denied to the California reporters that politics played any role in the Pentagon's decision to keep two California military installations off the list of proposed closings.
Mr. Clinton said that the Defense Secretary, Les Aspin, deleted McClellan Air Force Base, near Sacramento, and the Monterey Presidio, from the original list not to please Democratic lawmakers from the districts but "because he thought the aggregate economic impact was still too great -- the Bay area still takes a great hit."
Mr. Clinton repeatedly emphasized that final decisions about which bases to close had not been made. "I'm open to any arguments anybody wants to make," Mr. Clinton said. "And I think the base commission will be, too."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ARMED FORCES (91%); CLOSINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); JOURNALISM (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); WRITERS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



368 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: As 1968 Joins the Centuries, McCarthy Goes On

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
A quarter of a century has slipped by since Eugene J. McCarthy turned the Vietnam issue on President Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, forcing him from the race.
But 25 years and a day later, the impact of that upset in the New England snow lingers in the Democratic Party and in the American political system generally. 
 And Clean Gene lingers too, writing, making speeches and every four years returning to New Hampshire for another quirky run for the Presidency.
"Twenty-fifth anniversary," mused the former Minnesota Senator, who turns 77 on March 29 and is, though now a little whiter in the mane, unmistakably the same man striding across the old campaign poster that proclaims, "He stood up alone, and something happened."
 
Lot to Complain About
 "Somebody said something about holding an anniversary celebration, but I told them I'd rather hold a rally," he said by telephone on Friday from California, where he was on a speaking tour.
Hold a rally? On what issue?
"Oh, there's no shortage of things to complain about," he replied. "We could start with the deficit or the trade balance or finding jobs for people. We didn't get it all done in 1968, not by a long shot."
But he accomplished plenty back then.
He pulled together the antiwar movement within the Democratic Party, and when primary day, March 12, 1968, was over, he had five times as many New Hampshire delegates as the President. He eventually lost the nomination to Hubert H. Humphrey, his fellow Minnesotan, who was then beaten by Richard M. Nixon, but the antiwar faction hung together fairly well in future elections, though it switched its attention to issues like the environment. And today, some former McCarthyites are showing up in the Clinton Administration.
 
A Lasting Effect
 Among them is Eli Segal. He was Gov. Bill Clinton's top aide and is now the head of the Clinton Administration's new Office of National Service. Shortly after last fall's Presidential election, Mr. Segal held a dinner party in Little Rock, Ark., for a dozen or so old McCarthy campaign workers who had worked to elect Mr. Clinton, people like James Johnson, the chairman of the Federal National Mortgage Association, and Susan Thomases, a New York lawyer, and Taylor Branch, the author.
But perhaps the most important effect of the 1968 McCarthy insurgency was the reform movement the campaign sparked in the Democratic Party, a movement that cracked open the party's Presidential nominating process and permitted a broader spectrum of people to have a genuine say.
"Gene McCarthy's greatest accomplishment was to energize a whole new generation of people, particularly young people, and get them involved in politics," said Anne Wexler, a Washington consultant who has long been active in Democratic Party affairs, including the 1968 McCarthy campaign.
As for Mr. McCarthy, he now makes his home in Virginia -- "Mother of Presidents," he notes -- and spends much of his time writing poetry, a carry-over from his days as a college professor before he went into politics. He cranks out books for children and for politicians, the latest a work on economics titled "Colony of the World." He travels the country making speeches. He continues to run for President, with five tries so far. But his first run is still his best. And he continues to be one of the wriest voices on the American political scene.
"Didn't do so well in New Hampshire in '92 -- just 211 votes," he said. "But down in the deep backwaters of Louisiana they apparently thought I was old Joe (Get the Commies) McCarthy, and I did pretty good there. Actually, I wanted to spend the campaign talking about the deficit and the trade balance and the job situation. We've really got to do something, get our priorities reordered. But most of the folks I'd run into just wanted to talk about 1968."
Well, what about 1968, looking back at it over a quarter of a century?
 
As Always, the Unexpected
 "Oh, I don't know," he replied. "I'd rather not talk about 'What did you do in the war, daddy?' I write poetry now. You can be a former Presidential candidate. You can't be a former poet."
Pressed for the assessment, he delivered, as he has always delivered, the totally unexpected.
"O.K.," he said, "what I really think is that the war might have ended sooner if I hadn't done so well in New Hampshire. If I'd just stung Lyndon real good, the party might have figured: 'Well, we really do have a serious problem with this war, so we'd better cut our losses, compromise and get out of it as fast as we can.' But because I beat him, beat him bad, they decided to fight me head on. And I'm afraid that caused things to drag out."
How's the new President doing?
"Too early to say," he replied. "But sometimes I worry that he's just more of the same old stuff that we've been seeing for so long. To be a successful President, you have to break free of the past."
Does he still have the Presidential bug?
There was a pause at the other end of the line. Then came a transcontinental chuckle.
"We McCarthys tend to live a long time," he said. "My grandfather made it to 98. That being the case, I've still got time for -- let's see -- for five more tries."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eugene J. McCarthy campaigning for the 1968 primary amid students and reporters in Manchester, N.H. (Charles Harbutt/Actuality); Eugene J. McCarthy (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (63%); 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WRITERS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (63%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; MCCARTHY, EUGENE J BILL CLINTON (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



369 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Spared 2 Base Closings, Californians Lobby On

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., March 13

 BODY:
California's elected leaders claimed a partial victory this weekend in their effort to save military bases in the state and began a fierce second-round lobbying battle to spare at least one other base here from closing.
Two California bases were granted a reprieve on Friday by Defense Secretary Les Aspin, at least for the time being: the huge McClellan Air Force Base in Sacramento and the Presidio of Monterey, home to the Army's esteemed language school. Mr. Aspin has also recommended trimming, but not closing, March Air Force Base in Riverside County. 
 Still, many other installations in the economically hard-hit state are on Mr. Aspin's list for closing. Four are major bases in the San Francisco Bay area: the Alameda Naval Air Station, the Oakland Naval Supply Center, the Treasure Island Naval Station and the Mare Island Naval Shipyard. The bases employ about 40,000 people altogether.
 
Fazio a Big Winner
 With that scorecard in hand, the biggest winner among California's politicians seemed to be Representative Vic Fazio of the Sacramento area, the powerful chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. McClellan Air Force Base employs 16,183 people, more than 12,000 of them civilians. The Sacramento Bee celebrated the base's reprieve with a six-column headline, "McCLELLAN'S OFF!"
Mr. Fazio was obviously delighted that McClellan had "a new lease on life." He said he was sure that the base had been spared because of the "cumulative economic effect" of earlier base closings in the state's capital, which had already lost an Air Force base and an Army depot in two earlier rounds of military cutbacks. Unemployment in the Sacramento area is 8.3 percent, higher than either the Oakland or San Francisco areas.
But economic factors alone may not have spared McClellan: Mr. Fazio's district, especially after reapportionment, is not a sure thing for Democrats. And losses there, either in Congressional midterm elections or in 1996, would be costly to the party.
 
Biggest Loser
 The biggest loser was Representative Ronald V. Dellums of Oakland, the new chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and a longtime advocate of drastically reduced military spending. All four bases in Mr. Dellums district are designated to be closed, primary among them the Alameda Naval Air Station, which has 16,845 workers and will be the focus of renewed lobbying by the state delegation in Washington.
One local leader, Don Perata, a member of the Alameda County Board of Supervisors, said Defense Department officials had underestimated how hard Mr. Dellums would fight to preserve bases in his district because despite his long record of trying to cut military spending. "Why would you disrespect the chair?" Mr. Perata asked. "I can only guess they thought he'd allow the ball to pass without swinging at it."
But the Democratic Representative swung quick and hard. Clearly stunned by the list announced by Mr. Aspin, his predecessor as committee chairman, Mr. Dellums called the Defense Department's process of choosing bases "late-night horse trading" and said he was being "punished for his political views."
Such statements were reminiscent of his days as a firebrand outsider on Capitol Hill. But later Mr. Dellums struck a more statesmanlike pose, declining further interviews and resorting to formal statements.
 
He's Still the Chairman
 "I assume that the commission will thoroughly review and consider their recommendations in the light of the established criteria for closure and realignment," Mr. Dellums said, referring to the next step in the base-closing process. A Presidential panel has until July 1 to review the list proposed by Mr. Aspin. Its decisions will then go to President Clinton and Congress.
Mr. Dellums has argued that eliminating the Alameda Naval Air Station and the three other bases in his district was strategically unsound because no other installations on the West Coast have berthing for three nuclear carriers or adequate housing and hospitals.
Now, said Mr. Dellums's general counsel, H. Lee Halterman, the Representative may use his position as Armed Services chairman to deny the Navy authorization to upgrade its bases in San Diego or Washington State, the alternatives to Alameda.
California's senior Senator, Dianne Feinstein, noted that Mr. Dellums's power to authorize such spending means that he could be "very effective" in lobbying the Presidential commission. "He has a real trump card to play if he chooses to do so," Ms. Feinstein said.
 
Call for More Federal Help
 Senator Feinstein also said she would introduce legislation to set aside a portion of the $20 billion President Clinton plans to spend on military conversion for California.
Mr. Dellums also called for additional Federal help in making the transition from military to civilian use of the bases here. "The President's $20 billion plan for economic conversion needs to be enhanced more fully," he said.
Until Friday, the California delegation had shown uncommon unity in opposing further base closings in this hard-pressed state, where unemployment is now 9.8 percent, nearly three points higher than the national average. They pointed to two earlier rounds of military cutbacks, when the state lost 17 bases and an estimated 67,000 civilian and military jobs.
But once the list was issued, the ideological differences within the delegation became more apparent.
Senator Feinstein, for instance, was asked about Mr. Dellums's assertion that he had been singled out because of past political positions. She noted that Mr. Dellums' opposition to a plan, long since abandoned, to base the battleship Missouri in San Francisco Harbor certainly "didn't help" his cause.
Then, she boasted that she had been a cheerleader for the Missouri during her tenure as Mayor of San Francisco. "You can be sure this Senator isn't anti-military," she said. "I'm a big military booster. Always have been."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eddie Peralta, top, a Naval retiree, outside McClellan Air Force Base on Friday in Sacramento, Calif., which was not on the Pentagon's closure list. Above, Petty Officer Kirk Armstrong walking on Thursday next to the U.S.S. Wichita at the Treasure Island Naval Station in San Francisco, a base that is on the list to close. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SACRAMENTO BEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ARMED FORCES (92%); CLOSINGS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMIES (90%); NAVIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); REDISTRICTING (70%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE VIC FAZIO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



370 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Babbitt to Map Ecosystems Under New Policy to Save Them

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt has taken the first steps in a major policy shift intended to head off conflict over the Endangered Species Act by focusing on the preventive, long-term care of entire ecosystems.
Two of the nation's best-known conservation biologists, Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy of the Smithsonian Institution and Dr. Peter H. Raven of the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis, have been recruited to help set up a national biological survey to map the country's ecosystems and biological diversity, much as the United States Geological Survey maps its geology and geography. 
 The mapping will be undertaken as part of a reorganization of the Interior Department's biological research, which is now divided among several agencies. Mr. Babbitt is asking Clinton Administration budget officials and Congress to approve the transfer of $12 million from elsewhere in the Interior budget to bolster the consolidation effort in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Interior officials said they expected the request to be approved.
A biological survey is critical to any effort to practice preventive medicine on ecosystems, Mr. Babbitt said in an interview Thursday. With an accurate map of the country's biological diversity, he said, "we can spot the problems coming while there's still flexibility and time to deal with them," before they result in a collision of economic and environmental interests.
Without such information, the Secretary said, "you don't have a chance."
 
'A Historical Moment'
 Dr. Lovejoy is to be detached from the Smithsonian for four months beginning about April 1 to advise in planning the survey, Mr. Babbitt said.
Constance Newman, Under Secretary of the Smithsonian, said that "we're very excited" about the institution's role in the survey and that the Smithsonian had "every intention of continuing" its involvement after Dr. Lovejoy's tenure.
Dr. Raven will head a National Academy of Sciences committee that will offer advice on organizing the survey, Mr. Babbitt said. Its report is to be issued in September.
"This is truly a historical moment," Dr. Raven said. "It's similar to when the U.S. Geological Survey was initiated over a century ago."
The geological survey, now one of the nation's major research organizations with a far-flung network of nearly 9,000 employees, grew out of a similar collaboration among the Interior Department, the Smithsonian and the National Academy of Sciences in 1879. Mr. Babbitt cited this "echoing of history" with enthusiasm, but at its start the biological survey will be much more modest than the present-day geological survey. Like the geological survey, the biological survey will be a continuing one.
 
Evolving Picture of U.S.
 Mr. Babbitt said that the nucleus of the biological survey would be the existing research establishment of the Fish and Wildlife Service, an Interior Department agency, and that other department research efforts on biological diversity would be consolidated with it. The survey will also seek the cooperation of state agencies and Federal ones outside the Interior Department, like the Forest Service.
The survey's goal, Mr. Babbitt said, is to produce a constantly evolving, computerized picture of the nation's biological diversity that "adjusts to changes in land use, to ecological changes, and which must with the passage of time become more sophisticated" and more detailed as knowledge of species and ecosystems grows.
He said compiling that picture was the only way to know where the ecosystems of maximum biological diversity were, which were the most fragile and which had the best regenerative powers. In this way, Mr. Babbitt said, it may be possible to diagnose problems earlier and take action well before any plant or animal species becomes endangered.
Once a species is declared endangered under the Endangered Species Act, its habitat is designated as critical, and after that, the Secretary said, "you can't destroy one square inch of it without an endless, protracted sort of legal process."
State and local governments and private conservation groups across the country are already devising ecosystem protection plans to avoid that kind of conflict.
 
First Step in California
 Mr. Babbitt said he believed that the most interesting plan was one in Southern California in which state and local governments and private landowners joined to protect more than 200,000 acres of mostly dry shrub that biologists call the coastal sage scrub ecosystem. Through land acquisition, zoning and local land-use planning, the governments intend to protect a variety of fragile species that are not yet endangered.
Because the California plan offers assurance that the overall ecosystem will be protected, it is less important to protect every little piece of property. As a result, Mr. Babbitt said, the Fish and Wildlife Service was recently able to issue an opinion allowing developers to construct a freeway, thereby avoiding "what would have been a big crisis."
The existence of the ecosystem plan, the Secretary said, means "we can kind of pull back and watch how the process unfolds and not be as heavy-handed about intervention." And that, he added, is why landowners like it.
In addition, if all the known plant and animal species are included in an ecosystem management plan or recovery plan, Mr. Babbitt said, landowners who cooperate in the plan are spared the possibility of having to confront one future endangered species crisis after another.
Such crises are "always fought out on a case-by-case basis in a highly legalistic way," Dr. Raven said, "and the result is that we're not necessarily making the best decisions."
One reason for that, he said, is that the United States has never had a comprehensive delineation of its plants, animals, fungi and microorganisms. With such a survey and the ecosystem approach it makes possible, "we can make decisions that will really serve our interests not only now but in the future," Dr. Raven said.
"Otherwise," he said, "we run the risk of picking ecosystems apart piece by piece, never getting the results we want."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, who is trying to avoid conflict over the Endangered Species Act. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (58%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (58%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (58%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (58%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); WILDLIFE (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K; BABBITT, BRUCE (SEC) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



371 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Pedigreed Pawnshop Deals Discreetly With a Big Burglary

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
The Provident Loan Society is where Jim Thorpe pawned his Olympic medals in 1912 and where the newspaper heiress Evalyn Walsh McLean gave the Star of the East diamond as security for $50,000 in fast cash 20 years later. A down-and-out Theodore Dreiser once pawned a watch there for $25, an amount he used to turn his life around before writing "An American Tragedy."
The institution has existed for more than 99 years, making many loans for under a dollar and others for tens of thousands. Inside its mahogany-paneled headquarters, clerks still fill out tickets with wooden pencils. 
 But in recent weeks the doors have been closed and the managers have been sifting through debris and soot, debating the wisdom of sending out letters to notify more than 4,700 pledgors that they cannot redeem their loans because their valuables are missing. To the Provident, the collateral the valuables represented is insured, except for a $50,000 deductible.
 
A Team of Professionals
 In the wee hours of Saturday, Feb. 6, the society's principal office at 346 Park Avenue South was burglarized by a team of what police officials are convinced were highly organized professionals. This was the second spectacular looting of the venerable society. On Feb. 17, 1969, two men entered the Provident's Jamaica, Queens, branch and held up the manager and two other office employees at gunpoint. More than 3,000 pieces of diamond and other precious jewelry, whose retail value was estimated between $4 million and $6 million, were taken. Approximately 90 percent was later recovered.
In the latest theft, the burglars found collateral for $1.9 million in loans inside a vault.
Hundreds, even thousands of wedding rings were surely lost. Perhaps a diamond brooch "borrowed" from a grandmother's jewelry box to buy a child's birthday present can now never be surreptitiously returned. Possibilities are as endless as human need.
"Some of our customers are very understanding," said James P. Keville, executive vice president of the nonprofit institution. "However, there are some who aren't so understanding."
 
Pawned Ring After Divorce
 A divorced woman, who had pawned her engagement ring there, said she cared little about losing it. Indeed, she said, she first pawned the ring right after her divorce, using the proceeds for a celebration party.
But she was happy that the society didn't lose everything. "If they'd have gotten the silver I hocked at the same time I'd be madder than hell," she said.
The appeal of the society, she said, is partly its august appearance. "It's very civilized," she said. "You see the most respectable sort of people coming in."
But lower interest rates than commercial pawnshops and almost instantaneous loan approval are the strongest attractions. "How can I put this?" she said. "I'm an improvident person in the upper middle class who every so often finds herself impoverished."
 
Founded by Old Families
 The Provident was founded and nurtured by the great old New York families, the Schiffs, Rockefellers and Vanderbilts, among others. Its purpose was delicately called "remedial lending," the mission being to aid those termed "the worthy poor." Worthiness has been variously defined, though the average loan amount is $400.
Mr. Keville greeted a visitor in the society's boardroom, where portraits of the distinguished trustees preside. There was no fire in the marble fireplace. The plush carpet was deep green.
A month after the break-in, the air still carried an acrid odor caused, the police say, by tools the burglars used to penetrate walls containing steel more than two inches thick. These "hot rods" reach temperatures of 10,000 degrees, roughly the temperature of the sun's surface, and require elaborate oxygen tanks to operate.
 
Melting Down the Gold
 Detective Joe Keenan said the burglars, who he thinks numbered between three and five, were not selling the jewelry piece by piece but had probably pried out the diamonds and melted down the gold to sell it in bulk.
Mr. Keville said the delay in notifying customers was a result first of having to seal the building because of asbestos released when the burglars dug through walls. Then too, there was the thorny problem of notifying those whom the Provident calls pledgors. The society strives to avoid correspondence, but finally decided there was no choice.
The society's beginnings go back to March 1892, when Alfred Bishop Mason wrote an article in "Charities Review" advocating that a group of men to which he belonged unite to "lend money at low rates on good security."
 
Modeled on European Shops
 The result was that Mr. Mason and other members of the Charity Organization Society each threw in $35,000 to start the Provident. They modeled the new insitution on the municipal pawnshops in Europe, some of which were more than 500 years old.
On April 13, 1894, the Governor signed a law approving a charter for the new organization, overcoming heated opposition from private pawnshops resentful of the society's tax-exempt status.
Immediately, demand exceeded expectations. Customers borrowed $6,761.50 in the first week of business, though only $5,000 was supposed to be lent in any one week.
The Provident offers a better rate than commercial pawnshops, an annualized rate of 26 percent compared with 36 percent.
Precious few of today's pledgors have wealth remotely near that of Mrs. McLean, who owned The Washington Star in 1932 when she was approached by a man claiming to be the kidnapper of Charles Lindbergh's son.
Mrs. McLean was asked to come up with $50,000 to save the child. She immediately dispatched an employee to the Provident with what she considered adequate collateral for a $50,000 loan. He carried the Hope Diamond in his pocket.
The society rejected the world's most famous gem. "The people here thought that if it ever had to go to sale, it would be hard for a single bidder to come up with what it is worth," Mr. Keville said.
Mrs. McLean's representative then reached into his other pocket, and pulled out a diamond named Star of the East, which was more than three times larger. The Provident accepted that on the grounds it could be cut up and sold if necessary.
The heiress lost the $50,000 to a swindler who turned out to have no connection with the kidnappers. But she scraped together enough cash to redeem her 140-carat diamond.
Indeed, just 7 percent of the society's collateral goes up for sale, a figure that indicates its worth even to people stretching to make ends meet.
"There are a lot of people whose lives are tied up in their jewelry," Mr. Keville observed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Some of our customers are very understanding," said James P. Keville, executive vice president of the nonprofit institution. "However, there are some who aren't so understanding." (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROVIDENT LOAN SOCIETY

ORGANIZATION: PROVIDENT LOAN SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; PAWNBROKING ROBBERY (90%); BURGLARY (90%); FINE JEWELRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (67%); POLICE FORCES (66%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



372 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Try Convincing Counties the Recession Has Ended

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW YORK, NY

 BODY:
Even as states and cities are breaking free of the recession, buoyed by rising revenues from sales and income taxes, officials in the nation's counties say they are facing one of the worst years since the recession began.
County governments -- which provide everything from roads and health care to police and fire protection -- are suffering because they rely on property taxes for 75 percent of their own revenues. Cities, by contrast, rely on property taxes for 40 percent of their revenue. Real estate taxes, which are based on real estate values, fell sharply in the recession and will recover slowly because of legal and practical constraints. 
 Most counties are raising tax rates to try to offset the decline, but most are also sharply reducing services to balance their budgets. Counties in the worst fiscal shape are those with legal restraints on tax increases.
Last year was the worst of the recession for county budgets, and this year looks just as bad.
"Things are going to get worse before they get better," said Ralph Tabor, legislative director of the National Association of Counties. "No matter how strongly the economy comes back, counties will still be hurting for several years because residential construction in the suburbs has pretty much stopped and commercial vacancy rates are high everywhere."
 
Cuts in Services
 The group has just completed a survey of the nation's 66 largest counties, where one-third of Americans live. It found that more than 70 percent of the counties had reduced services and raised property taxes last year, and just as many said they planned to take these same measures again this year.
Counties vary in function from state to state, but as their fiscal problems deepen, the 98 percent of Americans who receive county services are likely to feel the pinch as counties reduce financing to schools, libraries, hospitals, highways, courts, prosecutors, public defenders and police and fire departments. Only Connecticut and Rhode Island do not have county governments; counties in these states are little more than lines on a map.
Many large, urban counties include municipalities in their jurisdiction, and some, like San Francisco and New York, have consolidated city-county governments.
 
Revenues Falling
 New York, as a combination of city and county governments, is second only to Los Angeles County in population and second to none in spending. New York City has enormous problems with its property tax revenues, but its problems are indicative of those faced in most urban counties.
Since 1990 the city's property values have declined 16 percent, to $303 billion from $352 billion, according to city finance officials. Last year alone there was a $21 billion decline in the market value of real estate, and property owners, primarily owners of office buildings, have already received $2 billion in reduced assessments. That reduction translates into a $350 million decline in real estate revenue for the fiscal year 1994, which begins July 1. Property tax revenues are projected to be about $8 billion, or half of the city's locally generated income.
 
Squeeze in Colorado
 In Colorado, 23 of the state's 63 counties faced declines in their overall property assessments, but they cannot raise property tax rates to make up for the shortfall, at least for now. A new state law, approved by voters last year, requires a popular vote on any proposed tax increase by any level of government. "I don't know how they are going to keep their schools going," said Karen K. Reinertson, the state budget director.
California's counties are also hard hit by declining property values and legal restrictions on increasing property taxes. Property values in the state have fallen by tens of billions of dollars during the recession, and property owners have received billions of dollars in property tax relief, state officials say. Precise numbers are unavailable. But no matter how quickly the real estate market rebounds, state law generally limits increases in assessments to 2 percent a year. The law, which voters enacted as Proposition 13 on the 1978 state ballot, permits greater increases in assessments under some conditions, including the sale of a property.
 
Supporting a Population Boom
 Counties with the most problems are often ones that grew rapidly in the 1980's and now lack money to provide services for their growing populations.
San Diego County, Calif., which saw its population increase to 2.5 million from 1.6 million during the decade, has depended on its annual 12 percent increase in real estate tax assessments to keep expanding services. But the growth in those assessments, and the tax revenue along with it, shrank to 8.2 percent in 1991 and 4.6 percent last year.
"The boom ended in 1990, and it was just like hitting a brick wall," said Manuel A. Lopez, director of financial management for the county.
The county has coped with its fiscal crisis by reducing health and social services and by not opening a new jail for 1,200 prisoners that was completed in 1990.
 
A Time of 'Ugly Decisions'
 In Fairfax County, Va., facing a $200 million deficit in last year's $1.3 billion general fund budget, officials raised property taxes by about 5 percent and hoped to raise taxes on restaurant meals. But voters rejected the meal tax in a ballot measure.
"So we had to cut the heck out of education and human services," said Tom Davis, chairman of the County Board of Supervisors. "We made the ugly decisions last year, so we're in better shape this coming fiscal year."
Prince Georges County, Md., reduced services across the board, eliminated 1,200 of 5,500 jobs and stripped costly provisions for things like wage increases, holiday pay and cost of living adjustments for police officers, firefighters and other employees.
"These are unusual times," said Marita B. Brown, director of the county's Office of Management and Budget. "And taxpayers are starting to understand that they will pay more and get less."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Tough Year for Counties," partial list for 1992 survey of 66 large counties by the National Association of Counties, showing some actions taken that lowered revenues, some actions that created money troubles and some actions that may be taken this year to balance the budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES RECESSION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); COUNTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); SUBURBS (69%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



373 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: THE TWIN TOWERS;
For Construction Workers, Opportunities From Tragedy

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
After hours of hauling rubble out of the damaged basement of the World Trade Center, Charles Janus collapsed into a chair and lit a cigarette. His face was black with soot and when he lifted his cup of coffee, pain spread through his 50-year-old body.
But Mr. Janus was happy, for the disaster at the Trade Center has turned his life around. "You have to be out of work for months to appreciate going back," he said. A phone call from the Turner Construction Company, which is handling some of the repairs at the complex, brought his first job since last summer. 
 The explosion that killed five people and injured more than 1,000 caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage and business losses. But for Mr. Janus and others, it is creating opportunities and hope: for at least the next month or so, construction and maintenance companies will employ thousands of people for the repairs and cleanup.
 
Calling In Workers
 Turner's New York office has already taken on more than 30 new workers, calling in men like Mr. Janus who had spent much of the last few months fighting the frustration that seems as much a part of the depressed construction industry these days as hard hats and power drills.
Like Turner, other construction companies are hiring hundreds of extra people to rebuild the garage under the World Trade Center and the foundation under the New York Vista Hotel. Many of the jobs pay about $20-25 an hour.
And the three major maintenance companies at the complex say they are taking on more than 2,300 new workers, who will earn $13-14 an hour cleaning soot off floors, draperies and walls with special dry sponges.
"There is an enormous amount of economic activity associated with a project of this magnitude," said Anthony E. Shorris, deputy executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the Trade Center.
 
Work for Several Weeks
 "It's an irony of a disaster like this," he said. "Something terrible happens, but it has a silver lining. This is the sole good news out of this tragedy."
The jobs that have sprung from the disaster will probably not last more than three or four weeks. Most pay well because they are union spots, but few of those hired will get benefits like health insurance because their jobs will not last more than a month.
The other day, executives from maintenance businesses crowded around tables in the concourse level of the Trade Center, instructing cleaning crews and poring over lists to insure that they had enough workers. Richard R. Heade, a manager at Ogden Allied Services, said his company normally employs 400 people at the complex, but would soon add another 1,600.
 
Swamped With Applications
 Ogden and other companies said they had been swamped with job applications. Claribel Aguilar, a manager for Nelson Maintenance Services, said more than 50 people had walked up to her in the concourse in recent days and asked for work.
Some of them might have been former employees of the Windows on the World restaurant, on the 107th floor of 1 World Trade Center, or the Vista, which together have temporarily laid off about 900 workers because of the explosion. The Port Authority says it is using a referral service to help them find other jobs.
Some of the construction workers now at the Trade Center said they felt a little uneasy that they were finally off the unemployment rolls because of an event in which so many people had suffered. "It's unfortunate that you get work through a disaster like this, but you got to do what you got to do," said Robert Lamantia, 24, of Staten Island.
 
'Times Are Tough'
 Mr. Lamantia, who specializes in demolition and asbestos removal, said he was watching television at home on March 4 -- his birthday -- when Turner Construction called him. "It was a good birthday present," he said. "Times are tough out there. I went through the classifieds, I called my union. But there's no work anywhere."
Mr. Janus, a laborer who lives in Vernon, N.J., said he was starting his second week on extended unemployment benefits when he went back to work. The call from Turner, he said, came just in time.
"For the last couple of months, you eat and you sleep, so you're well rested, but you argue a lot," he said. "You're worried that you can't pay the rent, that you can't pay your kid's tuition, that you can't pay your taxes. Now you know you're getting a salary."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (71%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TURNER CONSTRUCTION CO (71%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; EXPLOSIONS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CONSTRUCTION (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



374 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Suit Attacks Swap Plan On Pollution

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the New York State Legislature are moving to block a Federal law that allows one utility to sell its right to pollute to another. If they succeed, environmentalists around the country could follow suit and a system that economists have hailed as a cheap way to clean the environment could be stopped before it gets started.
The Cuomo administration filed suit on Friday to stop the Long Island Lighting Company from selling a Midwestern company the right to emit pollutants that might be blown into upstate New York. The Assembly may act as early as tomorrow on a law that would do the same. 
 The question of selling pollution allowances divides environmentalists and also appears to pit the interests of electricity customers on Long Island against the health of lakes and forests in the Adirondack Mountains. It also sets the stage for an argument between Albany and Washington over which will rule on national environmental issues.
 
Trying to Reduce Acid Rain
 The basis for the conflict is a provision of the Clean Air Act of 1990, which orders utilities nationwide to reduce their emissions of sulfur dioxide, a byproduct of fuel burning that forms acid rain. Trying to reduce the cost of complying with the law, the electric companies and some environmentalists persuaded Congress to adopt an "emissions trading" provision. It is supposed to work like this:
Two utilities each have to reduce their emissions by 100,000 tons. One finds a cheap source of low-sulfur coal to substitute for its current high-sulfur coal and finds it can cut emissions at a cost of $200 a ton, but the other decides it must install a scrubber, at a cost of $400 a ton.
Instead, the first company cuts out 200,000 tons, twice what it has to, and sells allowances to emit 100,000 to the second company for $300 a ton. The first company makes a profit of $100 a ton, the second saves $100 a ton, and the cost to the national economy is reduced.
Lilco finds itself in the position of the first company. Because of rules adopted by New York State in 1984, it already exceeds the new Federal standards and is generating allowances of 40,000 to 50,000 tons a year. Deals announced so far have put the price between $250 and $400 a ton, so the allowances are worth $10 million to $20 million annually. The company says it would use the money to cut electric rates, which are the highest in the mainland United States.
Earlier this year, Lilco announced it had sold a Midwestern company an option to buy allowances. It has not yet said who the buyer was, or disclose the volume or price of the deal. But environmentalists fear the buyer is in the Ohio Valley, upwind of the Adirondacks.
So on Friday, Attorney General Robert Abrams and Environmental Conservation Commissioner Thomas C. Jorling filed suit against the Environmental Protection Administration in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
Joan Leary Matthews, the assistant attorney general in charge of the suit, said, "The Clean Air Act is an environmental statute, recognizing the problem of acid rain and the devastation it has wrought in sensitive receptor areas. What's the purpose of having this environmental statute if the problem isn't going to be abated?"
 
Rules Unintended by Congress
 She added that the Bush Administration had drafted rules that added a provision not intended by Congress, allowing utilities to generate allowances by cleaning up before the new requirements took effect.
The Environmental Defense Fund has filed a similar suit.
A spokeswoman for Lilco, Suzanne Halpin, said that even with the trading provision, the Clean Air Act would sharply cut overall sulfur dioxide emissions. "It's a new approach to cost-effective energy regulation and it should be given a chance to work," she said. She would not comment directly on the suit.
In another attack on the deal, Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester County who is the chairman of the committee on environmental conservation, has introduced a bill that could be voted on Monday that would require utilities in Lilco's position to file an environmental impact statement. If the statement shows damage, the trade could be blocked by the Public Service Commission.
"That there is a national scheme is terrific," he said. "That New York should pay the price is terrible."
But the Environmental Defense Fund, a national group based in Manhattan, does not like the New York State bill. If a market can develop in emissions trading, the group reasons, it will encourage Midwestern utilities, the nation's most polluting, to clean up in excess of the Federal standards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ACID RAIN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UTILITY RATES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



375 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Despite Plant's Closing, a Town Remains Hopeful

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CORTLAND, N.Y., March 8

 BODY:
When Pamela Mott started working at Smith Corona's factory here 15 years ago, she was continuing a family tradition. Her parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts and cousins made their livings building typewriters for a company whose roots in upstate New York go back nearly 100 years.
The tradition will end with her. Recently, the plant began layoffs in preparation for moving its assembly line to Mexico. But Ms. Mott is adapting to the change and so, it appears, is Cortland, a town 30 miles south of Syracuse that is no stranger to the loss of factory jobs. 
 Besides the steady decline of Smith Corona, factory shutdowns in the mid-1970's claimed a number of tool-and-die shops, a sheet metal plant and a truck company. The message to local development officials was clear: diversify.
Since then, the arrival of new businesses and the expansion of some existing ones seem to have offset the recent jobs losses in this county of 48,000 people. Figures from the New York State Labor Department show that the number of nonagricultural jobs in Cortland County actually increased slightly from 1978 to 1992.
"We're not talking miracles here," said Richard Elliot, executive director of the Cortland County Economic Development Committee. "We're not doubling the number of jobs, but considering the gloom-and-doom comments that were made in the past when factories were leaving, I think we're holding our own."
The Mayor, Ronald Walsh, said: "What we're in the midst of is a transition. It's a transition from having the main employers be businesses that are here by accident because their founders in the 1800's happened to be from Cortland to companies that are here because it makes sense for them to be here. Smith Corona is just one more chapter of that transition."
In Cortland, diversification means businesses like the Marietta Corporation, which packages soap and other amenities for hotels; the J. M. Murray Center Inc., a provider of services for the disabled; NCC Industries, a producer of lingerie, and Buckbee-Mears, which builds television components. All these companies arrived here or expanded in the last 15 years and each employs about 500 people.
At Smith Corona, 18 assembly-line employees worked their last day at the plant last Friday. About 70 more will lose their jobs by the end of this month. The cuts will continue -- about 100 people a month -- until the plant closes this fall.
For 875 Smith Corona workers, there is help in finding new careers at a transition center financed by the state and the company.
Pamela Mott, who supports herself and her 10-year-old son, is back in school. Her tuition and books are paid for by the Federal Government while another grant supplements her unemployment benefits. After years on the assembly line, Ms. Mott, 33, plans to become a medical technician and eventually a veterinarian.
"It just sounds like a springboard to me to get somewhere," she said. "I have a bad feeling I would have sat right there for the rest of my life."
Suzie Fitzgerald, 35, has worked as a quality-control inspector for 17 years. With the help of retraining grants, she is studying to become a nurse. Her two oldest daughters, Tori, 7, and Shannon, 6, are amused.
"They think it's funny that I'm going back to school," she said. "They laugh when I have to do homework along with them. And it's a career that I couldn't have started otherwise, not with them to support."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRTA (NASDAQ) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SMITH CORONA CORP MARIETTA CORP (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITH CORONA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CORTLAND COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS (LABOR); TYPEWRITERS AND TYPEWRITING LAYOFFS (90%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOTEL AMENITIES (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



376 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Other New York Owner: Quiet and Supportive

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla., March 13

 BODY:
The Mets are 2-6 and the owner is in the dugout. All, however, is quiet. Fred Wilpon, the president and co-owner of the Mets, is not George Steinbrenner.
Those who inhabit Shea Stadium, from management executives to players to fans, have enjoyed that indisputable, arguably luxurious reality for more than a decade. There has been no bombast from the owner's box, no front-office revolving doors, no tours of duty in exile. 
 "George has a style and strategy that works for him," Wilpon said here today. "All that occurs with him doesn't occur because he doesn't think it's good for his enterprise."
 
Public's the Judge
 What, then, of Wilpon's style and its effect on his enterprise, the Mets? What is the track record established by ownership that has chosen public circumspection over screaming headlines, stability over shakeups and respect within the game's inner circles of power above personal ego gratification?
"That's open to question," said Wilpon, the 56-year-old who was born in Brooklyn and who has owned a piece of the Mets since 1980. "That's up to the public."
Wilpon's links to the public are not well-established or often used. He rarely offers remarks for the record, and even more infrequently grants extended interviews. But with the Mets coming off consecutive fifth-place finishes and with Shea attendance having declined by more than a million over the last two seasons, Wilpon did not dismiss the notion that perhaps some direct communication with the public was appropriate, perhaps even obligatory.
 
Supports His Team
 And so Wilpon -- with a spring training game canceled because of the storm blowing across Florida, and up the East Coast -- spoke at length this morning about himself, and the Mets and baseball in general. Among the points he covered were the following:
*Wilpon, refusing to criticize a single management decision leading up to the disastrous 1992 season, gave every indication that General Manager Al Harazin's job security is not in jeopardy.
*The owner was unable to account for the recurrent rumor that the Mets were or could be for sale, but he categorically rejected the possibility, calling the Mets "a long-term asset" that he will help continue to run with Nelson Doubleday "for ourselves and our families." Wilpon said that even the unappealing economic prospect of revenue-sharing by the major league clubs would not compel him to contemplate selling his interest in the Mets.
*The Mets, while "basically a stable business operation," have "absolutely taken a financial hit" in recent seasons as attendance has plummeted.
*The club's program for improving minority-group representation in its front office has not to date produced acceptable results. When pressed, though, Wilpon could not cite any reasons for the failure other than "circumstances," insisting that "it's not for lack of trying." Wilpon said major league baseball would announce a minority hiring program within 10 days that would contain specific strategies, as well as real goals and timetables.
*The recent proposal to divide the leagues into three divisions with inter-league play and playoff wildcard clubs remains only "a concept at the moment," but is one "with great possibilities."
*The Mets, on paper, are a better club in 1993 than they were in 1992.
"We're all on the line, including Nelson and myself," said Wilpon. "We're on the line with the public."
Wilpon's recent encounters with the public at Shea have been painfully intimate. The place has been largely abandoned late in both of the last two seasons, the Mets having lost relevance in the National League East and New York having lost interest in the Mets.
"To tell you it has been easy would be an untruth," said Wilpon. "It's been very uncomfortable."
Wilpon, though, shrugged off the suggestion that the club was at any profound crossroads in its fight for New York's heart or its future financial viability. He said he was aware of the possibility that the Mets had left many New Yorkers disaffected by what he termed "a lack of hard-nosed effort," but he said he was satisfied with the organizational parts that were in place and remained convinced that another authentically competitive season would restore the club's stature in the city.
"My support of our people is unequivocal," said Wilpon. "I don't think there was anything we did to prepare for the 1992 season that I would say, in retrospect, we should have done differently."
That includes a lot: Harazin's succession of Frank Cashen as general manager, the hiring of Jeff Torborg as manager, the signing of Bobby Bonilla for $29 million, the trade for Bret Saberhagen.
"No criticism," Wilpon said abruptly.
Wilpon said he similarly has no regrets about his purchase of the Mets, and has found himself more challenged than worn down by his increasingly expansive and powerful role within baseball.
"The purchase of the Mets has been a good investment," said Wilpon. "It's a long-term investment and will coninue to be. Obviously, if you don't win, you don't maximize revenue. But the Mets are profitable, and the budget management has put before Nelson and myself has been approved. There is a plan."
"As for my involvement in the conduct of the game and its future, I don't look at it as having worn me down," said Wilpon, who was personally hurt by the ouster of Fay Vincent as commissioner. "Clearly, there have been things that have occurred that have pained me, that are not right. And that's why it's very mportant for us to get it right as we go forward. We are in an industry that means more to the American public than many of the country's largest businesses. It is our national pastime, and it can be more than that for the world."
 
Knows Discrimination
 Should it be more than it is for members of America's minority groups? Wilpon said yes.
"Look, years ago, I was a Jew going into business," said Wilpon. "There were places I couldn't go, things that were closed to me. I hated it. It stinks. Baseball will get better."
Any chance Fred Wilpon will get louder? He said no.
"It's not my style," he said. "My style allows me freedom. Being recognized has no meaning for me. I won't be in any headlnes."
The Mets, of course, will make headlines. They always do. They just haven't made them with their accomplishments of late.
"I think we are going to surprise people this year," said Wilpon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred Wilpon (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); WEATHER (68%); SPORTS REVENUES (67%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; WILPON, FRED; DOUBLEDAY, NELSON GEORGE STEINBRENNER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



377 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 2482 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
For Pateks, the Safety Net Fails

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BLUE SPRINGS, Mo.

 BODY:
A summer breeze rippled the curtain of the open window in the dark master bedroom on Evergreen Lane in this Kansas City suburb. The breeze carried with it the scent of a recent rain that still lay in scattered patches on the silent streets. At 3:35 on that morning last July 21, the telephone rang in that bedroom, waking the couple there.
"Is this the Patek residence?" asked the caller. 
 "Yes," said the wife, who had reached over to interrupt the ringing.
"You have a daughter, Kimberlie Patek?"
"Yes."
Jerri Patek does not remember who the caller was; nor does her husband, Fred Patek, the former shortstop for the Kansas City Royals and a three-time All-Star. But neither will ever forget what he said next.
"I'm from the Heartland East Hospital in St. Joe. Your daughter's been in a car accident."
"Is she hurt bad?" Jerri asked, her voice stricken.
"You need to come right away," replied the caller. He said nothing more.
With the click of the receiver, the Pateks were plunged into an odyssey of pain and personal loss that has left their daughter a quadriplegic and the family facing medical bills that already total more than a million dollars because she was not covered by her father's insurance policy.
But that night, in the hour's drive to the hospital in St. Joseph, Mo., the Pateks saw none of that. In their mind's eye they remembered the last time they had seen Kim, who had turned 20 years old two months earlier, a pretty, athletic young woman with shoulder-length blond hair and "always going and moving," as her mother said. It was two days before the phone call, on a Sunday afternoon at Royals Stadium.
Patek, who had been the shortest player in the major leagues at 5 feet 5 inches, was being inducted into the Royals' Hall of Fame. His family -- his wife and daughters, Kim and Heather, 10 months older than Kim -- were at home plate. Kim, who was 5-2 ("short like my father," she had said), wore a blue summer dress and red high heels and a winsome smile. She had recently moved out of her parents' home to a small apartment in Kansas City, gotten her own car, a white Ford Probe, and taken a job managing a loan office.
While much of what happened right after they got the phone call that night is a fog, Patek does remember that the roads to the hospital "were torn up" with construction, and on a bridge that had become one lane a truck had spilled furniture, blocking traffic. Fred, who is normally mild-mannered, shouted at a policeman that he had to get through because of an emergency, then threatened to throw the furniture into the river if he wasn't allowed to pass before speeding around the roadblock without police pursuit.
At the hospital, the Pateks were told that Kim was in a coma and had suffered injury to her spinal cord. They were taken to a room where she was hooked up to a life-support system. Clergy was there. A doctor told them that Kim was not expected to live through the night. Although she survived, their next news was that Kim would be a quadriplegic for the rest of her life and would never have feeling below her jaw.
"There are no words to describe how our hearts felt," Patek recalled.
Two or three days later, he called his insurance company to check on the policy that he still had through the Major League Baseball Players Association. Patek had annually paid $7,000 for what he checked off as "full family coverage." More bad news: he was told the policy states that when the holder's children turn 20, and unless they are full-time students -- Kim had shortly before left college -- they are no longer covered. Kim had not been covered yet by her new employer, either.
The family's understanding is that, had the group policy still been in effect, it would have covered Kim's medical costs to $1 million.
"The insurance company is under no obligation to tell the insured about this and that we could have taken out what they call a Cobra policy to cover the kids," said Patek. "It was my fault. I know I should have read the policy more carefully. I know I'm not much different in this than a lot of people, but that doesn't excuse it.
"I thought, 'I'm ruined.' No doubt in my mind. But my daughter's life was all that was important. I didn't think money. I thought survival. Will she live? But I was scared. I had this horrible feeling in my stomach. What was going to happen?"
 
A Blizzard of Zeros Accompany the Bills
 The Pateks had saved a modest amount of money. Patek, now 49, played in the major leagues from 1968 to 1981.
He began with the Pittsburgh Pirates at $7,000 a year. In the last three years of his career, with the Royals and Angels, his salary reached $100,000. After he retired, he lost money in real estate, got involved in restaurants that weren't particularly successful and had been a salesman for a computer-paper firm before he was "axed," he said, in a reorganization last spring. Jerri had a job selling real estate.
Last spring, he returned to baseball and became the roving minor league infield and base-running coach for the Milwaukee Brewers, at around $30,000 a year. He did not take additional insurance from the Brewers because he already had his policy through the players association. He would travel for a couple of weeks and then come home for a week. The week of the accident, he happened to be home.
After the accident, Kim remained in intensive care. The first week in the hospital cost $9,000; the total for the six weeks she was there was $45,000. She would be taken to the Texas Institute for Research and Rehabilitation in Houston, and there the cost was about $2,500 a day. She was there for six weeks. In the nine months since the accident, the costs have been about a million dollars.
The Pateks have raised close to $400,000 through various means: charity basketball games played by celebrities like Darrell Porter, a former teammate of Patek's, the former Royals pitcher Dennis Leonard and local athletes such as Lynn Dickey, the former pro quarterback. George Brett has signed hundreds of balls that were sold to raise money. Nolan Ryan and Mickey Mantle have offered to do whatever they could.
The Baseball Assistance Team -- B.A.T., an organization for needy former players -- has also sent "a substantial sum," said Patek. "And we've received money from some really wonderful people in Kansas City. I used to be involved in a lot of charities when I was a player. I guess I'm reaping some of the rewards of that now."
The Pateks are hoping that Kim will be able to get a nerve implant that would allow her to be off her respirator during the day -- though she would have to go back on it at night. The implant may cost $200,000. Patek estimates that other bills for Kim's care may total more than $1 million in the next year.
After two months and three hospitals, Kim had developed her third case of pneumonia. She was being fed through tubes but was losing weight. She had dropped from 105 pounds to about 60. "Daddy," she said, "I'm not afraid to die. But I want to die at home. Please take me home."
But doctors convinced the family to keep Kim in the hospital, and it was only three weeks ago that she finally did come home, with a banner around the house reading, "Welcome Home Kim, We All Love You."
She is now able to eat normally, and her weight has risen to about 100 pounds. She lies in a bed in the family room of the four-bedroom, three-level wood-frame house. She is hooked up to a Puritan Bennett model 2801 respirator, with a green light indicating it is on, and breathing through a tube inserted into her trachea. The Pateks, either Fred or Jerri or Heather, who works in a bank, have never left her side in nine months.
At night, Jerri Patek sleeps in a bed beside Kim's. She wakes every four hours to turn Kim on her side to pound her lungs to remove the congestion. Other times she must be there to ease the spasms. Kim must speak around the "trache," as the tube in her neck is called. It is hard for her to say more than one or two words before having to catch her breath, and sometimes, when the respirator tube accidentally disconnects, she has to signal to her parents by clicking her teeth. In the night, Jerri or Fred have been awakened with the cry, "Mom! Dad! Spasms! I -- feel them -- coming!" Kim's body vibrates as Jerri or Fred hold down her legs and pat them. Kim's eyes cloud with pain and grow teary.
Kim gets out of the house occasionally. She had gone to two of the benefit basketball games for her and has visited a dentist and gone shopping. She is taken in a wheelchair and placed in a van that the Pateks have rented. "To load her up takes about a half hour," said Patek.
When they get outside now, on these gray Missouri days, a blue sign planted in the brown lawn may be seen in front of their house. The house is for sale, and has been since the accident, for two reasons. One is, the Pateks could use the money. The other is that, as Fred says, "We need a house for Kim with no steps."
"So far no takers," said Patek. "And it's a little hard because of the economy right now, but also because of all the medical equipment around. It's not what you might call a model house."
 
Along With Tears, Hope for Tomorrow
 Kim, lying now in pink pajamas and a white bow in her hair, had recently had the fingernails of her immobile hands painted red by her mother. Her head was propped up by a pillow and a towel. Her neck needs constant stabilization. The family is looking for some kind of apparatus to do this but hasn't found the right one.
"Kim doesn't want to wear something that looks like a football helmet," said Fred.
"Still vain, huh?" said a visitor, Kim's high school gymnastics, diving and track coach, Lori Young.
"Yep," she said, smiling.
Young kidded Kim about how she and the other girls would primp and straighten their hair before Kim ran the anchor on the 800-relay team, and her father said of her athleticism, "She was a natural."
Kim says she still has all her clothes in a closet. "I want to keep everything," she said. "I'm afraid to lose it. I've lost enough."
She had a boyfriend for five years, but he hasn't called since the accident. "That hurts," said Kim.
Some of the hurt comes in little things like when her older sister, Heather, prepares to go out for a night. "That's so hard for Kim because she loved running here and there all the time," said Fred. "There's a lot of tears."
And there are tears with Fred and Jerri. "Sometimes," he said, "we're at our rope's end. But then we think, 'Tomorrow will be better.' "
Kim says she has fought the way her father did because he had to combat the odds himself. When Patek was called up to Class AAA in Columbus, the manager, Larry Shepard, said, "You're not the damn guy they sent me to play shortstop, are you?" He was. And Kim smiled.
"I can see the change in Fred," said Dennis Leonard, the former teammate and still a neighbor of the Pateks. "He's a little grayer, his face is a little more drawn. But he's been amazing, him and Jerri, the way they've held up."
"Nothing can prepare you for this," said Patek, who continues to be paid by the Brewers. "And all the winning and the trying to get to the top is like it never happened. Baseball seems in a different lifetime. And I read in the papers about the complaints of some of the athletes, about whatever it is that they're unhappy about, and I think, 'Bless their hearts. They have no idea.' "
Patek might be remembered best as a player in the last game of the 1977 five-game championship series between the Yankees and Royals. In the bottom of the ninth inning, he hit a smash to Graig Nettles at third that Nettles turned into a double play, giving the Yankees their second straight playoff victory over the Royals. The cameras captured Patek sitting alone in the dugout, his head in his heads in despair.
"All that seems like it never existed now," said Patek.
 
Exhortations To 'Keep Pushing'
 Sometimes, alone, the family thinks about the accident, which Kim does not remember at all. She had been driving home late at night, possibly had fallen asleep at the wheel, or tried to dodge a deer, or maybe the road was wet. But she hit the median divider on Interstate 29 and the car tumbled end over end six times. She was thrown out the window, even though she had been wearing a seat belt. A truck driver administered mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and called an ambulance.
Yes, Patek said now, there is sometimes talk by Kim about not wanting to live anymore. But there is also talk about trying to live better. They had met a 36-year-old woman, Kathleen DeSilva, an attorney for the Texas rehabilitation hospital. She too is a quadriplegic, and broke her spine when she was 16 and a gymnast. She is married to a paraplegic. "She said, 'Keep pushing,' " Kim said, adding that DeSilva had gone through everything she had. "She understood. She was -- an -- inspiration."
The family is religious, members of the Hickman Mills Church of Christ, and they pray a great deal. Kim said she has asked God, "Why?" But she said he has always been there. "He's helped me through all this," she said.
That night, the family loaded Kim into a van and took her to a basketball game at the Chrisman High School in nearby Independence that was played for her and another young woman who is also a quadriplegic. The "celebrity" team wore white T-shirts that read, "Kim's All-Stars." The other team, members of the faculty of the high school, wore red T-shirts with the same inscription and a drawing of Kim's face.
In yellow blouse and yellow jeans, Kim was rolled onto the court by her father. A crowd of 700 cheered Kim and the other woman, Linda Miller, 23, who shared center court in a wheelchair. The spectators paid $5 a ticket for the game. Patek would give all the receipts to the other girl's family. "Her father's insurance ran out, and he needs the money as much as I do," Patek said. "But he doesn't have the opportunities for the charities that I do because I was a ballplayer. It's terrible about this insurance thing and the incredibly high costs of medicines, hospitals, equipment and nursing help when you're confronted with a catastrophe in your family. Why should an individual in America have to go through this, being nearly wiped out physically, emotionally, financially?"
At halftime the Pateks, with Kim growing tired, left to return home. Covering her with a white blanket, Patek wheeled her to the van where, with Jerri holding her neck, she was lifted up by hydraulic lift.
In a few moments, the van drove out of the high school parking lot. A little yellow light went on in the back, where Jerri was holding Kim, perhaps to straighten her head or her blanket, or to ease a spasm. Patek turned onto Noland Road and the light in the back of the van switched off, as the vehicle merged with the night traffic.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kimberlie Patek watching basketball game in her honor last week. Her mother, Jerri, is at rear and father, Fred, at left. Below, a picture of Kimberlie before accident. (David Hutson for The New York Times)(pg. 2); Kimberlie Patek at home with her grandmother Delma Freeze. (David Hutson for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KANSAS CITY ROYALS; MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN KANSAS CITY ROYALS RADIO NETWORK (67%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (83%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS CITY ROYALS; MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN KANSAS CITY ROYALS (83%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HANDICAPPED; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; HEALTH INSURANCE BASEBALL (91%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); PARALYSIS (73%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (73%); WOMEN (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA; PATEK, FRED; PATEK, KIMBERLIE

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



378 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
How To Help Russia

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB; Anna Quindlen is on vacation.

 BODY:
President Clinton has fashioned a no-lose policy to go the extra mile in aid and showmanship to "save" President Yeltsin and democracy in Russia. If it succeeds, he becomes Saint Bill. If it fails, somebody else has to take the blame -- Congress or the allies for not coughing up enough aid, or George Bush for doing practically nothing or the big bad Russians themselves.
No President could resist such a policy. Politically, it's foolproof. No one will ever be able to tar him with losing Russia. Strategically, it's probably his best shot. He knows that Western efforts can help only at the margins. But sometimes great historical scales are tipped by a single act of courage or one vote or a seemingly futile outstretched hand. 
 It won't be easy to sell Congress and the allies on more aid. And facing hard sells, Washington officialdom generally resorts to wrapping its efforts in standard foreign policy baloney. Someone else's burden becomes our burden. Friends are turned into gods and adversaries into devils. More money becomes a substitute for better policy, a strategy, a plan.
If President Clinton follows this well-traveled low road, he'll have an easier time collecting donations and a harder time promoting democracy in Russia. My advice for him is to break all rules and precedents -- and sell the truth.
First, Mr. Clinton should not try to pitch his policy as a way for the West to save Russia. It has to be sold as a means to help the Russians save themselves.
The Russians have already mastered one of the cardinal principles of democracy: it's easier to wait for miracles than to make tough decisions. Accordingly, they are waiting for the West to rescue them, while learning the fine art of threatening revolutions to extract more money. Over and again, Mr. Clinton has to remind everyone that the fate of democracy and free enterprise in Russia depends on the Russians themselves.
Second, Mr. Clinton is right to promote Boris Yeltsin, but wrong to join him in a war against the Russian Parliament. This body has not been a reformer's delight, but it's not dominated by a bunch of right-wing crazies.
Mr. Yeltsin looks to be the best bet around for reforming Russia and tending to Western interests. So, Mr. Clinton is right to back him. The great Russian democrat, however, has made a lot of mistakes and may not be around much longer. More likely, he'll still be President, but shorn of much of his power.
The Russian Parliament will become stronger, and while that's not good, it's not terrible either. About one-fifth of the deputies in the full Parliament are hard-line nationalists. A roughly equal number are Yeltsin loyalists. The diverse center group stretches from conservatives to industrial managers to former Yeltsin backers.
A solid majority of this Parliament would pursue reforms more slowly than Mr. Yeltsin, but would not dream of reverting to Communism. It would also be far less friendly to the U.S., but not anti-American.
The White House should not be burning bridges with this power-to-be. But that's exactly what it did in saying it would not oppose Mr. Yeltsin if he moved to suspend Parliament.
Third, Mr. Clinton should not focus his new effort on getting more money for Russia, at least not right now. He should emphasize better ways to spend aid and help the Russians reform themselves.
Throwing money at a trillion-dollar economy that's sinking in political anarchy, waste and corruption is not a brilliant idea. Russian bureaucrats can't even get themselves organized to spend most of the billions the West has already promised them.
Of the $800 million earmarked by the U.S. to help the Russians and others dismantle nuclear weapons, only $25 million has been disbursed. Why? The Russians don't want to denuke so quickly. This kind of problem has become typical.
Before the Russians need more money from the West, they need a sensible plan that gives them incentives to fix themselves up. As of now, the West and Russia haven't begun to develop such a plan.
So, Mr. Clinton, embrace Mr. Yeltsin in Vancouver for what it's worth. But spare us another worldwide begging session to save democracy in Russia until you have an overall strategy that makes sense -- especially to the Russians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GELB, LESLIE H BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



379 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: MARCH 7-13: Japan and Mexico;
It's Our Ruling Party, And We'll Cry if We Want to

 BODY:
Japan and Mexico, two of the world's most economically dynamic countries and each long dominated by a single party, last week suffered embarrassments born of the riches that make their political systems work for the well-connected.
In Japan, Shin Kanemaru, until recently the kingmaker of the ruling Liberal Democrats, suffered disgrace on top of tax evasion charges when the authorities went through his home and offices and found hundreds of pounds of gold bars and $50 million in cash and securities. The stash is widely assumed to have been ill-gotten, and meant as grease for Mr. Kanemaru to apply to the wheels of Japanese politics. Even jaded Japanese were amazed at just how much political lubrication is evidently required nowadays. 
 In Mexico, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari tried to quell a furor created by reports that he had asked nearly 30 executives to contribute $25 million each to the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party. This after Mr. Salinas had promised repeatedly to make political competition in Mexico more fair.
The developments stirred new calls for reform in both countries, which are trying to enhance their international profiles.
Dogged by scandal at home, Japan's politicians are hard-pressed to exert leadership abroad commensurate with its economic clout. And Mexico is having a hard time convincing skeptics that it is democratically progressive enough to be intertwined with the United States and Canada in the still-unratified North American Free Trade Agreement.
It's all enough to set tongues clucking in Washington among elected officials dependent on year-round fund-raising and political action committees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; MEXICO JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (92%); SCANDALS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); TAX FRAUD (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); ETHICS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SALINAS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



380 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Future of Tall Towers Shaken By Circumstances at Street Level

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
AS investigators and construction workers inched their way last week to Ground Zero, an old question about the World Trade Center, once the audacious symbol of a city that never doubted its ability to reinvent itself, was also being exhumed: Should it ever have been built?
The crippling bombing exposed the vulnerabilities of a complex made for the very idea of an intense concentration of commerce. That the concentration came under the sponsorship of a public agency only aggravated to the question.In the bombing's aftermath, for example, was the spectacle of financially pressed landlords scrambling to win tenants dislocated from a mega-competitor owned not by a private company, but by a public agency that pays the city relatively modest fees in lieu of real estate taxes. 
 More broadly, the viability of the Twin Towers and sister projects that dot cities across America has come under question for reasons that have nothing to do with the disruptive events of last month. Among them: a battered economy that has left 400 million square feet of office space vacant around the country, communications advances which make it far less necessary for companies to cluster their activities under one roof, and an evolved sense of what is special and most satisfying about cities.
This, in the sensibility of many, is less the stand-alone giantism of projects like the Trade Center and Renaissance Center in Detroit than the motley, serendipitous mix that colors the most interesting urban streets -- the very mix, in fact, that marked the bustling, ramshackle blocks of electronics stores and discount shops that gave way to the Twin Towers.
"I just don't know anywhere in the United States where anyone is thinking of that kind of heroic development embodied by the World Trade Center," said Richard H. Bradley, president of the International Downtown Association, made up of 400 organizations focused on the renewal of central cities.
 
New Projects Haunted
 The issues that confronted the Trade Center, however, still dominate development proposals in cities across the country. In New York City alone, the ghosts of the Trade Center debate waft through largeplans like the now dormant multi-billion dollar Times Square project, and smaller ones, such as the city's effort to move off the Avenue of the Americas the decades-old wholesale flower market, an incongruous patch of green in an area that might otherwise be ripe for high- rise development.
The formidable statistics generated by the Center would seem to provide ammunition for those pressing for large scale plans. The Center houses more than 350 companies with between 40,000 and 50,000 employees in 12 million square feet of office space, the bulk of which is in the twin 110-story towers which have become worldwide symbols of New York City. Through the deep local recession, it has managed to rent 89 percent of its space. And millions of tourists and commuters flood through it every year.
Furthermore, argues Stanley Brezenoff, executive director of the Center's owner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Towers opened 20 years ago when the downtown business district was reeling from pressure from Midtown. "The Trade Center accomplished the goal of supporting, reinventing and anchoring Downtown," he said.
But there were hidden costs and unmet goals. Destroyed to make way for the center was one of the most active hodge podges of economic activity in the city, an Electronics District, that merchants estimated employed 30,000 people. Three-hundred-twenty-five stores and 1,000 businesses operating above street level were pushed off the site and never reappeared as a distinct district.And in retrospect, the selection of this site seems to have been less than well thought out.The Twin Towers themselves seemed less the product of a developed planning ideal than what was referred to at the time as New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller's "edifice complex," which critics said left a legacy of overly large and torpid buildings around the state.
And when they first opened in the early '70's, recalled Elliot Sclar, professor of urban planning at Columbia University, "those buildings almost single-handedly destroyed the commercial real estate market downtown." In fact the Trade Center had such a hard time finding tenants that it packed floor after floor with state offices who paid substantially lower rents.
 
Private Blue-Chip Tenants
 The original goal of bolstering the Port of New York seems to have vanished with the years. Early renderings show the Center against a backdrop of ships docked at Manhattan piers. Pronouncements by David Rockefeller and others emphasized that the Center was necessary to keep America's Number One port ahead of its competion.
Today no freighters dock at Manhattan piers and the port ranks second behind Los Angeles-Long Beach. Most tenants at the Center, too, seem to have only a remote relationship to the international movement of goods. Many of its largest tenants -- Dean Witter, Deloitte & Touche, and banks like Fiduciary Trust and Daichi Kangyo -- may deal in international securities and financial trading, but they could make up the roster of any privately developed blue chip building.
"It was not necessary for government to build a high rise office center basically for private sector customers," said Alan Altshuler, a professor of planning and public policy at Harvard University. "I don't think there's any question that the private sector could have accommodated the need."
The private buildings, though, would have been smaller and more diffuse, and because of their size less vulnerable to the current epic economic disruption at the Center.
If planned well, said Fred Kent, executive director of the not-for-profit planning group, Project for Public Spaces, they could have included buildings of ten to 20 stories filled with street-level stores and fitted around public squares.
As for the goal of building the world's tallest building, which the Twin Towers jointly were for a few years, "There's no city in the United States that's interested in that," said Mr. Altshuler. "I think we're beyond it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Merchants demonstrating on Greenwich Street in 1962 against the Port Authority's plan to condemn their downtown Manhattan stores to build the World Trade Center. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RENAISSANCE CENTER VENTURE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; EXPLOSIONS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (64%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



381 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: When All (Busy) Roads Lead to the Casino

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER

 BODY:
The ground under David Candler's house shakes when the buses whiz by on Route 2A on their way to Foxwoods High Stakes Bingo and Casino in Ledyard. The house, built in 1740, is only 25 feet from the road. And the basement, with its dirt floor, acts as an echo chamber, spreading the rumbling to every corner of the house.
"This place was never designed to have buses going by at 45 to 50 miles an hour," said Mr. Candler, who lives in Preston, just north of Ledyard. 
 "The road was designed for buggies."
Between 12,000 and 20,000 people a day visit Foxwoods, traveling Route 2A and other country roads, said the casino's president and chief officer, G. Michael Brown, along with the 3,840 employees who work there. The casino, which marked its first anniversary on Feb. 15, has brought jobs and new business to a southeastern Connecticut economy fighting to recover from recession and bracing for possible cutbacks at the Navy's submarine base in Groton.
But at the same time, the breathtaking pace of the casino's growth has taken people in Ledyard and neighboring towns by surprise. Residents are suddenly confronted with steadily increasing traffic, pressure from developers eager to build, and concerns about adequate police patrols on the highways.
People on the staff of the Southeastern Connecticut Regional Planning Agency predicted three years ago that the casino, owned by the Mashantucket Pequot Indian tribe, would stimulate an influx of business. But there was no similar enterprise in New England to look to for a hint of exactly how big the market would be, said the assistant director of the agency, Gerhard J. Amt. A 1991 study by the agency estimated that 7,400 employees and patrons would fill the bingo hall, casino and related operations during peak hours.
As Foxwoods prepared to open, plans were made to keep the gaming operation open 16 hours a day, with employees working in two separate shifts, Mr. Brown said.
 
Working Overtime
 "We were so overwhelmed with patrons from the minute we cut the ribbon that we never closed," he said. "The staff worked double shifts until we could train more employees."
When the next phase of construction is finished in October, Foxwoods will be the nation's largest casino, with 126,225 square feet of gaming space. The next largest operations are the Excalibur Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, with 123,944 square feet and the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City, which has 120,000 square feet of gaming space, according to the Nevada Gaming Control Board and the New Jersey Casino Control Commission.
The additions to Foxwoods will include a second casino, a five-story underground parking garage, a promenade with shops and three restaurants, a health club, two hotels, movie theater and a theater for live shows.
Although traffic on all roads leading to Foxwoods has grown steadily since the casino opened, the greatest increase has been on Route 2, which passes through North Stonington, Ledyard and Preston. Before the casino opened, 7,000 vehicles a day were using Route 2 east of Route 164 near Preston. By April 1992, the number had jumped to nearly 12,000 on weekdays and as high as 19,600 on summer weekends, Mr. Amt said. Traffic has increased even more since slot machines were installed at the casino in January.
Summer will be even worse for Stonington, which is on the coast southeast of Ledyard. Not only will there be the casino traffic on Route 2 and other nearby roads but there will also be motorists using Route 2 to reach the Rhode Island beaches, said Stonington First Selectman Peter N. Dibble.
 
More New Officers Needed
 Ledyard Mayor Joseph Lozier said he would need to increase the town's police force by two officers over the next two years to curb speeding on roads leading to the casino. "But," he said, "the town can't afford to do it."
The State Department of Transportation is studying changes to Route 2 to accommodate the traffic, and members of the Mashantucket Pequot tribe are involved in the planning.
"What we're going to do here is look 10 years into the future," said the department's transportation planning administrator, Richard Martinez. "The committee wants to know what other development will occur so we can get a full picture. Once we do that, we can take a look and see whether or not the roadways can accommodate it."
The Mashantucket Pequot tribe plans to reconstruct several intersections identified by the town and the state as needing improvement, and to widen a three-mile section of Route 2 between Routes 214 and 164 that runs past the casino. The tribe has agreed to pay for these projects, according to its lawyer, Jackson King. There is another reason the casino represents a venture without precedent in Connecticut. The Mashantucket Pequot tribe is officially recognized by Congress as a sovereign nation, and though its development projects must meet Federal standards, certain land owned by the tribe, like the casino site, is not subject to local zoning regulations and property taxes.
While residents are pleased about the new job opportunities Foxwoods has brought to the area, some worry that they have no town agency, like a zoning board, where they can discuss issues involving the casino, said State Senator Catherine Welles Cook, a Republican from Groton, whose district includes Stonington, North Stonington and Preston.
 
'Independent Folks'
 "These are communities that decide things in town meetings," she said. "They're independent folks. There is no place for them to go to say, 'Wait a minute. I can't turn left out of my driveway to go to church in the morning,' or, 'What are they doing about wetlands?' The casino could be the best thing since ice cream. But they aren't sure of that, because they haven't participated in it."
But First Selectman Nicholas H. Mullane 2d of North Stonington, which adjoins Ledyard, has a different outlook. Residents can turn to their local legislators, he said, adding that the Mashantucket Pequots have been good neighbors. Fire and emergency vehicles owned by the tribe respond to accidents on roads in the area and the tribe has kept nearby towns informed about its development plans.
Furthermore, the lines of traffic on Route 2 did not originate with the casino, Mr. Mullane maintained. Instead, the traffic was building for years, and even though a plan for improving the road was drawn up in the 1970's, only minor changes have been made, Mr. Mullane said: "This just put the last nail in the coffin."
The Route 2 corridor is an area of wooded hills, wetlands, farmlands, scattered homes and occasional businesses. While many residents would welcome motels, shops and restaurants seeking to capitalize on the growing number of casino visitors, there are just as many people who oppose further development, Mrs. Cook said. The answer involves the need to build a tax base and at the same time preserve the rural environment.
 
Farmland to Condos?
 "How do we protect our farmland from being made into condos?" she asked. "We need to have funds to commit to planning, and we need a tax base to preserve that land so that everyone's needs will be protected." 
Ledyard, North Stonington and Preston are considering new zoning regulations to protect their towns from unchecked growth. In Ledyard, for instance, acreage along Routes 2 and 214 in the northeast corner of town was rezoned to a resort-commercial cluster district, according to Mr. Amt, to prevent haphazard growth. And North Stonington residents are considering new regulations that will permit motels and hotels on Route 2 if the construction is compatible with existing development..
The chief executives of the three towns said that a plan proposed by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. for distributing a portion of the casino's slot machine revenue to local governments failed to take into account the casino's effect on their towns. And since a casino is above local and state taxation, the towns would be left to pay for added costs from its development.
The three town officials met with the Governor to discuss the problem and are now working with Mrs. Cook and other southeastern Connecticut legislators on a plan that would give their towns greater shares of the revenue.
 
$30 Million From Slots in 1992
 Under the agreement between the Governor and the Mashantucket Pequot tribe, $30 million in revenue from the slot machines in 1992 and about $100 million in the following years will be distributed to the 169 cities and towns in the state. Governor Weicker chose to allocate the money through the state's PILOT (Payment in Lieu of Taxes) program, which compensates communities that have large amounts of tax-exempt property.
But Mr. Lozier said Ledyard would receive only $37,000 under this plan. "Nothing has bothered people as much as the way that money was divided up," he said. "People in this town are furious about that."
By contrast, Preston, which has 90 percent of the state-owned Norwich Hospital property within its boundaries, would receive $529,000 in slot machine revenue, according to First Selectman Parke C. Spicer.
The towns in southeastern Connecticut have yet to feel the effects of the casino in full swing, said Mr. Dibble, the Stonington First Selectman. "The only thing that hasn't made the situation uncontrollable is the fact that we are in a recession. The recession has kept people away from vacations. It may be several years after the economy turns around before we deal with what could be a most difficult situation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gamblers playing the slot machines at the Foxwoods High Stakes Bingo and Casino in Ledyard. Neighbors of the casino are worried about increased traffic. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Patrons placing bets at craps table at Foxwoods High Stakes Bingo and Casino in Ledyard. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Map of Connecticut, indicating Casino, major highway reconstruction, intersection improvement and new highway construction. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOXWOODS HIGH STAKES BINGO AND CASINO (LEDYARD, CONN) TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOXWOODS HIGH STAKES BINGO AND CASINO (LEDYARD, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; LEDYARD (CONN) UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PEQUOT INDIANS GAMING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CASINOS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); OVERTIME (73%); RESORTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1993



382 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Clinton Fuel Tax Finds a Few Unexpected Allies

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
ORDINARILY, big companies are not eager for their customers to pay higher taxes any more than the customers themselves like it. But President Clinton's proposed energy tax is demonstrating that, among big auto-makers, refiners and utilities, politics is thicker than oil.
If enacted as proposed, the tax would raise gasoline prices by at least 8 cents a gallon, and a typical homeowner's electric bill by $1.50. However, General Motors, Ford and Chrysler have decided they support the higher fuel tax, and, broadly speaking, so do the chairmen of Arco, the refining company, and Southern California Edison, the utility. Other companies the tax would hurt have hinted that they are not entirely against it. 
 It is help the Administration badly needs. The vast majority of oil and electric companies are on record opposing the tax, but "the fact that you have a few symbolic major players that come out and support a position like this makes an enormous difference," said Alfred A. Marcus, a professor of management at Carleton College in Northfield, Minn. Offering an example, he pointed to airline deregulation during the Carter Administration. Most carriers fought it bitterly, but when United Airlines broke ranks, the White House carried the day, largely because it could say that some in the industry liked its idea.
Why do some players defect? It sounds backwards -- General Motors concluding that what is good for the country is good for G.M. But all of the backers of the tax say that the most important goal is to revive the economy and cut the deficit. Each also has its own reasons -- some of them subject to cynical interpretation.
The domestic car-makers have one overriding legislative goal: to avoid stricter fuel economy requirements. Today their car fleets must get an average of 27.5 miles per gallon, but many in Congress would like to raise that to 40 miles per gallon.
For a few years, the car-makers have been saying they would prefer a higher gasoline tax as a way to discourage gasoline use. Cynics said they did so only because they were sure Congress would never pass one. But the companies offer other explanations.
 
Now Detroit Builds Econo-Boxes
 "If the government is serious about regulating energy, then they ought to do it through market-based approaches, such as a gasoline tax or broad-based energy tax, rather than the command and control approach," said William H. Noack, a General Motors spokesman. Expensive gasoline, the company argues, would make car shoppers conscious of mileage but leave them choices. A 40-mile-per-gallon standard would leave them almost no choice, because car makers would have to sell small cars almost exclusively.
A third possibility is that Detroit smells competitive advantage. The old image of the thrifty Japanese econo-box is out of whack; lately the Japanese have shipped more and more hot cars with thirsty engines. If gas prices go up, then the American models, slightly more efficient and slightly duller, would start looking more attractive
Arco is more surprising. Its chief executive, Lodwrick M. Cook, a co-chairman of the Bush-Quayle campaign, said Mr. Clinton "has taken a gutsy step and deserves our support." "In a very positive and persuasive way," Mr. Cook said, "he has sent a signal to the world that America is serious about putting its economic house in order."
Arco, along with Conoco and Phillips, had previously endorsed gasoline taxes. Of the three, Arco especially has made a career of being a maverick. It espoused pollution-cutting changes in gasoline formulas, for example, and was ready to meet them before its competitors could because it has an unusually adaptable refinery.
Arco, said a company spokesman, keeps its prices low and "can compete effectively in any market out there," including one shrunk by taxes.
An independent oil expert pointed out that taking a counter-intuitive stand is always good for publicity, and maybe for access to the White House too.
Also, the expert said, it is not yet clear whether the energy tax will apply to the oil used in the refinery process itself -- about 5 percent of the total. If that oil is taxed, refining abroad will become much cheaper. If domestic refiners relentlessly oppose the tax, they may lose their leverage over important details like that.
 
Selling Its Skills
 Gaining competitive advantage plays a role among the utilities, too. Southern California Edison is a leader in energy conservation and in producing electricity from renewable sources like wind and sunlight, which would not be taxed. The company could sell its technology and skills around the country. Its chairman, John Bryson, has endorsed an energy tax, if some of it goes toward energy-efficient technologies.
Under a tax, different utilities would face different challenges. Those that buy coal could probably pass the costs directly to customers through fuel-adjustment clauses. Those that own hydroelectric dams or nuclear reactors will have the harder task of applying for rate increases, said Mary Kenkel, a spokeswoman for the Edison Electric Institute, which represents investor-owned utilities.
And some utilities are meeting with the White House to discuss details like whether the tax could be added to the bottom of the customer's bill, as some telephone taxes are, rather than quietly incorporated into the bottom line in a way that makes the utility a tax-collector in disguise. Ms. Kenkel said, "I don't know if they're going to support it, or they just want it fixed."
Whatever position the companies take, the tax will probably cut consumption only marginally. John Lichtblau, chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, noted that the estimated reduction in oil consumption is about 350,000 barrels a day in the year 2000 -- that's from an assumed base of 18 million barrels a day, about a million barrels a day more than is used today. "Imports," he said, "will be significantly higher."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 1993, Sunday / March 28, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the proposed energy tax misidentified the school at which Alfred Marcus is a professor. It is the Carlson School of Management at the University of Wisconsin, not Carlton College.
An article on March 14 about the proposed energy tax misidentified the school at which Alfred Marcus is a professor, and because of an editing error, a correction in this space last Sunday located it incorrectly. It is the Carlson School of Management, not Carleton College. And it is at the University of Minnesota, not the University of Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AUTOMOBILES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GASOLINE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); AIRLINES (71%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



383 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 18; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
In Westport, 'Merchant of Venice'

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
Following a no-frills revue earlier this season, aptly called "No Frills," the Fairfield County Stage Company in Westport is giving in to no-frills Shakespeare. It is inaptly called "The Merchant of Venice."
One understands that Christopher Cull, the director but not the master of the conceit, was looking to make Shakespeare "getable," especially to students in the Fairfield County middle and high schools that are participating in the theater company's educational outreach program. 
 He was also looking to make it affordable, given the economic disadvantage of running a small nonprofit theater. Mr. Cull, who is also the company's associate director, even explains his intentions -- "an approach, not an adaptation" -- from the obligatory nod to the play being the thing, right down to an apologia, in his program notes, about line cuts.
Counterproductively, the play, so approached, is not the thing. Nor is the production, though it is filled with arbitrary effects adaptable to, or approachable by, a play by any other name in the canon. Footlights, sometimes red, shine at stage rear. Flashlights are turned on to denote darkness. Iridescent tubes are twirled. There are steps and there is a stool. And Jessica does a balcony scene on the theater's real balcony.
How then does this "Merchant" according to Mr. Cull begin? For it is the beginning that sets the unwavering style for the next two-and-a-half hours.
Actors, five of them dressed unchangingly in white shirts and black trousers, introduce themselves: "Dramatis personae" at first; then, specifically by name, preceded by stage direction. Thus: "Act I, Scene 2; Belmont, a room in Portia's house; enter Portia and Nerissa." Then the scene. Follow?
A one-man band, Stephen Nunns, fills in as the voice of the people, of servants, attendants, messengers and the ominous sci-fi invisible mouthpiece of the Duke, replete with echoes, at Shylock's trial.
For students, themes will emerge -- love, friendship, tolerance, greed and benevolence -- especially with classroom preparation and follow-through, but this is at the expense of characterization, flow and the play's own impulse and internal logic.
To one for whom the quality of the "Merchant" remains unduly strained, a bare-boned approach ought to work. That it does not, further diminishes the play and nullifies Mr. Cull's intentions. Except for the actors; that is, four of them. Ken Triwush is a clownish Launcelot, a melancholy Antonio, a bold Gratiano and Tubal, too, as ordered. Leah Maddrie (Nerissa, Salerio, Old Gobbo) is versatile. Jerry Gomis is agile as Bassanio and two princes. All speak and move well.
Though the differences between Gwendolyn Lewis as Jessica and Gwendolyn Lewis as Portia are barely discernible -- Ms. Lewis also plays Solanio -- but the fact is that she is a gifted actress, possessed of distinct diction, of fair countenance, of commanding presence, and it is pleasing to hear her speak the speeches and simply say the lines with grace and style.
If it has not yet been made clear to the reader that 5 actors are thrust into 14 roles, be assured that it gets no clearer for the audience, in spite of repeated announcements. For example, "Act IV: Enter Lorenzo and Jessica," and so on.
Especially when it falls to William Shust, not one of the four acting exceptions, to appear as the dreamy Lorenzo, who is Jessica's husband, and the shyster Shylock, who is Jessica's father. Both parts are similarly intoned, neither believably.
In his magnificent plan, Shakespeare created Shylock as a master of irrationality and duality. All the oxymoronica are there: he is oppressor and oppressed, persecutor and persecuted, a wronged villain, a dignified, gentle usurper, the object and the holder of contempt, a small man of stature, a manipulative victim, a maniacal gentleman. It is up to the actor to humanize the character, but there are no revelations here. Those who approach Shylock with hostility, with compassion, with uncertainty, won't change their minds.
Shylock can be played with bitter, angry objectivity, but there is no need to go on with the inexhaustible interpretive possibilities when Mr. Shust, who expectorates with ennui but is more energetically spat at, cowering and stooping, is a Shylock of quiet ineffectuality, more disgruntled than disgraced.
It helps no one to inflict upon Mr. Shust double duty, for the uneasy transition from Shylock to Lorenzo, particularly in the same scene, seems more demanding for the audience than of the actor.
In the end, such streamlined Shakespeare turns into an uninvolving, abstract exercise in acting scenes, doing tricks and displaying half-baked ideas. Does Antonio have a homosexual attraction for Bassanio or does he not? Call it confusion for the sake of clarity.
"The Merchant of Venice," the Westport Playhouse, 25 Powers Court; 227-1072. Performances through next Sunday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Shust in "The Merchant of Venice" in Westport. (Jayson Byrd)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MERCHANT OF VENICE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAIRFIELD COUNTY STAGE COMPANY

ORGANIZATION: FAIRFIELD COUNTY STAGE COMPANY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1993



384 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Yarns Spun, Souls Blessed By Old Salt on City Turf

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN

 BODY:
SAILOR JOE O'DONNELL swaggered into his compact room on Park Street in New Haven the other day, clutching his cane and a plastic bag stuffed with treasures he'd collected from the neighborhood's Dumpsters: a pair of designer sneakers, soap dishes, croissants, poppy seed muffins and a half a loaf of French bread. He plugged in his coffee pot and turned on the light.
"This is all going for my girls," said the sailor, who is 78 years old. He was referring to the prostitutes and other street dwellers who stroll the sidewalks below his window or make their homes in the nearby back alleys in abandoned buildings. 
 "Let's see," he said, "there's Susan, she's on the street with no place to go. Big fat Pat, she's been living in empty buildings for 25 years. Roseann, she's in her 50's and always getting kicked around by all those animals. Denise, she's on the needle real bad."
He paused and rubbed his yellow beard. "And oh Jesus Lord Christ, then there's Margo. She's the worst one. She'll steal you blind."
The sailor, formerly with the merchant marine, is a fixture within the street world of the city's downtown district. Stocky and tattooed, he survives on a modest Social Security check and whatever he can sell or hustle through the well-routed underground economy.
 
Making the Rounds
 Almost every day he makes his rounds with a pushcart collecting from trash containers a bounty of discards that he often gives away to those down on their luck. He gets European bread and pastries from the bistros that line Chapel Street, fruit and vegetables from a Korean grocery and meat from street vendors. "My toilet paper comes from Yale University," he added.
At the end of a semester, as Yale students move out of their dormitories, he waits by the nearby trash containers where he's garnered mattresses, portable refrigerators and wall hangings. To protect his stash, he fastens a makeshift blackjack to the inside of his pant leg. "You've always got to watch your back," he said.
Mr. O'Donnell said he survived the streets and the high seas because of his penchant for blarney and adeptness for living outside the law. As a lifelong renegade he said he has robbed banks, jewelry stores and package stores as well as broken into safes, picked pockets and forged checks. "I was also a drunk," he said.
 
Multi-National Convict
 His machinations brought about dozens of jail stints including ones in South Africa, Japan and Thailand, he said. He served his last prison term at Somers Correctional Institution in the early 1980's after he was convicted on several charges of forgery and theft. He was paroled to a home-release program through the Y.M.C.A. on Howe Street, where he lived for six years before moving in 1990 to the rooming house on Park Street two blocks away.
All the 12 men who live there survive on welfare assistance or Social Security checks. They cook on hot plates and share a hallway bathroom. The sailor's room is by far the homiest and most evocative.
"Take off your coat," he said to a recent visitor. "Don't worry, I won't dig through your pockets."
 
By the Heat of a Popcorn Popper
 Rosaries dangled from window shelves, and collages of nude women as well as ceramic dolls, stuffed animals and hangings of schooners decorated other surfaces. Walls were covered with Christmas wrapping paper that he had hung with staples. Five stereo speakers, six radios and two television sets were scattered about. Whenever it got too cold he would plug in a popcorn popper to take the chill out of the room. "If you're a bum, you've got to be innovative," said the sailor.
A white plastic bucket filled with soapy water sat on one side of the room. He said he used it to wash the clothes of the women who visited him. He was not in love with any of them, he said, they were more like fair-weather friends.
Across the hall, Manuel Borrero, a soft-spoken man who recently underwent double-bypass surgery, was cooking a vegetable stew. Down the hall, Herman Martinez sat and watched two televisions at once while he boiled a slab of pork on a hot plate. In the room below the sailor lived a young man who was a drug addict with AIDS. At night, Mr. O'Donnell said, he could hear the man's screams. The only time the man left the building was to get a shot of heroin, the sailor said.
 
The Mean Streets
 While the sailor told a story about the time he got shot "five times by a hit man for the Mafia" for robbing one of its restaurants, a woman named Susan staggered through his door. "Word out on the street is that Margo's dead," she said, then fell into a chair.
The sailor hardly blinked. "I knew she was headed for deep trouble," he said.
Susan, who has been drinking, had heard that Margo, who lived on the streets, had bought a $20 bag of heroin for $10 and "never cleared her account." Margo was known on the streets for stealing, the young woman said, and when the drug dealers caught up to her they "beat her all the way down Chapel Street, then ran over her with a car." Stories of beatings and murder over drugs often circulated through the streets, said the sailor, and it always took time for the truth to surface.
Susan, who is 26 years old, said she had been living on the streets for six years. She was an alcoholic and heroin addict, she said, and was trying to get into a methadone program. She made her living by panhandling and by borrowing money from friends.
 
Without Him, 'I'd Be Dead'
 Susan had known the sailor for three years, ever since he moved to Park Street from the Y.M.C.A. He washed her clothes and gave her money when she needed it. "He's an old salt," the young woman said, throwing her arm around his shoulders. "Without the sailor, I'd be dead."
But there was a dark side to his character, she added, and when it surfaced he could be moody and irascible. "I wish I had a bag of dope for every time he's thrown me out of here," she said.
She stood up and announced that she's going out to panhandle to buy some more wine. "I won't hear it," the sailor snapped, and handed her $2. The young woman staggered out the door.
 
One of 18 Children
 The sailor said he was raised in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., one of 18 children. His mother died while she was carrying her 19th child, he said, after being struck by a bus. His father worked in the coal mines and to make ends meet ran a speakeasy in the basement of their home. Mr. O'Donnell said he and his brothers began stealing as children to help support the family. "We'd steal coal, food, anything we could get our hands on then," he said. "You had to. Times were hard."
At 16 he was sent to a reformatory school for stealing. For months, he said, he was assigned to work in the field with two plow horses until one day he led them to a trough, wrote a note to his guardian that read, "see you later," and ran away to Philadelphia. It was 1939.
He joined the merchant marine and for the next 30 years sailed around the world dozens of times, usually during eight-month shifts. He towed every cargo imaginable, he said, and during World War II worked on patrol boats and carried munitions, food and supplies to operations in the Atlantic and Pacific. He also sailed on the Liberty ships, which were considered the workhorses of the seas. "There's nothing more wicked than sailing the North Atlantic," he said. "For weeks afterwards you'd be walking sideways."
While he was landbound he stayed in seamen's homes until he was called out to sea. He moved to New Haven in the mid-1960's.
 
Rob Them and Leave Them
 He had a daughter and a son from his first marriage, both of whom are now in their late 30's. His daughter, he said, drove a municipal bus in New Haven. Over the years, other women showed an interest in him, but he rarely reciprocated the feelings. "I'd promise them, rob them, then leave them," he said.
The true love of his life was his second wife, Betty, with whom he spent 15 years before she died of jaundice in 1978. He still carries her picture inside a heart-shaped locket. She was a hard drinker, he said, and spent much of her time on the New Haven green with other alcoholics. Many times he'd have to go to her rescue before the police would arrive and "cart all the drunks away in a fire truck with brass railings."
But despite her problem with alcohol, the sailor said, "She was a nice drunk and a good dancer, too." She often brought destitute people up to their apartment on Howe Street, in order to feed and clothe them. She was buried on Valentine's Day, he said, and every year on that day, "I get drunker than a pig."
He often longed for those days, he said, adding that the streets are much meaner now and devoid of trust. He said there was a respect among alcoholics in those days that you don't find now among drug addicts. He had good friends then too, he said, people you could count on. "But all the oldtimers are dead now," he said. "Nature Boy, Joe Ryan, the Coogans, all of them are gone."
 
Accomplice Named Friskie
 The next day, the sailor was sitting on his bed weaving nautical knots from a piece of twine. He was worried, he said, because his friend Susan had just stopped by after spending the night in jail. She'd gotten into a fight with a man named Canine. "She left here crying a while ago," he said. The temperature outside was falling and there was no telling what might happen to her. He said he still didn't know for sure if Margo was dead.
It didn't take long befor the sailor broke out other stories from his past, like the one about how he used to be a bootlegger on Howe Street by buying up cheap wine and selling it on Sundays. He'd reel the bottles down in a plastic crate with a rope while customers stood in the alleyway. Then he told the one about his dog named Friskie; he had trained her to bury the wallets from people he had pickpocketed.
"After the cops would frisk me, come up empty-handed and leave," he said, "I'd give a whistle and say, 'fetch me the bone, Friskie,' and she'd return with the cash."
That afternoon he was preparing to go on his Dumpster rounds, then come home to watch television. He said he liked Sally Jessy Raphael's talk show best because of the offbeat people that appeared on her program.
The sailor broke into a toothless grin and held out his hand. "You come see me anytime," he said to his visitor. "And make sure you tell everybody that I'm a good Catholic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sailor Joe O'Donnell in his New Haven room. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (74%); THAILAND (50%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN) UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (74%); THAILAND (50%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRISONS (86%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); BAKED GOODS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (76%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (75%); RETAILERS (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); RELIGION (66%); COUNTERFEITING (62%); LARCENY & THEFT (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%); 

PERSON: O'DONNELL, JOE; O'DONNELL, JOE (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); RIERDEN, ANDI

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1993



385 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: New in the 2d Grade: Business Education

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
FOR 74 years, Junior Achievement has taught teen-agers about business, but last year its volunteer adult executives appeared in second-grade classrooms. They came with programs intended to give students as young as kindergarteners hands-on lessons in the basic skills they will need to become part of the future work force.
Too young, one might think, to understand things like decision-making or an assembly production line. Not so, said Leigh J. Abrams, the chairman of the Westchester County division of Junior Achievement of the Hudson Valley, which celebrated its 20th anniversary last month. The programs, he said, give young children incentives to learn. 
 "Studies show that potential dropouts can be identified as early as the second grade," Mr. Abrams said. "In response, the kindergarten-through-sixth-grade program was developed after years of research to reach young, at-risk students early and teach them the benefits of staying in school."
The Westchester division, he said, was one of the first in the country selected for the pilot program last year.
"It received such rave reviews from teachers and business people that we expanded it from 2,500 to 5,000 students this year," Mr. Abrams said. "By the 1995-96 school year, we hope to reach 10,000 students in our area, especially those in urban school districts, so students there who are most at risk of dropping out will have Junior Achievement programs available every year from kindergarten through the 12th grade."
 
The Skills They'll Need
 Angela D. Giustino, president of Junior Achievement of the Hudson Valley, said the program's objective is to introduce elementary students to the economic concept of choice and interdependence and to help make them aware of the wide range of jobs open to them and the skills they will need to fill those jobs.
John Pagliaroli, a New York Telephone customer service manager in Yonkers, spends an hour a week with the second-grade class at the Midland School in Yonkers.
"I begin by telling the kids what I do for a living, and that leads us into a discussion of the different kinds of jobs," said Mr. Pagliaroli, who was also a volunteer in the pilot program.
"I start the program by showing them how a community operates so they will be aware of how people live and work together," he said. "I use a map with pictures of public buildings, stores and other buildings, and we identify the variety of occupations held by people in the community and we talk about what skills are needed for the different jobs."
Hands-on activities are a big part of the program, Mr. Pagliaroli said. "In the Sweet-O-Factory, a simulation of a commercial doughnut factory, kids are introduced to the economic concepts of production, and they learn to work cooperatively," he said. "They start by coloring doughnuts individually and then they form an assembly line where each child colors only one part of the doughnut, using crayons that stand for yellow, brown and red flavors.
"Over the course of the program, you see the kids begin to understand the value and importance of work and the kinds of work people do, plus the skills they need to do different jobs."
 
An Award-Winning Recruiter
 Barbara A. Squires, office systems administration manager at I.B.M.'s corporate headquarters in Armonk, has been a Junior Achievement volunteer at the Somers Middle School for five years.
"I enjoy the work with children so much that I have won an award this year for recruiting the largest number of my peers as volunteers, eight from I.B.M. this year," Mrs. Squires said. "I work with eighth graders, 13-year-olds, and invariably the first question they ask me when we begin evaluating careers is, 'How much can I make and how fast can I make it?' "
The eight-week program deals with the relationship of school subjects to careers, she said.
"They make the connection between the skills acquired in school and those needed to succeed in the outside world," she said. "We use hands-on learning experience to demonstrate such things as how to handle money, the importance of responsibility and dependability.
 
The Hard Part of Selling
 "In one activity, for example, I set up a mock Disney World, and everyone has to apply for a job. Everyone gets a job, and they individually learn to deal with the situations that might arise on the job."
Junior Achievement's programs have also been adapted to the economics course now required of seniors in the state's high schools.
Every Friday, Michael Maloney, a banker at the Hudson Valley Bank in Yonkers, and Charles Gutekunst, a computer information-systems manager at the Yonkers Contracting Company, teach seniors in Jeffrey Roberts's economics class at Gorton High School in Yonkers about business.
"We study textbook economics four days a week, and the fifth day it's hands-on experience in economics," Mr. Roberts said. "With help and advice from the volunteers, the students sell stock to create a company, elect company officers and choose a product. One of our classes picked boxer shorts to sell, the other crystal pendants. Eventually, the company is closed down, and the profits are divided among the students."
The students, Mr. Roberts said, were surprised to find out how difficult it is to sell.
"At first they were very confident that selling would be a snap, the easiest part of the operation," he said. "However, although the crystal pendants were a popular item, the boxer shorts were difficult to sell. But the students persevered, and eventually both companies made a profit, and all of them got dividend checks. For some, it was the first time they had seen a check."
 
Volunteers Benefit, Too
 Such firsthand experience in business, Mr. Roberts said, can significantly reduce the dropout rate for students in urban areas by supplying them with activities that have tangible results and lessons that relate to the real world.
Mr. Abrams, who owns Drew Industries, a building-products manufacturing company in White Plains, is also an executive volunteer at the Woodlands High School in Greenburgh.
"I believe the volunteers get as much out of the experience as the students," Mr. Abrams said. "I've been doing it for years now. It's rewarding to me to see how kids with little prior contact with the business world quickly and enthusiastically learn the ropes."
Other lessons are also learned. The students on one project -- designing and selling T-shirts with a "Peace Throughout the World" logo -- had to make an ethical decision when the supplier sent them more T-shirts than they had ordered, he said.
"The class debated whether or not to call it to his attention," he said. "They had ordered 150 T-shirts and he sent them 165, but 11 were damaged. They did tell the supplier, and he told them that because it was his error, they could keep the extra shirts without charge. They eventually made a 300 percent profit on the business."
Junior Achievement programs cost the schools nothing, Ms. Giustino said, adding: "We have no government funding. We are entirely supported by corporate contributions, foundations, special fund-raising events, individual gifts and the work of our executive volunteers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Pagliaroli, a New York Telephone customer service manager and a volunteer in the Junior Achievement program, spends an hour a week as a volunteer with the second-grade class at the Midland School in Yonkers. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT INC NEW YORK TELEPHONE CO (55%); JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (94%); JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT INC JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (94%); JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (63%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY LEIGH J ABRAMS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1993



386 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Crisis

BYLINE: By Richard Pipes; Richard Pipes, professor of history at Harvard, is author of "The Russian Revolution."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Russia faces three options: it can continue to progress, however haltingly, toward democracy and a free market, relapse into some form of dictatorship, or dissolve in anarchy.
Contrary to conventional wisdom, the economy has not caused the present crisis: While it is far from satisfactory, nobody is starving and private initiative is beginning to fill the vacuum created by the breakdown of state ownership. There is food in stores, public transport is running, telephones are operating. Life goes on. 
 Russia's problems have always been first and foremost political, and today's predicament is no different. We are witnessing an attempt by the old Communist nomenklatura, or ruling class, to recapture power and the privileges that went with it, while using the parlous state of the economy as a pretext.
Led by an ambitious adventurer, Ruslan Khasbulatov, the chairman of the unrepresentative body called the Congress of People's Deputies, it is trying to gain by parliamentary maneuvering what it failed to acquire by military power in August 1991. It is a clever ploy because it conceals a bid for dictatorial authority behind claims of the defense of parliamentary democracy. The stratagem has sown confusion among Western leaders, taught by historical experience to side with parliament against individuals aspiring to personal power.
In this case, the conflict does not pit a duly elected legislative against a power-greedy chief executive. It is the President who has been democratically elected while the Congress is a largely self-appointed body dating to the Soviet Union. It is Boris Yeltsin who represents the nation. The proof is that the Congress has reneged on its pledge to hold a referendum next month in which, among other things, voters would be asked to decide whether they preferred presidential or parliamentary government. If Mr. Yeltsin's opponents thought they could win, they would have insisted on such a referendum.
In recent months, Russia has had, as in 1917, a dual Government in which authority has been exercised independently by the executive and legislature. This situation obviously cannot endure, and that is why the conflict has come to a head.
In the best of all worlds for the conservatives, who are mostly diehard Communists, they would remove Mr. Yeltsin and vest executive power in a parliamentary cabinet. If pushed, they might acquiesce to a ceremonial head of state. Presidential rule, they maintain, is alien to Russia (which is true) whose traditional form of government is the democratic collective (which is ludicrous).
They are emulating the tactic used by Lenin and Trotsky in October 1917, who accused Kerensky of dictatorial ambitions and demanded that he yield power to the Congress of Soviets, which they had packed with their own followers. A true dictatorship followed.
Should they succeed, Mr. Yeltsin's conservative opponents are unlikely to restore full-fledged Communism: The system has disintegrated too far for this to be a realistic alternative. They are more likely to follow the Romanian pattern, which retains the substance of Communism under different labels. This would entail restricting political and press freedom and introducing the so-called regulated market. They would probably make use of Russian troops deployed in the independent republics and in the guise of protecting the Russian minorities and maintaining regional "stability" attempt to re-establish the empire. And they would resume the arms race to regain Russia's superpower status.
Could they succeed? No, for two reasons. Most Russians, judging by opinion polls, even though disappointed by democracy have no desire for a dictatorship. A counter-revolution would unleash social and ethnic turmoil with which the putschists, even if initially successful, could not cope.
Moreover, Mr. Yeltsin is no vacillating Kerensky but a formidable politician, unwilling to be reduced to a figurehead let alone be displaced from power. Ill-suited to routine administration, impulsive and feisty, he is at his best when fighting for his political life. He has tried to assuage his opponents by numerous concessions, but they have interpreted each concession as a sign of weakness and an excuse to demand more until there is nothing left to concede.
To build his political base, Mr. Yeltsin has negotiated with moderately conservative groups and made some inroads into their camp. He has made contact with the military, which holds the key to any decisive power struggle. He makes no secret that he has been laying the groundwork for the imposition of emergency rule, which would enable him to continue political and economic reforms. His repeated warnings to this effect are no bluff.
If he takes this road, Mr. Yeltsin is much less likely to establish a personal dictatorship, which would make him very vulnerable, than to create a strong executive based on a popular mandate. This he will probably seek through a referendum held in defiance of the Congress in which voters will be asked to approve the presidential form of government, with its strong executive, and then convene a constituent assembly to give the country a democratic constitutional charter.
He should have taken such measures a year ago, when the memory of the failed August putsch was fresh and the conservative apparatus, paralyzed with fear, lay low.
The West's leverage is not formidable. Economic aid, on which some advocates of intervention rely, is not very relevant -- no more than it would have been in 1917, because at issue now, as then, is political power, not the economy. Even large-scale transfers of capital and food will not save the nascent democracy if the Russian people are not prepared to stand up and fight for it.
The most helpful thing the West can do is to throw the full weight of its support behind Mr. Yeltsin, for even reactionary Communists are sensitive to the prospect of international isolation and its economic implications. It is a welcome sign that after initial hesitation, Washington seems to have realized that the success of democracy in Russia may require resort to methods that in the West would be unacceptable. It should persist in this course and not allow itself to be misled by the putschists' professions that they are fighting for the cause of representative government against a would-be dictator.
Exactly like the Bolsheviks in 1917, they are exploiting populist slogans to camouflage a bid for authoritarian rule. Their success would be fraught with the gravest dangers to their own people and the rest of the world.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STARVATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); PIPES, RICHARD BORIS YELTSIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993



387 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
BLAME FOR SALVADORAN KILLINGS 
 A United Nations-sponsored investigation has found military officers responsible for the killings of thousands of civilians during El Salvador's civil war, including Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero. A1
 
Salvadoran leader will seek amnesty for those named. A9
 
EGYPTIAN MINORITY UNDER SIEGE
In a striking example of the power of Muslim fundamentalists, nearly 10 million Coptic Christians in Egypt, the largest religious minority in the Middle East and one of its most ancient, are under siege. A1
 
CHINA OPENS NATIONAL CONGRESS
China's National People's Congress opens its annual session today to amend the Constitution and shuffle Government leaders, part of a grand effort by Deng Xiaoping to prod the country further in the direction of a market economy. A2
 
BOMBAY RECOVERING FROM BLASTS
Workers restored power and telephone lines to prepare for the reopening today of the Bombay Stock Exchange, which was struck on Friday by one of a string of blasts that killed more than 250 people. A2
 
SHADOW CAST ON RUSSIA'S FUTURE
News Analysis: The failure of the Russian Congress to find a workable compromise raises questions not only about President Yeltsin's political future and economic reforms but also about the very survival of the Russian Federation. A6
 
MYSTERY OF OUTBREAK UNRAVELED
One of the mysteries of the cold war was at least partly resolved with the publication of a paper unraveling some of the secrets of a sudden deadly outbreak of anthrax in April 1979 in Siberia. A6
 
SERBS CAPTURE BOSNIAN VALLEY
Serbian forces backed by tanks and artillery overran the Konjevic valley in Bosnia, pushing Muslims who had sought refuge across a mountain track into Srebrenica, United Nations officials said. A3
 
BOSNIA ISSUES TERMS FOR TREATY
Driven by fears that more Muslims will die in "ethnic cleansing" offensives by Serbian forces, the Bosnian Government agreed to conditions under which it would accept an international peace plan. A3
 
U.S. PEACE PLAN FOR ANGOLA
The Administration has presented Angola with a plan to end its civil war, proposing a cease-fire and disarmament of both sides, then a runoff Presidential election. A5
 
LETTERS TO ROMEO'S BRIDE
Verona Journal: Letters from the lovelorn addressed to Juliet arrive in the northern Italian city of Shakespearean fame. A4
 
National A10-16
 
STORM HITS SOUTH HARDEST
The big blizzard was probably cruelest to the region that was least prepared to handle it. The storm lashed the South with hurricane-force winds, tornadoes and heavy snow, and caused scores of deaths. A1
 
WHERE HAVE THE JOBS GONE?
The standard American job, with a 40-hour workweek, medical benefits and a pension at age 65, seems to be on the wane. The growth of temporary work is taking a cruel toll on job seekers. A1
 
PEROT'S PUZZLING PATH
Independent or maverick Presidential challengers usually fade after an initial bright burn in a single election. But Ross Perot is clearly not fading, surprising political professionals of both parties. Still, it is far from clear what Mr. Perot ultimately has in mind. A10
 
WHAT PRICE SURRENDER?
The remaining 105 people inside the besieged Branch Davidian compound in Texas showed some sign of weakening, asking what charges they might face upon surrender, Federal agents said. A10
 
ADVISER OUTLASTS HER CRITICS
When Laura Tyson was named head of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, the reaction in Washington was quick -- and nasty. But the tumble of recent events has helped the Berkeley economics professor get over the uncomfortable episode. A14
 
The new Housing Secretary settles in at HUD. A13
 
THE COSTS OF HEALTH
President Clinton has condemned a "shocking" rise in the price of vaccines, and the costs of production and research and development do not seem to justify the huge increase, experts say. Nonetheless, vaccines are a bargain compared with other medicines. A16
 
Metro Digest B1
 
NEW YORK REGION DIGS OUT
A snowbound New York region and the Northeast emerged from the Blizzard of '93 with surprisingly little damage and began preparing for what was expected to be a relatively smooth commuter rush. A1
 
MORE TURMOIL FOR THE POST
The New York Post's precarious existence grew more precarious yesterday, as its latest editor quit in a confrontation with the newest owner, the newsroom fell into chaos, this morning's edition was jeopardized and unions and top managers joined together in resisting a court-approved takeover of the newspaper by Abraham Hirschfeld. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Fashion Page C20
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
Mike Nichols speaks out. C13
 
Problems at the Bonn Opera. C13
 
Music: Marsalis's blues. C13
 
New-music marathon. C18
 
Dance: Notes and news C13
The Alberta Ballet. C16
 
Word and Image:
Two whimsical novels. C17
 
Sports C1-4,6-10,12
Baseball: Strawberry speaks his mind. C9
 
Yanks pencil in Bernie Williams in center. C9
 
Basketball: Seton Hall wins Big East title. C1
 
Carolina, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan are top-seeded. C1
 
Georgia Tech upsets North Carolina. C7
 
Elite conferences control women's pairings. C6
 
Knicks beat Pacers. C3
 
Nets were near-perfect against the Suns. C3
 
Boxing: Carbajal revels in flyweight title. C8
 
Columns: Vecsey on Karnishovas C7
 
Figure Skating: Americans come home without a medal. C10
 
Golf: Comeback by Couples wins Honda. C2
 
Hockey: Penguins beat Islanders. C10
 
Horse Racing: Devil His Due is upset winner. C10
 
Tennis: Jim Courier and the game of life. C2
 
Track and Field: Reynolds takes gold in Toronto. C10
 
Obituaries B8
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
The generals' shrinking threat.
 
The N.R.A., wounded.
 
This cable connects Connecticut.
 
Topics: Something works
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Making a difference.
 
William Safire: The balancing Czech.
 
Nerys Patterson and Orlando Patterson: St. Patrick was a slave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EGYPT (94%); SERBIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); INDIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (75%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EGYPT (94%); SERBIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); INDIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (75%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEATHER (84%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); WORK WEEK (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); HURRICANES (68%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%); ANTHRAX (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); AMNESTY (57%); STOCK EXCHANGES (53%); 

PERSON: DENG XIAOPING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



388 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2499 words

HEADLINE: Muslims' Fury Falls on Egypt's Christians

SERIES: Cornered By Fervor -- A Special Report

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, March 14

 BODY:
In a striking example of the power of Muslim fundamentalists, nearly 10 million Coptic Christians in Egypt, the largest religious minority in the Middle East and one of its most ancient, are under siege.
Copts from all walks of life are being attacked, robbed and killed by roving bands of fundamentalists. Churches are regularly vandalized and sometimes burned, prompting the Government to place virtually all them under police guard. 
 As Islamic fundamentalism has become a rallying cry for opposition groups throughout the Arab world, Christian Arabs have come under pressure that in the last few years has vastly diminished their political, social and economic status in Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Syria and among Palestinians in the territories occupied by Israel. As a result, hundreds of thousands have emigrated to the United States, Canada, Western Europe and Australia.
 
Fundamentalists' Targets
 The sharpening hostility toward Christian Arabs is a byproduct of a wider Muslim fundamentalist challenge that began in the late 1970's. Militants have made secularist Arab governments their targets, including those of Syria, Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria and Jordan, as well as pro-Western fundamentalist nations like Saudi Arabia and others in the Persian Gulf.
The movement, which encompasses many groups, has gradually widened its targets to include Western interests regarded as a natural extension of secular modernization. Hostages were taken in Beirut by Muslim fundamentalists with close ties to Iran, where an Islamic Government came to power in 1979. Bombs planted by fundamentalist immigrants recruited from abroad shook France. Western airliners were hijacked and destroyed.
Now the United States may have become a target, too, as investigators pursue leads suggesting that Muslim fundamentalists were connected to the bombing of the World Trade Center in New York last month.
In Egypt, the Arab world's largest country, it is the little-known Christian minority that has become the main victim of Muslim violence.
Copts are reckoned to be a link to Egypt's Pharaonic past, direct descendants of the original inhabitants of the country. The word "Copt" has its origins in a Greek word meaning Egyptian. Christianity came to Egypt in the year 41, and the Coptic church was among the so-called Oriental churches that split with Rome in 451 in a theological dispute. After the Islamic Arab invasion of the seventh century, many Copts eventually converted to Islam.
The assaults against Copts, which have claimed 150 to 200 lives, are part of a strategy to bring down the Government of President Hosni Mubarak in favor of an Islamic republic like that in Iran. Militants hope to destabilize the country with the violence, which has also claimed victims among Muslim Government officials and security forces. In October, foreign tourists were added to the list of targets in an effort to devastate the tourism industry, which is crucial to the Egyptian economy.
Among the Muslim leaders who have called for attacks on Christians and others is Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the exiled Egyptian cleric who lives in New York. Sheik Rahman, who was tried and acquitted in the assassination of President Anwar el-Sadat by fundamentalists in 1981, and who calls for the overthrow of the Egyptian Government, has preached at mosques in Jersey City and Brooklyn to which suspects in the World Trade Center bombing have been linked.
Most Egyptians, including Copts, believe the Egyptian Government can contain fundamentalist violence here. But a majority of Christians and the Coptic Church leadership argue that the Government fosters a climate of religious intolerance that encourages violence against them. Benign neglect and pointed discrimination against Copts have been practiced by successive Egyptian Governments, including that of Mr. Mubarak, many Copts assert.
 
High Posts Denied Them
 In the last two decades, Christian Egyptians have been systematically eliminated from positions as Cabinet ministers, army officers, police officials, governors, bankers, parliamentary representatives and university professors.
In what many Copts see as one of most blatant examples of sanctioned discrimination, archaic laws from the Ottoman Empire have been used to ban the construction of new churches and the repair of ancient ones for nearly 30 years, severely constraining the practice of Christianity in Egypt and placing a rich heritage of centuries-old monasteries, churches and icons at risk.
A climate of fear and rejection has become pervasive enough that many Coptic women, abandoning a practice followed since Christianity came to Egypt nearly 2,000 years ago, refrain from displaying crosses. In Cairo, Christian schools have raised the walls surrounding them by several feet for added protection. At public schools, Christian children complain they learn nothing of their religion and are often insulted, ostracized or humiliated by militant Muslim teachers.
"We are living through moments of terror," said Sabri Khalil Ghabrial, a 37-year-old surgeon in El Minya, a city in southern Egypt. "There are days when you go into the streets not knowing what may happen to you."
Dr. Ghabrial narrowly escaped being taken hostage by fundamentalist students when he was studying medicine a few years ago at Asyut University, 100 miles south of El Minya. His uncle was shot and wounded in his pharmacy in December in Dairut, a small town in the region.
 
The Violence
Attacks in City And Countryside
 The attacks on Christians began in southern Egypt, a fiercely conservative, emotionally combustible region whose people have strong ties to the land going back centuries. In the 1980's and 90's the attacks moved to large urban centers up the Valley of the Nile, including the capital, Cairo.
Amid almost weekly reports of violence against Christians, a massacre in Dairut stood out as a particularly shocking example. On May 4, 1991, a group of Muslims mowed down 13 Christian peasants with machine-gun fire as they tilled their lands outside the village. Three other Copts were killed in town, one a doctor who was tending to a patient in his clinic.
Last October in the village of Tema, about 90 miles south of El Minya, 4 Christians were killed with axes in their homes by Muslims. The fundamentalists returned in greater numbers the next day and burned 64 houses and dozens of stores owned by Christians as well as a church before the police and firemen showed up.
Attacks claiming scores of victims have also taken place in Cairo, Alexandria, Faiyum and other large cities.
"In the face of these assaults the Government's reaction was always coming in too late after the people are killed, after the houses have burned down and the churches sacked," said Antoun Sidhom, editor and publisher of Watani, a weekly Coptic newspaper. "They never offered to pay compensation or provided credible comfort to their Christian citizens."
In many ways, some Copts say, the ultimate shock came in October, after a British tourist was killed in an attack. The Government, mindful that tourism was its single largest source of foreign revenue last year, bringing in $3.5 billion to $4 billion, began a huge security sweep that is still under way, resulting in the arrests of thousands of suspected militants.
Many Christians took this response as a chilling message.
"It is as if the Government is telling everyone, 'It's O.K. if you munch on little Copts, but don't touch the tourists,' " said Mr. Sidhom, one of a growing number of wealthy, eminent Copts who are publicly addressing discrimination.
In another crackdown last week, 21 people were killed and two dozen were wounded in raids by security forces in Cairo and Aswan. A mosque in Aswan was raided as the police searched for the gunmen who had killed one soldier and wounded another as they were guarding a church.
 
The Fundamentalists
Pluralism Rejected As a Western Idea

The wave of fundamentalist militancy began early in the 1970's, after the Government of Mr. Sadat, seeking a counterweight to a challenge from left-wing Arab nationalists, released hundreds of militant Muslims who had been jailed for much of the previous two decades. Among the Muslim groups that surged into action in that period was the Muslim Brotherhood, which was founded in 1928 and which advocates the taking of power by legitimate political means.
But a much bigger variety of militants, estimated in the tens of thousands and organized under disparate groups with names like Islamic Holy War, also mushroomed. Made up of tiny cells of fundamentalist extremists, they were united in the conviction that the use of force to push Egyptian society toward Islamic rule was a religious duty. Pluralism, they insist, is a decadent Western notion.
Copts were called infidels, natural allies of the hated Western enemies of Islam. Some fundamentalist preachers went so far as to issue religious edicts justifying the shedding of Christian blood as "halal." The Koranic expression roughly translates as "fair game." A result was a growing climate of religious intolerance.
The condition of Christians in Egypt today is a far cry from a golden Coptic era before World War I, when Boutros Ghali Pasha, a Copt and great-grandfather of Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations, was named Prime Minister. Even through the 1940's and 50's, the proportion of Copts in official posts exceeded their proportion of the population. Copts were among Egypt's large landowners, and many were leading members of the Wafd, Egypt's most popular political party before a military coup in 1952 ended the monarchy. Copts have also figured prominently in the evolution of Egyptian and Arab arts, theater and scholarship.
Yet today, even though Christians represent about 17 percent of Egypt's population of 58 million, not one of the 26 provincial governors is Christian. No senior army, police or Government official of any consequence is a Copt. In Parliament, representation of Copts, which peaked at 10 percent in the 1940's, is down to less than 1 percent, a handful of token appointments made by the President.
 
The Church
Some Copts Fault Leaders' Stand
 Part of their trouble, some Copts say, is that their church has turned inward under its present leadership, encouraging the faithful to embrace a posture of patience and prayer instead of social and political activism.
"Today's Coptic Church is suffering from sclerosis," said Amin Faheem, president of the Christian Association of Upper Egypt for Schools Promotion, a charity that runs 38 schools. "It is under dogmatic influence pushing away the more secularists among Christian dignitaries to replace them with theocrats of its own."
Magdi Mehani, a manager for the association in El Minya, said: "What we need here is to find a way to resume the dialogue with Muslims, a peaceful offensive if you will, to break this violent atmosphere. We must save Egypt from extremism. As Copts we must break the isolation being imposed on us."
Many Copts, perhaps half a million in the last 10 years, have simply left. They include a large number of university professors, professionals and wealthy businessmen. From their diaspora in places like the United States and Canada, some are trying to call the world's attention to the Coptic plight while pressing the Coptic Church to be more active.
"They don't call it the church of martyrdom for nothing," said Selim Naguib, a 58-year-old Coptic high court judge in Montreal whose doctoral thesis on Copts represented their situation as a "grave case of human right violations being systematically perpetrated by the Government." Mr. Neguib's Canadian Coptic Association is trying to bring the matter before the United Nations.
"At meetings in church, people often ask me until when are we going to watch silently as they burn our churches and kill our people," said Bishop Arsanious, the 63-year-old religious leader of the Christian communities of Minya Province, whose population of two million is about 20 percent Christian.
The Coptic Church leadership rejects a confrontational approach, arguing that while these are indeed hard times for Christian Arabs they are not the hardest.
"You are looking at the past year or 10 years -- I am looking at 1,900 years of Coptic history," said Father Aghaton, secretary to the supreme religious leader of Egypt's Copts, Pope Shenuda III. "We have gone though horrendous periods of oppression but here we are, strong, well educated and present. The facts are that all the Copts can do is hunker down in bad times and wait until the oppression lifts."
 
The Government
New Mosques, But Not Churches
 While the Administration of President Mubarak is largely secularist and liberal, it has shown increasing deference to Islamic fundamentalists since its beginnings in October 1981, granting many hard-liners space in the official press and yielding to fundamentalist edicts and practices in schools, public administration and business.
Coptic critics say the Government has at the same time gone out of its way to limit various aspects of Christian culture and practices.
According to Government figures, for example, about 125,000 unauthorized mosques and Muslim places of prayer have been built in the last 10 years by Muslims, including militants who control many of these gathering places. In that period, using laws dating from the Ottoman Empire, the Government has consistently denied permission for the construction of more than a handful of churches or the repair of most.
Government officials, who reject talk of an official policy of discrimination against Christians, say that these developments reflect the fierce winds of fundamentalism blowing throughout the region and fanned by militant Muslim nations like Iran and the Sudan in the last two years.
"Secularism has become a dirty word in the Muslim world," said Mamdouh El Beltagui, director of media and information for the Egyptian Government and head of the governing National Party for the Cairo region. "This is what we are up against."
But Mr. Beltagui and other senior Government officials also assert that change is on the way.
"For the first time the large silent centrist majority is feeling that Islamic fundamentalist currents are a threat to its interests, its income and its life style," Mr. Beltagui said. "There is a quantitative shift to the way Egyptian society feels on this issue now; people are no longer spectators."
But for Christians in Egypt, life under siege goes on.
Merim, a maid in a Cairo household with a tattooed green cross on her wrist and chin, as is customary with many Christians from Egypt's deep south, received her "slap of the day," as she put it, on the bus ride home on a recent evening. A man who got up from his seat barred her from taking it.
"It is reserved for Muslims," he told her.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coptic Christians in Egypt (Thomas Hartwell for The New York Times) (pg. A1); 1); Part of their trouble, some Copts say, is that their church has turned inward under its present leadership, encouraging the faithful to embrace a posture of patience and prayer instead of social and political activism. Women and men prayed separately during a recent service in Cairo. (Thomas Hartwell for The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Map of Egypt (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JORDAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); TUNISIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (88%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: JORDAN AS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; TUNISIA; EGYPT ; ALGERIA; JORDAN; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAN; FRANCE; UNITED STATES EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JORDAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); TUNISIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (88%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; COPTIC CHURCHES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; VIOLENCE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; HOSTAGES; TERRORISM; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) ; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; EXPLOSIONS RELIGION (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); FUNDAMENTALISM (94%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); VANDALISM (72%); ROBBERY (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (64%); TOURISM (60%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



389 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: New Jobs Lack the Old Security In a Time of 'Disposable Workers'

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOLEDO, Ohio, March 12

 BODY:
Employment agencies call them contingent workers, flexible workers or assignment workers. Some labor economists, by contrast, call them disposable and throwaway workers.
Whatever they are called, their numbers are climbing. Federal figures are sketchy, but about half of the jobs people have been getting in the last year are part-time or temporary or involve other unconventional arrangements. That is up from less than a quarter of the new jobs a decade ago. 
 Most of these new jobs pay less than regular jobs, and few come with good benefits. The standard American job, with a 40-hour workweek, medical benefits and a pension at age 65, is on the wane.
"The entire system has fragmented," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in an interview earlier this month.
 
'A Market in Motion'
 Audrey Freedman, an economist for Manpower, the big temporary-help company, said: "The labor market today, if you look at it closely, provides almost no long-term secure jobs. It's a market in motion."
As the Clinton Administration ponders changes in the nation's health and welfare systems, the shift in the job market takes on added importance, as it will have long-term implications for Government regulators and taxpayers.
Labor market specialists say the shift accelerated in the recession as companies tried to hold down costs. But they say that much of the shift seems here to stay.
 
Core of Favored Workers
 Many companies have adopted a form of work-force management to compete in the world market. They keep a core of managers and valued workers whom they favor with good benefits and permanent jobs. They take on and shed other workers as business spurts and slumps.
Toledo is home to glass and automobile companies which, while shrinking, are unionized and make little use of contingent workers. It is home, too, to expanding nonunion retail stores, service businesses and small manufacturers that do employ such workers.
State officials report a smattering of offers of very good jobs, requiring high skills and years of experience and paying $12 to $20 an hour, and a surge of offers for low-skill, low-paying jobs.
The area's biggest new employer is the Maijer (pronounced MY-er) discount food and department store chain of Grand Rapids, Mich. It is hiring nearly 3,000 workers for four giant stores it is building here. Nearly all the jobs are part-time and the pay is $4.30 to $4.40 an hour -- 5 cents to 15 cents more than the Federal minimum wage.
The second-biggest new employer is an air-cargo company, Burlington Air Express. Burlington will soon have more than 1,200 sorters working three-hour shifts five days a week. The pay is $8 an hour to start, or $120 a week. Burlington's job advertisements say applicants must "be able to lift 70 pounds consistently."
State officials say that companies have little choice but to pay wages as low as their competitors.
 
Quality Put in Jeopardy
 But industries that strive for quality production run a risk in managing workers this way. The employees have little incentive to give their all when the employer gives little.
"The people never stop looking for full-time employment," said Lin Avendano, an official of the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services. "And when they find it, they leave in an instant."
James J. O'Shea, the 50-year-old manager of a Toledo branch of the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services, put the problem in a personal perspective: "Opportunity -- that's the thing that was here in abundance when I was 18.
"The whole middle of the job market is gone, the $8-an-hour to $13-an-hour jobs. Those middle, family-supportive jobs we've lost."
In Toledo, about 25 temporary-help agencies have displaced most of the permanent-placement agencies. One is Claus Temporaries Inc., whose owner, Pete Claus, finds welders, assemblers, electricians and other workers for small factories as well as clerical workers for offices. Mr. Claus arranges with client companies to pay employees' wages, unemployment insurance and their workers' compensation. But the workers receive no health or pension benefits because, he said, the market would not bear the cost.
 
'New American Sweatshop'
 Mr. Claus said some companies in Toledo were using services like his to provide their entire work force. "I call it the new American sweatshop," he said. "It's four people who are owners or managers in a shop that has 200 people. They might have 12 permanent employees who are making $6.50 an hour. All the others are paid $4.75. And they're all temporaries."
Robert E. Soncrant, who recruits businesses to do their hiring through Mr. O'Shea's state job service office, cited another development. "You find unscrupulous employers who bring people in for 29 days and then let them go," he said. "Why 29 days? Because the employer has an agreement with the union that says that at 30 days the people have to join the union."
Just how many Americans are landing contingent jobs is impossible to pin down. Mr. Reich said he thought about 30 percent of the work force was composed of contingent workers while current statistics suggest that far more of the new jobs are.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics's employment report for February, showing a decline in unemployment to 7 percent of the nation's labor force from 7.1 percent in January, said part-time jobs accounted for 90 percent of the 380,000 new jobs in February. So large a figure is almost certainly a fluke, but it confirmed a less-pronounced, longer-term decline of conventional jobs.
Twenty-four percent of the 1.6 million new jobs since February 1992 were part-time. The University of Toledo reports that 30 percent of its graduates have to take contingent jobs, an uncommonly high proportion for college graduates. Three years ago, 10 percent of the graduates took contingent jobs.
Other numbers reflecting the growth of contingent workers are still murkier. The Bureau of Labor Statistics says another 24 percent of the 1.6 million new jobs represented growth in self-employment. An indeterminate part of the growth in self-employment includes consulting and independent contracting. The Internal Revenue Service offers one hint of what part of those might actually be contingent workers: Employers illegally classified 90,000 workers last year as self-employed contractors. For legitimate independent contractors, employers are not required to pay Social Security and unemployment and workers' compensation.
No one is keeping track of the temporary workers employed directly by companies, without intermediaries.
The bureau says its latest figures show that 1,456,000 people were working through temporary-help agencies in January, 206,000 more than in January 1992. The increase, said Thomas Nardone, a bureau economist, amounted to 30 percent of the jobs that employers reported filling during the year. "It's quite huge," he said.
No one knows how firm this trend is. As the economy improves and the pool of workers shrinks, employers might have to sweeten their terms. Nor is it clear how Government should deal with the trend. Some workers, especially high-paid consultants, welcome the independence. The jobs can be a boon to retirees, students and people with children at home.
 
The Toll on Job-Seekers
 Here in Toledo, though, the loss of old-fashioned jobs and the growth of contingent work is taking a cruel toll on many job seekers. Gordon Mills, 44, had a 40-hour-a-week, $6-an-hour job as the night auditor for a motel. But his back, injured in an earlier job, began bothering him and he took a two-month leave for therapy.
"I knew they had hired this girl to do the job," he said, "but I thought she was temporary. When I came back, they cut my hours to 16 and she was getting 24." He walked out and is now living on $343 a week in workers' compensation pay for his back injury. Mr. Mills has gone back to school to study accounting.
Toledo's new job market can even be rough on those who seem qualified for the better jobs. Nannette Keating, 40, separated and the mother of two children, 3 and 6, has a bachelor's degree in public administration from the University of Toledo. She worked many years in government jobs before she went to work for a private adoption agency. But as the economy declined, the agency lost its money, and she was laid off last April.
Eventually, Ms. Keating wants a good job, but for now she said she would settle for any kind of job. "I've applied at retail stores, food stores, outlet stores," she said. Despite the high turnover among such employers, she said they told her they knew she would quit for a better job, so they turned her away.
Norman J. Drzewiecki is 24, single, a graduate of Rogers High School here and living with his parents. Four years ago, with industrial jobs here fading, Mr. Drzewiecki joined the Air Force, where he was a laborer, delivery driver and shipping and receiving clerk.
Mr. Drzewiecki had planned to enroll in Air Force training to become a loadmaster handling air cargo. But with the Air Force shrinking, he was discharged in September.
He looked for work at Ohio Bell, where his father has worked for 39 years as a repairman. But he was turned away. He is collecting $195 a week in unemployment that Congress just voted to extend until October, so he says he can afford to keep looking for a career job.
 
Worry Over Temporary Offer
 The few jobs he found were temporary or part-time or both. One work offer was for 60 days to 150 days. "After that you don't know," Mr.Drzewiecki said. "I'd hate to get into a job, give it my best effort and after 150 days, they say: 'Thanks a lot. Here's your last paycheck.' "
The President's economic plan offers new spending for education and continuous job training to enable people to move from one good job to another. But with industry relying on contingent workers, who might provide those better jobs is uncertain.
The job trend also lends some urgency to the Administration's promises to overhaul the nation's pension and health-care systems. By denying contingent workers health and pension benefits, employers are shifting more of the burden of supporting the lowest-paid workers to the welfare system.
Richard S. Belous, vice president of the National Planning Association in Washington and author of a study of the phenomenon, said: "We've made our labor market more flexible. But we've done zilch about making the social welfare system flexible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I've applied at retail stores, food stores, outlet stores," said Nannette Keating, shown with her children, Keeley, left, and Kyle. Despite the high turnover among such employers, she said they told her they knew she would quit for a better job, so they turned her away. (Chris Walker for The New York Times) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (78%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: GRAND RAPIDS DIECRAFTS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (78%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (99%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (93%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RETAILERS (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (79%); MINIMUM WAGE (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); WORK WEEK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (62%); AIR FREIGHT (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



390 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Claims and Counterclaims on Vaccine Costs Generate Heat but Little Light

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
The price of a dose of the vaccine for whooping cough leaped from 19 cents in 1977 to $10.04 in 1992, and a dose of polio vaccine rose from $1 to $9.91. The cost of giving a child all the recommended immunizations rose more than 1,000 percent in the same period.
President Clinton has seized on these skyrocketing prices as he attempts to build political support for revamping the nation's health-care system, setting off a bitter fight with drug companies over what the figures mean: price gouging of citizens willing to pay anything for the health of their children, or an honest effort to insure a profit. 
 The President has condemned a "shocking" rise in the price of vaccines for children, suggesting it is in part due to the pharmaceutical industry's huge promotional budget.
 
Manufacturers Point to Tax
 Drug manufacturers counter that four-fifths of that increase actually resulted from the development of two new vaccines for children and a Federal excise tax imposed in 1988, which supports a fund for children who suffer from the rare but sometimes serious side effects of the shots. They say the President is misusing statistics.
Vaccine experts in ringside seats say that both sides are using numbers selectively to cast their positions in the most favorable light. Nonetheless, most agree that vaccine prices do seem inexplicably high.
"One wonders why prices have risen so much, particularly for vaccines that have been around for years," said Dr. Alan R. Hinman, director of prevention services at the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. "It's difficult to know how much a vaccine should cost, but I think that most of us think that prices have risen more than they ought to have."
 
Increases Before Tax
 The costs of production, research and development, and liability do not seem to justify the current prices, the experts say, and they point out that vaccines are generally cheaper overseas.
They add that in attributing rising prices to excise taxes and new vaccines, the manufacturers have performed some statistical wizardry of their own. The huge price increases in vaccines came before the tax went into effect, and many health economists consider the two new vaccines introduced since 1987, hepatitis B at $30.21 and a vaccine for meningitis at $60.52, to be overpriced.
Also, the excise tax supports a Federal program that relieves drug companies of liability for the side effect of vaccines, saving the companies tremendous expense.
"We had hoped to see a reduction in prices since parents are now paying their liability costs," said Jackie Noyes of the American Academy of Pediatrics. "In most cases all we've seen is some stabilization."
 
'We've Been Knocked'
 Vaccine manufacturers defend their charges. "We think we've been knocked very unfairly on promotion and clearly on price, for some political purpose," said Dr. R. Gordon Douglas, president of the Vaccine Division of Merck & Company. "Vaccines are very different from other pharmaceuticals. We do not have a lot of promotional expense and the public health benefits of vaccines are enormous."
While manufacturers acknowledge that vaccine prices rose sharply in the early 1980's they say they have leveled off in the last four years. Even at current prices, vaccines are a bargain compared with other medicines, they say, noting that two doses of the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine will protect against three serious diseases for a lifetime at a cost of just over $50.
 
Big and Quick Increases
 From 1977 to 1987 the companies raised prices rapidly, in part to improve profits that were considered too low and in part to cover the potential costs of lawsuits stemming from side effects. The measles, mumps and rubella vaccine jumped to $17.88 a dose in 1987, from $6.01 in 1977; the vaccine that protects against whooping cough, diphtheria and tetanus cost $8.92 in 1987, up from 19 cents in 1980.
Once the Government assumed the bulk of the liability for side effects in 1988, some vaccine manufacturers dropped their retail prices slightly, while others merely tacked the new excise tax onto their standard price.
An official of the Department of Health and Human Services who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that although outsiders do not have access to drug manufacturers' books, he and his colleagues suspect that "most of what they used to charge in liability has now been turned into profit." The only vaccine that decreased in price after the compensation program took effect was the shot for whooping cough, diphtheria and tetanus, and even there, the manufacturer's price is almost 10 times what it was in 1982.
 
Manufacturers Are Few
 While the excise tax accounts for almost half the price of the $10 whooping cough vaccine, it explains only 29 cents of a $9.91 polio shot; there is no excise tax on the new vaccines. The tax on each vaccine is determined by the predicted rates of serious side effects.
One source of frustration for public health officials is that each vaccine is made by only a small number of companies in this country. For example, two vaccines are made by only one company. That allows the companies to dominate the market and set prices as they wish.
When there is only one manufacturer "we have very little bargaining power," said Dr. Hinman of the disease centers. The agency buys about half the nation's vaccines and negotiates reduced rates that are generally about half those in the private sector.
But they are still often more expensive than similar vaccines in other countries, leading some pediatricians to suspect that the companies are reaping hefty profits.
"The pharmaceutical companies have not been willing to open their books to reveal the information that would allow us to make a judgment about their costs versus their prices, but we can compare prices here to international prices," said Dr. Ed Marcuse, of the Children's Hospital Medical Center in Seattle. "When you buy U.S. vaccine in the U.S. you get delivery and you get the ability to return outdated vials. On the other hand you're looking at a price difference of $26 for a vaccine here to $1 in much of the world, and I'm not sure it's worth it."
Oral polio vaccine, which retails to doctors for more than $9 a dose in this country before the excise tax is added, costs only about $1 in France. Merck sells measles vaccine for $25.29 to private doctors, who add a markup when they bill patients. The vaccine costs the disease centers $15.30, but the Ministry of Health in Ontario, Canada, where prices are negotiated by the Government, pays only about $7.
 
Unicef Pays Much Less
 Unicef spends only pennies for many of these inoculations, paying about 7 cents for a dose of polio or whooping cough vaccine, but it does not generally buy them from American manufacturers. The quality of these vaccines is considered high since all meet strict World Health Organization standards, and critics of manufacturers in the United States say that these low prices show how cheap vaccines are to make.
But drug manufacturers counter that in some countries certain vaccines actually cost more than the price charged to the Federal health agency, although they rarely cost more than private doctors pay. While the Canadian Government pays $3.79 a dose for Lederle's oral polio vaccine to cover all its citizens, the United States Government pays only $2.10 a dose; private doctors pay $9.91.
Dr. Douglas said Merck's measles vaccine was sold in Europe, Australia and New Zealand for about the same price as in the United States. He added that many inexpensive vaccines used by organizations like Unicef were sold below the true cost of producing them at the behest of European governments committed to producing cheap vaccines for the developing world.
Some experts blame complicated licensing and production regulations from the Food and Drug Administration in part for the high prices in this country as well as the small number of companies making vaccines here.
 
Role of Development
 "The bottom line is that you have to price vaccines so that you recover your capital or else you're out of business," Dr. Douglas of Merck said.
Skeptics say that vaccine manufacturers have in some cases exaggerated their research, production and liability costs.
In a statement before the National Vaccine Advisory Committee last month, Dr. Ronald J. Saldarini, president of Lederle-Praxis, a division of the American Cyanamid Company, emphasized "the pivotal role that U.S. industry has played in the development of new vaccine products in the past." But neither of the two new vaccines that the company has released in the last few years was developed in its own labs.
Praxis developed the vaccine for meningitis, and the company was then bought by Lederle; the pharmaceutical company's new whooping cough vaccine was developed in Japan and licensed to Lederle for sale in the United States. Lederle does have a number of other vaccines under development.
But officials at Lederle defended their research costs, pointing out that the company still had to do clinical trials to market the Japanese vaccine.
While liability costs for vaccine makers have clearly decreased since the Vaccine Injury Compensation Act took effect in 1988, manufacturers say that they are still pondering the full effect of the law and they emphasize that their liability will never be zero.
Apparently, liability has been sufficiently reduced that vaccine research in this country is once again an active field, with a number of companies working on vaccines for illnesses like respiratory viruses and chicken pox. And foreign manufacturers that left in the early 1980's because of liability concerns are beginning to return.
Public health organizations and medical groups like the American Academy of Pediatrics hope that renewed competition will bring prices down. Many also support Government purchase of vaccines, a plan the President has suggested, but that industry rejects, saying it might drive them out of business.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Recommended Childhood Immunizations," shows cost to the private sector in 1992, which includes federal excise tax as portion of cost of vaccines for diphtheria, tetanus pertussis; polio, measles mumps, rubella; hemophlus influenza B*; hepatitis B* (*expected to be added to the Federal immunization program) (Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: VACCINATION AND VACCINES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PRICES; IMMUNIZATION AND IMMUNITY; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) VACCINES (97%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); CHILDREN (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); WHOOPING COUGH (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); EXCISE TAX (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (87%); BIOLOGICS MFG (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); HEPATITIS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); MENINGITIS (73%); HEPATITIS B (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



391 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
G.M. has persuaded Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, the hard-driving purchasing executive who in nine months has saved it hundreds of millions in costs, not to go to Volkswagen, apparently by offering him more authority. [Page D1.]
VW is planning a major overhaul that is expected to include significant cutbacks in its work force as well as a big spending program to help spur growth in Germany and America. [D1.] 
 Lehman Brothers is still likely to be successful even after its Shearson brokerage affiliate is sold to Primerica. [D1.]
Even the most respected, self-confident corporate leaders, it seems, are reluctant to jump into the hot seat as the chairman of I.B.M. [D5.]
Major League Baseball is in the middle of a quiet fight over who should control the marketing of memorabilia from the old Negro Leagues and how the revenue should be used. [A1.]
 
Economy
A snowbound New York region and the Northeast emerged from the Blizzard of '93 with surprisingly little damage, though travel was virtually halted and businesses were closed. [A1]
About half the jobs people have been getting in the last year are part-time or temporary or involve other unconventional arrangements. That is up from less than a quarter of the new jobs a decade ago. [A1]
President Clinton and drug companies are in a bitter fight over whether cost data about vaccines indicate price-gouging or an honest effort to insure profits. [A16.]
 
International
The Group of Seven leading industrial nations moved closer to a new plan for assistance to support Russia's economic changes and Boris Yeltsin's leadership. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
The F.C.C. is preparing new pricing rules for cable TV that are likely to jolt the industry but make consumers happy. The rules are in response to the cable regulation law that Congress passed last fall. [D1.]
TV-watching outside the home represents about 4 percent of viewing, according to a joint survey by ABC, CBS and NBC. [D1.]
The New York Post's existence grew more precarious, as its latest editor quit in a confrontation with Abraham Hirschfeld, its latest buyer, who has demanded a list of people for dismissals. [A1.]
The Itty Bitty Book Light now has the perfect companion: the itty bitty book. Publishers are packaging more books, particularly novels, in trimmer size. Esther B. Fein: Publishing. [D6.]
The 90's Man is absolutely hooked on fashion. At least, that's the view of Esquire, which considers itself expert when it comes to men. [D6.]
Which pieces of the ad business should be saved for posterity? "The horrible answer is everything," says John O'Toole, president of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Voters in Brevard County, Fla., are deciding whether the financially sound county will default on a $23.9 million issue that was used to pay for the new government operations center. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]
Two New York City doctors have received a patent for a simple device that insures pieces of growths are not left in the body after surgery. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
The stocks of oilfield service companies are surging, even though the rig count -- a key gauge of oil-and-gas drilling -- has plunged. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); BASEBALL (69%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); PUBLISHING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); BOOK PUBLISHING (64%); PRICE CHANGES (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



392 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
As Economists Snipe, An Adviser Presses On

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
Backbiting is a time-honored practice in the nation's capital, but the nastiness that greeted Laura D'Andrea Tyson's appointment to head the President's Council of Economic Advisers surprised even veteran Washingtonians.
Respected academics telephoned each other -- and their journalist friends -- to snipe at her, whispering that she was an ill-advised choice because she was not a free-trader, was outside the economics mainstream and was not one of the brightest stars in her field. 
 Some members of the Cambridge intelligentsia protested because after 12 years of Republican rule they felt a sense of entitlement that this coveted post should go to one of their city's young liberal superstars, like Lawrence Summers of Harvard University or Paul Krugman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
And a few economists muttered about a reverse sexism in which President Clinton passed over a dozen male heavyweights to pick Ms. Tyson as the first woman to head the three-member council, which was set up under President Harry S. Truman.
 
'Professional Jealousy'
 Ms. Tyson, an easy-going, 45-year-old professor from the University of California at Berkeley, was stunned and hurt by all the viciousness.
"It seems clear that to some extent it must be professional jealousy," she said in her first one-on-one interview since taking office. "A lot of these people I know pretty well, and I feel personal loyalty to them. I would have hoped they felt some of the same loyalty toward me."
The tumble of recent events has helped her get over the uncomfortable episode. For the past few weeks, she has worked 13-hour days, sitting through marathon meetings on the President's economic plan, testifying before Congress and appearing on television news programs to defend the plan.
Her role in the economic plan, she said, included making sure that the amount of deficit reduction was not so large that it undermined the fragile recovery and not so small that it would be scoffed at by financial markets and the public. She also did much of the heavy intellectual lifting on the $31 billion stimulus program intended to speed job creation.
 
Knowledge of Trade
 When President Clinton set up the National Economic Council to coordinate the Administration's economic policy making, some prominent economists voiced fears that this would push the often-marginalized Council of Economic Advisers further into the background.
But Ms. Tyson says she is too busy to feel marginalized. Her job involves interpreting economic data for the President, preparing the Administration's economic forecasts, helping formulate policies and assessing the costs and benefits of a raft of proposals.
Because of her expertise on trade, she has helped tutor Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, on the ABC's of a subject in which he had little experience. She has also been instrumental in drafting a strategic trade policy that will pressure Japan and other Asian nations to open their markets more while providing more generous Federal support for high-tech industries.
Many economists have seen Ms. Tyson's unmistakable hand in some of the President's speeches. The clearest example was Mr. Clinton's Feb. 22 speech to Boeing workers in which he vowed to take a tougher approach toward Airbus, the European aircraft consortium.
Ms. Tyson explored in detail how Airbus had hurt American aircraft manufacturers in her most recent book, "Who's Bashing Whom? Trade Conflict in High-Technology Industries" (Institute for International Economics). She suggested that Washington subsidize the industry to offset the subsidies Airbus receives.
Displaying modesty that is rare in a city fueled by big egos, she denied that her thinking had heavily influenced the President. "One of the reasons he chose me was he thinks about many problems the way I do," she said.
 
Worries About Family
 Ms. Tyson's husband, Erik Tarloff, a Hollywood screenwriter who specializes in comedy, says his wife hesitated two and a half minutes before accepting the post. She felt that when the President beckoned she could not say no, although she was worried by her 9-year-old son's fears that he would hardly ever see his mother.
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times, Mr. Tarloff wrote that their son's reaction was, "I'm going to become a Republican." But Mr. Tarloff added, "I've persuaded him that the cure he proposes is worse than the disease."
Sitting on a white sofa in an office that has a half-moved-into air, with a glossy picture of Mr. Clinton and four small Monet reproductions on the wall, Ms. Tyson exudes an I'm-just-glad-to-be-here attitude. A thin woman fond of bright scarves and suits, she said she was "honored" to be the first chairwoman of the council.
She said she was surprised that Mr. Clinton had chosen her because she had never met him before last August. She was invited to a meeting of economic advisers in Little Rock, Ark., where she was expected to be eclipsed by luminaries like Mr. Summers, Mr. Krugman and James A. Tobin, a Yale professor and Nobel laureate.
But it turned out to be her opportunity to shine. When Mr. Clinton said he wanted to do something about the loss of manufacturing jobs, several economists suggested that his worries were misplaced, explaining that in industrial nations the number of manufacturing jobs typically shrinks as the economy shifts toward service jobs. In a campaign where lost jobs was a major issue, that ivory-tower answer was the last thing Mr. Clinton wanted to hear.
But Ms. Tyson's response was pragmatic music to his ears. She outlined how Washington could help American manufacturers by taking a tougher stance against foreign trade barriers and by providing seed money for promising new technologies.
"She was able to give answers that were to the point and addressed what he wanted," Mr. Krugman said. "There was an immediate personal rapport between them. She's a smart, very sophisticated economist."
 
Outside Mainstream
 Ms. Tyson is outside the mainstream in that she specializes in trade, international competitiveness and high technology. In contrast, mainstream economists focus on theoretical models and elaborate mathematical equations to analyze how economies work. Another difference is that she discusses her profession in conversational English rather than the hypertechnical jargon favored by many of her colleagues.
"There's no artifice with Laura," said Michael Borrus, a Berkeley professor and colleague. "She's really an honest evaluator of ideas."
Her advocacy of government activism has brought criticism from conservatives, who see her suggestion for Boeing subsidies as evidence that she is an interventionist who favors government-run industrial policy.
Washington has long helped specific industries, Ms. Tyson argues, pointing to Pentagon contracts and farm subsidies. She says that when Europe and Japan are providing seed money to help promising industries it might be foolish for Washington to shun the idea. It is not a matter of picking which industries are going to live and which are going to die, she said, but of having the Government join business in financing research in new technologies, like superconductors, that might help many industries.
Ms. Tyson's book has also brought catcalls for shunning free-trade thinking. She defended the Bush Administration for persuading Japan to set aside 20 percent of its semiconductor market for American and other foreign suppliers. Her book, though condemning import quotas, also approved Washington's threats to erect trade barriers to put pressure on other nations to remove barriers to American goods.
To her critics, she is a pamphleteer who supports managed trade and protectionism. "She is increasingly unique among economists in being very sympathetic to protection," said Daniel Mitchell, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a research organization in Washington. "She has come to policy conclusions that I think are at odds with reality."
Ms. Tyson can hardly hide her exasperation with such criticism. "Many charges come from people who haven't actually read anything I have written, or if they read it, they haven't read it carefully," she said.
"The dichotomy between free trade on the one hand and protection on the other is usually not the choice that exists in reality. There is always some shade of gray in between."
 
'Some Shade of Gray'
 What is Washington to do when American semiconductor makers face a Japanese market all but closed to imports? she asks. Free-trade shibboleths provide no answers, she says, and nor does heavy-handed protection. Instead she says that "aggressive unilateralism," like threatening retaliation, may be warranted until unfair trade barriers are removed and better multilateral trade rules are negotiated.
But Gene Grossman, a Princeton University economist, said, "She doesn't, in my view, recognize that the fact that markets don't work perfectly isn't necessarily a rationale for government intervention unless you think you can put in place a political system that isn't subject to being co-opted by special interests."
Michael J. Boskin, who led the council under President George Bush, said the carping about Ms. Tyson's academic credentials was foolish, but he asserted that it was legitimate to worry about "her unorthodox views" on industrial policy and trade, because the council is often the sole voice in the Administration speaking up for the market.
Defending herself, Ms. Tyson says she is not a knee-jerk advocate of government intervention.
"The market does many things very well, but there is a rationale for the Government doing things that the market doesn't do very well," she said. "The role of the Council of Economic Advisers is to help evaluate when there is a defensible role for a government policy and whether government policy in pursuit of that objective is efficient."
 
 
 
LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON

 
Born: June 28, 1947; Bayonne, N.J.
 
Hometown, Berkeley, Cal.
 
Education: Holy Trinity High School, Westfield, N.J., 1965; B.A., Smith College, Ph.D., 1969; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1974
 
Career Highlights: Assistant Professor, Princeton University, 1974-1977; Assistant Professor, University of California at Berkeley, 1978, associate professor 1983, full professor 1988
 
Publications: The Yugoslav Economic System and Its Performance in the 1970's (University of California at Berkeley 1980); Economic Adjustment in Eastern Europe (Rand Corporation 1984); Who's Bashing Whom?: Trade Conflicts in High-Technology Industries (Institute for International Economics 1992)
 
Family: Married to Erik Tarloff; one son, Elliot, 9
 
Hobbies: Reading fiction; exercise, taking her son to museums, music lessons, parks

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura D'Andrea Tyson has ignored much of the sniping aimed at her in her first months as head of the Council of Economic Advisers. Instead, she has worked 13-hour days, sitting through meetings, testifying before Congress and appearing on television to defend the President's economic plan. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (CHMN); TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



393 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Lehman Without Shearson Can Still Be a Wall St. Force

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Lehman Brothers securities firm, which will remain at American Express after its Shearson brokerage affiliate is sold to Primerica later this year, will be less imposing than before, but its competitors and industry analysts say it will remain large enough to succeed.
The Primerica Corporation hopes that merging Shearson with its smaller Smith Barney, Harris Upham unit will be an opportunity to cut costs and raise profits. "One plus one makes three," said Sanford I. Weill, Primerica's chairman. 
 The American Express Company, which agreed to the $1 billion deal last week, wants more profit from Lehman, too, but it is using a different arithmetic -- subtraction. American Express hopes to strengthen Lehman's finances by taking away the distraction caused by Shearson.
To keep Lehman among Wall Street's leaders and collect a higher price from its possible sale, Harvey Golub, chairman of American Express, wants Lehman executives to avoid the strife between traders and corporate financiers that led to the breakup of the Lehman partnership in 1984 and its planned sale of Shearson. Since last month, Lehman has been run by co-presidents, J. Tomilson Hill, a former mergers and acquisitions specialist, and Richard S. Fuld, a former bond trader.
But maintaining Lehman's stature on Wall Street and raising profits may not be easy, particularly when interest rates turn up and the number of new issues decline.
In the competition for large companies that issue new securities, Lehman may no longer be able to claim that it is best qualified. The Shearson network of nearly 9,000 brokers and almost 400 offices gave Lehman insight into investor demands and the ability to sell securities quickly. Merrill Lynch & Company is the only other firm that can still make that claim. In the past, rival securities firms would often include Shearson or Merrill in their deals just to gain access to a large broker network.
Without the broker network, Lehman will lose a big advantage, some securities executives say, and will not be much different from First Boston; Goldman, Sachs; Morgan Stanley, or Salomon Brothers -- firms that limit their selling to institutions.
As a harbinger of the sniping that is almost certain to come from competitors, John L. Steffans, executive vice president at Merrill Lynch, said on Friday that the break-up of Shearson Lehman Brothers would give Merrill "somewhat of an edge in deals that require broad-based distribution."
He said that while Lehman would be distracted by arrangements that call for sharing research and back-office processing, Merrill's workers would be free to concentrate on selling.
But others do not see the loss of Shearson's distribution network as a big setback. Lehman Brothers will still have 750 brokers who sell to wealthy individuals and small institutions. In addition, the agreement with Primerica calls for Lehman Brothers to continue giving its regular share of new issues to Shearson brokers.
That agreement is unique but will last only one to two years, depending on the type of security.
James Hanbury, an analyst at Wertheim & Company, said Lehman executives claimed that their group of 750 brokers had sold about 45 percent of the securities allocated to Shearson Lehman Brothers as part of financings handled by Lehman.
The sale of Shearson may not be the end of the turmoil at Lehman. Mr. Golub of American Express said on Friday that costs at Lehman must be cut, and he still expects to sell the company when it is financially stronger. He said American Express might find a company to buy Lehman or sell part of the firm in a public stock offering. Lehman executives probably could not arrange to buy the firm, Mr. Golub added.
Lehman does not disclose its profits, but based on recent results at Shearson Lehman, including last year's $116 million loss, analysts estimated that Lehman's earnings have been below industry standards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); PRI (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; SHEARSON LEHMAN BROTHERS INC; PRIMERICA CORP LEHMAN BROTHERS SECURITIES (93%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (58%); PRIMERICA INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; SHEARSON LEHMAN BROTHERS INC; PRIMERICA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); BOND MARKETS (67%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL RICHARD S FULD (58%); SANDY WEILL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



394 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Executive Brief -- HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT;
Remaking H.U.D. for Those It Serves

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
Henry G. Cisneros has been walking the halls, and he does not like what he sees.
Mr. Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, earned his Ph.D. in public administration from George Washington University. He says he knows "internalization of subgoals" when he sees it. 
 What Mr. Cisneros means is that many H.U.D. workers are so busy attending meetings, checking forms and enforcing obscure regulations that they have lost track of their real goal: housing for those who need it.
"At the end of the day, you're exhausted," he said, of the civil servants at the department's sprawling concrete headquarters. "But it has nothing to do with what you need to accomplish in the real world."
Mr. Cisneros has been making floor-by-floor inspection tours. He said he was astonished to find a woman who spent her day making sure that grant applicants had correctly copied information from Form A to Form B, and sending the forms back when discrepancies arose.
"This is an Alice in Wonderland world," he said. "No human being could ever consciously create something this gridlocked and mazed."
Mr. Cisneros has tempered such criticism with praise for some individual civil servants. In fact, he even took one of them, Michael Janis, who oversees the nation's public-housing programs, to meet the President.
But just as President Clinton has talked about "reinventing Government," Mr. Cisneros says he plans to "reinvent H.U.D." He has asked his planning staff to help him write a new statement of purpose for the department, and he is insisting that it include measurable goals.
As part of that process, he began a two-day retreat at the headquarters on Friday for about 70 employees, from top aides to secretaries.
 
Not Quite the C.I.A. When It Comes to Security

While he is at it, Mr. Cisneros might consider reinventing the building's security staff, which also has an Alice in Wonderland quality.
Lobby guards insist that visitors sign their names, write the reason for their visit and produce a photo identification card. But they virtually never check to see whether the photo matches the face, or whether the signature matches that on the card.
And under "reason for visit," a visitor could probably write "spray the hallways with gunfire," as long as the gunman flashed a laminated photo I.D. on the way in.
 
Andrew Cuomo's Office Is H.U.D.'s New 'Hot Shop'
 After a campaign in which homelessness seemed about the only thing Mr. Clinton did not have a plan to solve, there has been a surprising development.
The President's economic package proposes nearly to triple spending for "supportive housing," the Government's main program for the homeless. The President wants to increase its allocation to $423 million from $150 million last year.
One set of winners would be the not-for-profit groups that can use the money to build housing or to provide social services. Another winner would be Andrew M. Cuomo, the son of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
Mr. Cuomo, who used to run such a not-for-profit group in New York, has been chosen as the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, the division that administers the money.
Mr. Cuomo's office won another victory in the budget wars: a Presidential commitment to add $2.5 billion to its Community Development Block Grant program.
These are among the factors making Mr. Cuomo's office a "hot shop," which is insider talk for an exciting place to work.
 
The Ghost of Mr. Kemp And the Party of Lincoln
 Jack F. Kemp, Mr. Cisneros's predecessor, may be gone from the building, but his favorite President is not.
Mr. Kemp spent his four years trying to attract more minorities to the Republican Party, which he ceaselessly referred to as "the party of Lincoln." Accordingly, he decorated many of the halls with huge photographs of the Lincoln Memorial. Mr. Kemp even gave Mr. Cisneros an autographed copy of one of the photographs as a welcoming gift.
Mr. Cisneros has left the Lincolns in place -- so far, at least -- but he has been less kind to Mr. Kemp's favorite program, voicing doubts at his confirmation hearing about the plan to sell public housing to their tenants.
And he further annoyed the Kemp camp last week when he said his predecessor's interest in "ideologically attractive themes" may have led to "some inattention" to basic management.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HOUSING HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); CITIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CISNEROS, HENRY G (SEC) BILL CLINTON (69%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



395 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Unpopular Projects Unite Minorities

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
WHEN Robert F. Wagner was Mayor, he once recalled, some of the loudest opposition to a proposed low-income housing project came from black residents of a nearby Queens neighborhood. Most had graduated from the slums only to find that city government was, by design, creating what market forces and racial prejudice had periodically fashioned on their own: a new ghetto.
Decades later, a Federal judge is weighing a similar challenge. Three Brooklyn women have filed a suit contending that the Fort Greene site for a proposed residence for homeless people with mental disabilities and drug or alcohol addictions was chosen because it is in a predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhood. 
 If Queens residents historically believed they got short shrift in snow removal and Staten Islanders have argued that they get too much garbage, diverse New Yorkers seem united in anger that their neighborhood is unfairly targeted for undesirable public projects. They find common ground with those in Manhattan neighborhoods, some of which have been forced to warehouse the homeless in mammoth welfare hotels.
When New York City voters revised the City Charter four years ago, one goal was to mollify people who feared that they were bearing a disproportionate share of change. Officials were required to calculate the ratio of onerous public projects in each neighborhood. If a community was considered oversaturated, a project could proceed only in an emergency, on a temporary basis or if there was no practical alternative.
Previously, said Richard L. Schaffer, director of the City Planning Department, those decisions had been made largely on the basis of two factors other than fairness: "political expediency and the availability of inexpensive city-owned land." The Planning Department drew maps to demonstrate how projects had been apportioned and it compiled a "statement of needs" from city agencies that suggested what new projects were anticipated and what alternatives might be offered.
"City agencies generally have failed to carry out the process of meaningful community consultation," says a report by Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, in part because they fear that identifying a proposed site too soon will only make it a rallying point for community opposition more quickly. (Ms. Messinger's own sights also have shifted beyond Manhattan: in appeals for support in 1993, she says she is running for mayor in 1997. What if Mayor David N. Dinkins seeks a third term? "I'm assuming that he's not going to," Ms. Messinger said.)
"As a result," her report says, "the goals of community involvement in the siting process and the actual siting of the facility seem to be at odds with one another."
Those goals have sometimes been circumvented, partly because guidelines vaguely define what constitutes "office space," which is largely exempt from the siting criteria as are verbal agreements with hoteliers to rent individual rooms to homeless people and nonprofit agencies -- the very formula that the Dinkins administration has embraced to provide transitional housing.
"Fair share is a wonderful ideal that will never be realized because it's never been defined," said Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President.
Previous studies have suggested that poorer neighborhoods shoulder a disproportionate share of programs for the homeless, the mentally disabled and drug addicts. Some of those programs mostly serve people from those neighborhoods. Some were placed there because sites in poor neighborhoods generally are less expensive to buy or rent.
"But when you're talking about disproportionate impact," said Rosaria Sinisi, a lawyer for three Brooklyn plaintiffs in the suit against the proposed Emerson Family Development Center, "does the fact that it's cheaper make it right?"
If predominantly minority census tracts are defined as those in which more than 5 in 10 residents are black or Hispanic, Ms. Sinisi found that, citywide about 8 in 10 of the city's housing sites for the homeless and the mentally disabled and nearly as large a share of drug-abuse programs had been placed in minority neighborhoods. In some boroughs, the proportion was even higher.
Rebutting the plaintiffs, the State Attorney General argues loftily: "Plaintiffs' complaint is not that minority residents of a publicly funded facility are being placed in a minority neighborhood, but that mentally ill residents are being placed in a minority neighborhood. Any claim that there is a stigma attacked to having these individuals living in plaintiffs' neighborhood must be rejected as against public policy. The segregation of minorities can be said to imply some inferiority or unacceptability of the minority groups. The same is not true of placing a residence for the mentally ill in a community."
Winning communities over can be costly, particularly when they are fed up with crime and anti-social behavior. By providing better security and social services and by spending more time consulting with prospective neighbors, though, government can come closer to meeting the Charter's goals: equity, vision, consensus, accountability and neighborhood preservation or even improvement.
The price of paying only lip service to those principles is cynicism and alienation. For the public, the proposed solutions may become paramount while the underlying problems may be out of mind. Meanwhile, the city may be out of sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; ALCOHOL ABUSE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT HOMELESSNESS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (75%); LITIGATION (71%); JUDGES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



396 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
F.C.C. Tilts Toward Lower Cable TV Rates

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
Taking a tough new stance toward cable television prices, the Federal Communications Commission is preparing new pricing rules that are likely to jolt the industry but make consumers happier.
In recent months, the agency has collected pricing information from hundreds of cable operators and found that cable systems with competitors charge about 48 cents a channel each month, while those that have a monopoly charge 65 cents. Systems with fewer than 1,000 subscribers generally charge even more. 
 Commission officials say their decision will almost certainly end up somewhere between what consumers desire and what the industry would like, but they leave little doubt that they are tilting toward tighter regulation.
"There won't be a perfect answer," said James H. Quello, acting chairman of the F.C.C. But signaling a new attitude on the commission toward regulation, he added, "there's no doubt the intent of Congress was clearly lower rates and better service for customers."
After a bruising battle over cable prices in Congress last year, a coalition of Democrats and moderate Republicans managed to override a veto by President George Bush and pushed through a bill that reimposes rate regulation for the first time since 1986.
 
Just What Is 'Reasonable'?
 The law requires the commission to draft guidelines under which local governments would be allowed to set "reasonable prices" for the basic package of service. With anything beyond that, customers and local authorities could ask the F.C.C. to roll back "unreasonable prices."
But the law offers wide room for interpretation, and the cable industry has been feverishly trying to limit its losses. At the same time, consumer groups and local-government officials have fought back, lobbying for stronger rules.
Now it appears, three weeks before the April 3 deadline imposed by Congress, that the cable industry will wind up unhappy. Commission officials say that while they have still not decided precisely how to regulate the different tiers of cable service, the outcome will probably be closer to the proposals of consumer groups than to those of the industry.
 
Negative Response Expected
 "We're working toward something that the cable industry will probably squawk about," said a commission official, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.
Commission officials say they have accumulated new cable price data that could help them set tough benchmarks for "reasonable prices."
Rising cable rates proved to be an explosive issue in Congress last fall, and they represent a big pocketbook issue for the 58 million Americans who subscribe to these systems. Prices for the most popular tiers of programming have climbed more than twice as fast as the rate of inflation in recent years, in part because most cable systems have enjoyed both exclusive franchises and freedom from regulation.
The National Cable Television Association has argued that Congress intended to impose tight regulation on only a bare-bones package of services consisting of little more than local over-the-air television channels. Under the industry's proposal, the cable packages offering most of the other channels -- from CNN and Nickelodeon to sports channels like ESPN -- would be left almost completely unregulated.
Furthermore, the F.C.C. would assume that the prices charged by at least 95 percent of all systems for these expanded packages were reasonable. Only the 5 percent of systems that are most expensive would be considered unreasonable, and the companies offering these systems would be given a chance to justify their rates.
James P. Mooney, president of the trade association, saw the matter in stark terms. "The lifeblood of our industry is at stake," he said. "At some point, this has to go beyond political pot-shotting to the grownup regulatory stage, and that is happening now. The Government has to get down to serious analysis."
 
Search for 'Rough Justice'
 Consumer groups and local governments, including New York City's, have argued that the F.C.C. should essentially roll back prices for most services by about 30 percent. They argue that the rollbacks would bring prices into line with what they would be if the cable operators faced direct competition.
"Our approach from the beginning has been to look for a model of rough justice," said William F. Squadron, New York City's Commissioner of Telecommunications. Mr. Squadron noted that prices charged by Time Warner in the city have jumped about 25 percent in three years and by 3 percent since the new cable law was passed in the fall.
"There have been a number of analyses that have found essentially you've got a 30 to 40 percent monopoly rent markup," he said. "To achieve a rough-justice benchmark, a middle-ground number would give sufficient protection to customers and not be unfair to industry."
 
Competition Is the Point
 The law broadly defines "reasonable" as prices charged by the handful of cable systems that face "effective competition." But there has been much fighting in setting the benchmark that embraces this idea.
The new data suggest that "reasonable" rates would be higher than those proposed by the Consumer Federation of America and city governments, which have suggested a per-channel rate of 34 cents.
The F.C.C. has become far more amenable to regulation since President Clinton took office. Alfred C. Sikes, who served as chairman under President Bush and was hostile to regulation, has stepped down.
Mr. Quello, a Democrat who has served as a commissioner for more than two decades, has been far more receptive to regulation than Mr. Sikes was. Less than two weeks ago, the commission announced its intention to impose stricter regulation of children's television. And, acting on a separate part of the cable legislation last week, the commission pushed through rules requiring cable systems to answer customer calls within 30 seconds and start responding to problems within a day.
The composition of the five-member commission is still shifting. Mr. Clinton has not named a successor to Mr. Sikes. One of the two remaining Republicans, Sherrie P. Marshall, is not taking part in the cable discussions because she is preparing to join a law firm that represents media companies. That leaves one Democrat, Ervin S. Duggan, and one Republican, Andrew C. Barrett, neither of whom fit neatly into political categories.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James H. Quello, acting F.C.C. chairman, said, "There's no doubt the intent of Congress was clearly lower rates and better service." (The New York Times, 1986) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) NATIONAL CABLE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; PRICES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); VETO (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; QUELLO, JAMES H GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



397 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Patents

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE last thing a patient wants to hear after having a potentially cancerous growth removed is that a piece of the tumor has been lost inside the body. Yet that is exactly what happens a surprising number of times when polyps are removed from the colon.
Now two doctors at Beth Israel Medical Center in New York City who tired of searching for wayward polyps have won a patent for a simple snare that traps the growth before it is cut away. 
 Colon cancer is second to lung cancer as the nation's most common form of the disease, afflicting about 150,000 people a year. It usually begins with mushroom-shaped polyps on the colon, or large intestine. To remove them, a doctor uses a fiber-optic scope to lasso the growth, then severs it with electric current. If cancer is found in the polyp stem, then it may have invaded the colon as well, so surgery is required to remove part of the colon.
But first a biopsy is necessary, and that can be difficult if some or all of the polyp is missing.
 
Time-Consuming Process
 "Once it's cut, the polyp chase starts," said Dr. Naomi L. Nakao, a gastroenterologist who invented the snare with Dr. Peter Wilk. "The polyp rolls back into the colon and gets lost in the feces. Many times it's a painful, time-consuming thing to retrieve the polyp.
"You have to try suction, or forceps, and the polyp falls off or gets macerated," she added. If those methods fail, the patient gets one or more enemas in the hope of flushing out the polyp. Dr. Nakao says that in up to a third of cases, the polyp is never found.
"Often the time spent trying to retrieve the polyp is as long as the cauterization procedure itself," she said.
Dr. Nakao said she was motivated to design the snare after being consulted on a case in which the polyp was so torn that it was unclear whether cancer cells had come from its stem or cap.
"The patient had to have a colon resection, since it was impossible to determine where the cancer was," Dr. Nakao said. "Afterwards, a biopsy was done, and no cancer cells were found in the colon itself. So the surgery was unnecessary."
The snare, which looks like a tiny butterfly net, is slipped over the polyp when the growth is lassoed; when the polyp is severed, it simply falls into the net. Dr. Nakao and Dr. Wilk said they were negotiating with several medical equipment manufacturers interested in licensing the snare. It received patent 5,190,542.
 
Wire Composite For Superconductors

After a five-and-a-half-year examination of its application, American Superconductor Corporation has won a patent for composites used in making superconducting wire.
The patent advances the complex struggle to develop economical superconductor technologies that will carry electricity inexpensively and efficiently. Cooled to very low temperatures -- the equivalent of about 225 degrees below zero Fahrenheit -- superconductive ceramics lose all resistance to electricity. That means superconductive power lines have a tremendous advantage over traditional copper or aluminum wires because more electricity can be transmitted over the same size wire without any energy dissipation.
Researchers are still trying to develop superconductor materials that will work at temperatures closer to normal.
The ceramics are also very brittle and one challenge has been to shape them into wires or coils. American Superconductor's newly patented composite combines high-temperature superconductive ceramics with metals like silver to make flexible cables.
 
Fine Ceramic Filament
 "Imagine a fine filament of ceramics running along the length of a metal wire, inside it," said Dr. Gregory J. Yurek, president of American Superconductor, which is based in Watertown, Mass., and is devoted to developing ceramic superconducting wires, wire products and systems. Its composite also works with gold and platinum.
"This creates a wire that can both carry superconductor current with no electrical resistance and also gets around Mother Nature, around the brittleness," Dr. Yurek added. "Because of cost, the reasonable metal of choice is silver."
American Superconductor has been "manufacturing a pilot line of these composite wires since last June," Dr. Yurek added. Its goal is to produce extremely long wires that can withstand being rolled, unrolled and handled during manufacture and installation.
There are vast potential benefits to mass-produced superconductor wire. Cities would be able to replace worn-out copper cables and increase power capacity without having to install additional or bigger power lines. Integrated circuits, electric motors and generators could all be made smaller, though they would require an adjacent refrigeration unit to cool the superconductors. American Superconductor's patent is 5,189,009.
 
Condom Logo Is Accepted
 The Old Glory Condom Corporation last week won an appeal to register its name and American-flag-inspired logo as a trademark after being turned down last summer because the Patent and Trademark Office said the images were scandalous.
The company sells red, white and blue condoms. It applied to register its logo of a condom waving flag-like from a pole and decorated with the stars and stripes design of the American flag. But the Government decided that using the flag to sell condoms would "scandalize or shock the conscience of a substantial composite of the general public."
In its appeal, the company said that many trademarks incorporated the flag and that many other condom companies had registered names or logos that could be perceived as scandalous.
The Patent and Trademark Office appeal board granted the trademark after finding no evidence to support the original refusal.
Patents are available by number for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Naomi L. Nakao and Dr. Peter Wilk won a patent for this snare to trap polyps in the colon before they can be lost after detachment. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMSC (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3643 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (60%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORP; OLD GLORY CONDOM CORP ; PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORP (60%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORP; OLD GLORY CONDOM CORP ; PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; CANCER; COLON; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTRICITY; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; CONDOMS; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES ; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; SUPERCONDUCTORS; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA PATENTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CANCER (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (89%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (85%); LUNG CANCER (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (77%); TRADEMARK LAW (74%); 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA; NAKAO, NAOMI L (DR); WILK, PETER (DR) GREGORY J YUREK (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



398 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Balancing Czech

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
The drama is classic: A courageous, charismatic dissident rallies the people behind him to reject the old regime; he brings in an ally to help him handle the reins of power; the trusted ally then either betrays or redeems the revolution.
In Russia, that drama is being played out toward betrayal, as the leader of the rump Parliament seeks to strip President Yeltsin of the power he legitimately derived from the people in an election. Ruslan Khasbulatov, though disavowed by his separatist home constituency, is reaching for Kremlin control. 
 In the Czech Republic, the other scenario is also in Act Two. Vaclav Havel, the jailed playwright who became President, brought in an American-trained economist who became Prime Minister. While Havel remains a prickly moral force and Western favorite, this legislative leader, Vaclav Klaus (Vaclav is a popular namefor Czech politicians) is in effective control, trying to turn a revolutionary dream into practical government.
"Everything in the post-Communist world is learned by doing," says Klaus. "Our main enemies were not the Communist apparatchiks. Our main enemies were the Western consultants, the investment bankers, the swarm of advisers who told us what we could not do." He likes to deride their "soft advice for hard currency."
Vaclav Klaus, an opinionated former academic -- "I have been a politician for only three years and three months" -- makes no effort to conceal his cockiness. "We have the only balanced budget in the world. And what we are doing here with our voucher system will be the subject of doctoral dissertations for decades to come."
For the price of about a week's salary, Czechs had a chance to buy a book of vouchers, which were a sort of warrant to receive stock in companies that were being privatized. Most Czechs were slow to act until some hotshot mutual fund salesmen took up the Government's idea and promised buyers big profits; the salesmen have since been restrained, but the whiff of greed did the trick.
"Everybody decided to participate in this special game," boasts Klaus, who when met with a skeptical look is inclined toward hyperbole. "There is no comparison in the history of mankind. There was not enough capital in the hands of people. We wanted to augment our capital without selling our country to the rest of the world."
For example, the state tobacco monopoly sold a large chunk of its equity to Philip Morris. Other shares in the same company will be offered in return for vouchers held by the Czech public; ordinary Czechs may soon be able to enrich themselves by ruining each other's lungs as Americans have successfully done for years.
Is the plunge into capitalism working? Too soon to tell: the shares are being distributed in waves over coming months, and nobody knows how much of the capital generated will be re-used to finance new ventures.
Major privatization here has lagged behind Poland and Hungary, but that may be because most Polish farmers always owned their land and Hungarians long mixed Communist borscht with free-style goulash. Klaus mutters darkly about "the Polish and Hungarian lobbies at The New York Times and Washington Post," but he admires Poland's Hanna Suchocka -- like himself, a Prime Minister who holds down deficits while a revolutionary leader gets Western adulation.
Klaus's test will come this year. Unemployment is 2 percent, "which Milton Friedman would say is below its natural level." As Government dinosaurs go private, unemployment is expected to rise rapidly. Then the Czech reformer will feel a little of the heat Boris Yeltsin's reformers are feeling.
Here's the difference: "You need political backing. To get this," says Klaus, " a democratic leader has to have, first, a positive vision -- it's not enough to be against Communism. Second, you need a pragmatic reform strategy. Third, you must create a consensus behind change -- that's why I created a political party, to create social cohesion in a time of turmoil."
The Czech Republic, divorced from a Slovakia still afflicted by socialist inertia, will surely work its way into the European market. The bigger question is whether Yeltsin can create a political party in Russia to provide enough social cohesion to resist his revolution's betrayers. What he needs to find is a Russian Vaclav Klaus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (51%); 

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS FRANCE (51%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECH REPUBLIC; RUSSIA CZECH REPUBLIC (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PRIVATIZATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (62%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; KLAUS, VACLAV (MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) VACLAV KLAUS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1993



399 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Changing a Change of Mind, An Executive Quits at G.M.

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 15

 BODY:
From the moment Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua arrived at the General Motors Corporation's headquarters from Europe nine months ago, the straitlaced American automobile industry has never seen anyone so driven and so personally eccentric challenging the Motor City's protocol.
Little did anyone guess, until this afternoon, just how eccentric. 
 In a period of about 48 hours, Mr. Lopez, who has been wooed for months by Volkswagen A.G., formally changed his decision twice about whether to leave G.M., finally announcing his resignation at 1 P.M. today by dispatching a friend to G.M. headquarters with a handwritten note to John F. (Jack) Smith Jr., G.M.'s president and chief executive.
The note arrived just two hours before Mr. Smith had scheduled a news conference to announce that he would name Mr. Lopez president of G.M.'s vast North American operations, one of the most powerful jobs in American business.
 
Given Wide Authority
 Mr. Lopez's flip-flop, which began with his formal resignation from G.M. on Thursday, is a public embarrassment for Mr. Smith, his friend and mentor. In one of his first acts as G.M.'s president, Mr. Smith brought Mr. Lopez, a Spanish industrial engineer, to Detroit, and endowed him with broad powers to shake up the No. 1 auto maker's parts-making and purchasing operations. The hope was that he could repeat the cost-cutting successes that had helped Mr. Smith turn around G.M.'s sputtering European operations in the 1980's.
Mr. Lopez became a symbol of revolution by calling for a broad re-examination of operations at G.M., an auto maker that still makes about 70 percent of its parts.
In dealing with outside suppliers, like makers of steel and tires, he pressed for substantial price cuts that many manufacturers said were unreasonable. Despite his warm overtures to labor, the United Automobile Workers union eyed him warily, fearful that his notions would inevitably mean fewer jobs.
Today, instead of accepting the new G.M. job, Mr. Lopez presumably was on his way to Volkswagen's headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, where VW is expected to announce sweeping management changes on Tuesday. Those changes are likely to include naming Mr. Lopez as the No. 2 executive at VW. But a VW spokeswoman said tonight that the company had nothing new to announce.
The VW job, which would put Mr. Lopez in charge of worldwide production, would come with a financial package worth $20 million over five years, a sum unheard of except among the auto industry's top jobs.
No one at G.M. today knew Mr. Lopez's exact plans, however. He did not say in his note why he had decided a second time to leave G.M., Mr. Smith said.
Mr. Smith, his eyes rimmed red with emotion and exhaustion. described the contents of the note as "personal"; he acknowledged that Mr. Lopez's wife and three daughters wanted to return to Europe.
Mr. Smith stood before a room full of stunned reporters at the auto maker's headquarters; they had been invited to hear details of the 52-year-old executive's promotion. "It is not clear to me what his intentions are or where he is at this time," Mr. Smith said.
Harry Pearce, G.M.'s executive vice president and chief counsel, said he had telephoned Mr. Lopez at 10 A.M. "He sounded very upbeat," Mr. Pearce said of the man who was called "Inaki" by G.M. associates..
Antonette Simonetti, a G.M. public relations manager, said that she had talked to Mr. Lopez at about 11 A.M. today, discussing what he was going to say about his new job.
"He was fine," she said. "I am totally baffled and confused. He was going to say that this is a company that has passion and love, and if G.M. can channel those things to its customers, it will win."
The high-stakes bidding war for Mr. Lopez's services in some ways reflects how desperate both G.M. and VW have become to secure that rare executive who has a track record of performing high-level feats of financial and manufacturing derring-do.
Mr. Lopez succeeded during the last year where others had failed: saving G.M. hundreds of millions of dollars in costs and tearing up contracts with longtime suppliers who were believed to be inefficient.
Two months ago, VW came knocking. Mr. Smith tried personal diplomacy, calling Ferdinand Piech, the German auto maker's newly installed chief executive, to ask him to back off. Then, in early February, G.M. promoted Mr. Lopez to group executive in charge of worldwide purchasing, making him one of the auto maker's top dozen officers.
Executive power was not the only item on Mr. Lopez's wish list. "A major consideration for Inaki" was to build cars with fewer than 10 hours of labor per car, said Mr. Smith, compared with the 20 or so hours at even the most efficient plants. Mr. Lopez tried to persuade G.M. to build a new assembly plant, incorporating his theories, in his Basque homeland.
"We told him it was something we would do if we needed to build another car in Europe," Mr. Smith said. VW, which owns the Spanish automaker SEAT, apparently had made a similar promise, Mr. Smith said, although no auto maker is likely to build a new factory soon in Europe, where demand for vehicles is weakening in the midst of a recession..
Still, a VW commitment for a new plant may be announced on Tuesday.
The strange chain of events leading to Mr. Lopez's exit began on Wednesday, when he returned to Detroit from a European business trip. On his return, Mr. Smith said, he resigned.
On Thursday morning, Mr. Smith tried to persuade Mr. Lopez to stay, he said, offering him the top job in North American operations. It would have been an extraordinary promotion, vaulting him from purchasing chief to the No. 2 executive at G.M., in charge of everything from marketing and product planning to finance and research.
Opinion was divided among automotive analysts as to whether Mr. Smith went overboard to keep Mr. Lopez. One, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Lopez had proved his worth by virtue of G.M.'s improved financial results recently.
But another analyst, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Lopez was manipulating the auto maker and he lacked expertise in areas like product development, marketing and dealer relations.
Outwardly, at any rate, it seemed to many that Mr. Lopez was auctioning his services to G.M. and VW.
At first, after he had resigned, "Inaki said no, there weren't going to be any negotiations," for a new G.M. job, Ms. Simonetti said. So. G.M. announced on Thursday that Mr. Lopez had resigned.
But that evening, about a dozen of Mr. Lopez's colleagues from G.M.'s purchasing department -- whom he often referred to as "my warriors" -- gathered at his home in Bloomfield Township, Mich., to commiserate, and to ask him to stay. "There were some sparks of hope; he agreed to talk to Jack Smith," Ms. Simonetti said.
Late Thursday and early Friday, Mr. Lopez's subordinates began calling Mr. Smith to see if he would welcome Mr. Lopez back. Mr. Smith, at the news conference today, confirmed that he had received about 10 telephone calls from employees.
On Friday morning, Mr. Lopez invited Mr. Smith, Mr. Pearce and G. Richard Wagoner Jr., the chief financial officer, to his home. He said he would stay at G.M. on two conditions: his family had to agree, and Mr. Piech had to agree to release him from his commitment to join VW. By Saturday, Ms. Simonetti said, both conditions were fulfilled.
If Mr. Piech actually released Mr. Lopez from his commitment, he did so reluctantly and with some obvious anger. On Saturday, Mr. Piech issued a statement saying that Mr. Lopez had agreed to "delay" joining VW for up to a year. He also accused G.M.'s board of trying to lure Mr. Lopez back.
But individuals close to G.M. directors, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the board played no role except to support Mr. Smith's actions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua (Associated Press)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: VOW (FRA) (84%); VKW (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; VOLKSWAGEN AG MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); VOLKSWAGEN AG (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; VOLKSWAGEN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; AUTOMOBILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (65%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; LOPEZ DE ARRIORTUA, JOSE IGNACIO; SMITH, JOHN F JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1993



400 of 807 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: Revenge of the Righteous: Reform Comes to Capitol

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15

 BODY:
Nothing is sacred on Capitol Hill anymore. First perks were under attack, then pork became suspect. And now propaganda is getting a bad name.
Representative Porter J. Goss, Republican of Florida, has introduced a bill proposing that his colleagues be forced to pay cash for making extraneous comments in the Congressional Record, the official transcript of what is said in the House and Senate each day. 
 Denouncing what he calls runaway "propaganda" in the "Extensions of Remarks" section in the back of the Record, where lawmakers are allowed to tack on windy paeans to constituents and interest groups that were never delivered on the House floor, Mr. Goss suggests that members be charged $600 each time they add anything that does not pertain to legislative business.
 
Truffles of Privilege
 In the 103d Congress, righteousness is as fashionable as a dull red tie. An earnest freshman class, plus some zealous brethren from earlier classes, are submitting one bill after another intended to root out any remaining truffles of Congressional privilege and show that lawmakers know how to sacrifice, too.
Clinging to the notion that members of Congress deserve a bit of cushiness, some of the old-timers are grumbling that this year is shaping up to be the political version of "The Revenge of the Nerds." The marble halls that were once filled with the bonhomie of logrolling and backscratching are now bristling with goody-goody chic.
"If someone told them to cut their throats because it would be good for the economy, they're prepared to do it," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, the veteran Manhattan Democrat, complaining about the group of lawmakers christened "reformer wonks" by Norman Ornstein, an analyst with the American Enterprise Institute in Washington who focuses on Congress.
 
Victim of Streamlining
 "They have no idea," Mr. Rangel continued. "They're not checking with the leadership. They're just looking for clips for their newsletters. They're feeding on each others' enthusiasms. They have no plan, no strategy, no willingness to sit down and see what is really meaningful."
Mr. Rangel became disillusioned with the idea that "reform" was a magic word when, egged on by the Republicans and some Democrats in the freshman class, the House voted in January to start streamlining its operations by killing the select committees, including the one on Narcotics Abuse and Control that he headed.
In the Democratic cloakroom the other day, another senior Congressman reflected the paranoia in some quarters when he approached Representative Eric D. Fingerhut, a freshman from Cleveland who won office on a platform of cleaning up Congress. Mr. Fingerhut is now co-chairman of the Democratic New Members' Task Force on Reform.
"I hear you guys are going to take away our telephones," the older member groused to the 33-year-old newcomer, who offered reassurance that, while members of Congress might have to pay for their own parking some day, their long-distance calls were safe.
On the other hand, Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa, who has just been named chairman of the Republican House Reform Task Force, is jubilant at the reinforcements. Last year, as a 31-year-old freshman, Mr. Nussle wore a bag on his head on the House floor to dramatize his embarrassment about the House bank scandal. Though the bill died in committee last year, in the hands of lawmakers who had a hard time taking a man in a paper bag seriously, he says he plans to reintroduce it.
"Reform wasn't very popular last year," Mr. Nussle said. "Now, all of a sudden, everyone's a reformer. It's almost like, 'Can you top this?' "
Since Calvinist winds have swept through the Capitol before without much effect, except to increase the number of ethics committees exponentially, it is hard to say whether anything will really change. Ever since the news release was invented, politicians have used it to portray themselves as crusaders, even if they did not care about the particular virtue they were advocating.
Even those who support the idea of revamping Congress say there is a fair amount of showboating going on.
"The problem is that there are so few perks left there isn't really much for them to go after, but they promised their constituents that they would," said James Glassman, the editor of Roll Call, a weekly Capitol Hill newspaper. "So now we are beginning to see evidence that they are descending into triviality."
Consider the case of Representative Robert D. Inglis, a 33-year-old freshman Republican from South Carolina whose starched white shirt and close-cropped hair make him look more like an agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation than the paunchy, backslapping Southern Congressman of lore.
After the House banking scandal sent a shiver of rage through the country about special treatment for members of Congress, the leadership scurried to set a fee of $400 for the gymnasium. But increasing the fee into the vicinity of market value was not good enough for Mr. Inglis. He has sent the House Gym Association a check for $520 and a letter explaining that he had calculated the amount he would have to pay for a "nicer" health club in his Greenville, S. C., district, and hence would pay no less for the House gym.
 
Setting His Own Term Limit
 Perhaps the association is still puzzling over this uncommon bout of saintliness, because Mr. Inglis received no reply. Washington has not always been a place associated with virtue. Indeed, the city's career politicians have been more likely to evoke Aristotle's maxim that "there are some jobs in which it is impossible for a man to be virtuous."
"Some of the older members hope that this reform business is a phenomenon that will pass," said Mr. Inglis, who has set his own term limit of six years in the House. "But they are sadly mistaken. This train won't be stopped."
Unlike some of his more freewheeling colleagues, Mr. Fingerhut said he would use his frequent-flier miles to lower his travel expenses by buying more tickets to fly home to his district.
"You might laugh, but I feel very strongly about the ethics of frequent-flier miles," he said. "We bought these things with taxpayer dollars, and it's outrageous when people use them to go to Hawaii."
Representative Roscoe G. Bartlett, a freshman Republican from Maryland who lives within commuting distance of the Capitol, boasts that he has not yet submitted his first expense account, and hopes not to submit any. "I want to make a statement that it is not money that brought me here," he said. "I just want to serve the people."
Mr. Bartlett, a 66-year-old former college teacher who has a comfortable investment income, says he has given up half his $130,000 salary to set up scholarships for high school students in his western Maryland district, and has introduced a bill that would link Congressional pay to performance.
In a "Dear Colleague" letter, Mr. Bartlett urged "members to put their money where there [sic] mouth has been when it comes to cutting the deficit."
The bill would index the salaries of members to reductions in the Federal deficit. For every $100 billion in the deficit, Congressional salaries would be cut by 2 percent, and each year the percentage per $100 billion would double. But Mr. Bartlett did add a sweetener: "In the year the budget is balanced, all salaries will be doubled for that single year."
And then there is the attempt of Mr. Goss, the Florida Congressman, to tax colleagues who insert comments in the Congressional Record that are not relevant to the day's business.
With members of Congress, relevant is clearly a relative concept.
Take this entry in the March 4 Congressional Record from Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey: "Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, March 7, 1993, in Red Bank, N. J., the Monmouth-Ocean County Council of the Jewish War Veterans of the United States of America will hold its annual Wyatt Earp Law Enforcement Day breakfast to honor their local law enforcement men of the year. . . . The annual event also honors the memory of two legendary Jewish law men, Marshall Wyatt Earp and former New York City Police Chief Jacob Hays."
Mr. Goss conceded that some of this season's "funny little bills" are intended not so much to save money, but to improve the credibility of Congress.
Credibility does not come cheap. Mr. Goss's two-page bill, for instance, costs about $500 a page to print.
Asked whether anyone might put in a bill to limit the time and money spent producing frivolous bills, Mr. Goss replied, "That's not a bad idea."
Perhaps the task will fall to Representative Spencer Bachus, a freshman Republican from Alabama who sent out photocopies of a news release proposing a 25 percent cut in all Government printing and reproduction.
Mr. Inglis, the South Carolina Congressman, has joined with a Democratic freshman, Representative Bart Stupak of Michigan, to introduce a bill to stop departing members from buying the furniture in their district offices at reduced prices.
As a news release from his office pointed out, with great umbrage, Mr. Inglis "was left with only a vinyl lime-green swivel chair in his Greenville, S. C., office." (Pictures of the chair are available upon request.)
Even with a spate of bills intended to rub some of the tarnish off Congress, Mr. Stupak said, he believed it will take a long time to improve the institution's abysmal image. "We'll start at some of the little things that have been nickel-and-diming us to death," the Congressman said. "Those are more repulsive to a lot of the public than expenditures like the huge military buildup."
Harking back to the image of Congress in its palmier, more prodigal days, Mr. Stupak said it is hard for him to identify with that era.
"You sure won't find the freshman class out drinking and philandering every night," he said, adding that he wants to make his mark in Washington "not by grabbing headlines or having an extra brewski with a colleague and slapping them on the back, but by hard work."
"We take the job seriously," he said. "Maybe too seriously."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Porter J. Goss suggested that lawmakers be charged $600 each time they add anything to the Congressional Record that does not pertain to legislative business. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES; ETHICS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; FRINGE BENEFITS LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (77%); ETHICS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); 

PERSON: RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR); GOSS, PORTER (REPR) ; DOWD, MAUREEN CHARLES B RANGEL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1993

 
