

601 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
international
COMMUNISTS IN INDIA FIGHT
To Hold On to Relevancy
In the last 33 years, India's Communists have built a political dynasty in West Bengal, staging one of the most remarkable runs in any democracy by winning seven consecutive statewide elections. This would seem to be a ripe moment to expand their influence. Instead, the country's Communists are struggling to remain relevant. PAGE A6
RACE TO BUILD IN WEST BANK 
Less than four weeks since the end of Israel's building freeze in the West Bank, hundreds of units are under construction in dozens of settlements there, settler leaders and antisettlement advocates said. PAGE A6
PEACE IN TIJUANA IN DOUBT
An elaborate ceremony was held in Tijuana to burn the 134 tons of marijuana seized earlier in the week. The narrative of federal and local officials is that Tijuana has become a safer place, where the narcotics cartels are on the run. But the question on the minds of many is whether this is a fragile peace, or even peace at all. PAGE A8
FRANCE PUSHES PENSION BILL
As unions called for new national protests, the French government acted to short-circuit a lengthy debate in the Senate on opposition amendments to a bill that would raise the retirement age. PAGE A10
MYANMAR ELECTION DOUBTS
With just over two weeks until the first elections in Myanmar in 20 years, a United Nations envoy has questioned the fairness of the vote. The ruling junta, which has shown itself supremely unconcerned by criticism from the world body, pressed ahead with its government makeover. PAGE A11
PAKISTAN AVERTS CLASH
Pakistan's Supreme Court directed Parliament to reconsider its efforts to amend the Constitution to claim greater power over higher-court appointments. PAGE A12
national
STORMING STATEHOUSES
With Plans for Jobs
Few issues have inspired as much voter anger this campaign season, or as many caustic campaign commercials, as the issue of jobs and how to put Americans back to work. Democrats and Republicans in the 37 races for governor this year have been busy outlining specific policies to reshape the economy one job at a time. PAGE A14
AVERAGE COLLEGE DEBT RISES
College seniors who graduated in 2009 had an average of $24,000 in student loan debt, up 6 percent from 2008, according to an annual report from the Project on Student Debt. PAGE A15
MONEY POLICIES AND WOMEN
As one of its closing arguments before the midterm elections, the Obama administration is highlighting the impact its economic policies have had on women. A report released by the National Economic Council described scores of policies that it said had promoted women's economic security. PAGE A16
ADS ATTACK LAVISH LIFESTYLES
Living small is the new living large, at least when it comes to candidates running for election in November. With unemployment at 9.6 percent and the economy still struggling, the latest vogue in political ads is attacking the other guy for living it up. PAGE A19
new york
IMMIGRANT PARDON PANEL
Approaches Deadline
Gov. David A. Paterson caused a national stir by announcing a state effort to speed the granting of pardons to immigrants facing deportation for old or minor criminal convictions. Nearly six months later, that initiative is finally coming to fruition. But for hundreds of petitioners, time is running out. PAGE A24
Business
FIGHT OVER A ROAD
In Oil Sands Effort
International oil companies are angling to use U.S. Highway 12 to ship gargantuan loads of equipment from Vancouver, Wash., to Montana and the tar sands of Alberta. Canada. The companies say the route would save time and money and provide a vital economic lift for Montana and Idaho. But some local residents object. PAGE B1
TOYOTA ANNOUNCES RECALL
The Toyota Motor Company announced a global recall of 1.53 million vehicles because of brake and fuel-pump problems, but stressed that the repairs reflected a companywide effort to be more active in addressing flaws. PAGE B3
INFLATION CONCERN IN CHINA
China's roaring economy slowed in the third quarter, rising at an annual rate of 9.6 percent after the government took steps to prevent overheating, according to data. But inflation last month hit its highest rate in nearly two years. The government said the consumer price index, rose 3.6 percent from the previous September. PAGE B3
Weekend
A SINGER FROM EVERYWHERE,
Arrives in the United States
The music of Spanish singer Buika draws on such a wide range of influences, from jazz and flamenco to pop, soul and African polyrhythm, that it sometimes seems as if she is from everywhere at once and nowhere in particular. She arrived in the United States last week to begin her first extended tour of North America. PAGE C1
THE COACH STANDS
''Lombardi,'' a biographical drama of the legendary football coach Vince Lombardi by Eric Simonson, seems to depend heavily on a playbook that emphasizes the importance of team effort, almost relegating Lombardi to a supporting role in his own story, Charles Isherwood writes. PAGE C1
sports
GIANTS REVOLVING
Around Their Rotation
Every team that is good enough to reach the postseason is good enough to get hot for a few games. Strikeout pitchers, airtight defense and a strong closer are said to be critical elements, and the San Francisco Giants have those. And with five one-run wins this postseason, their haphazard roster has the right intangibles to win, Tyler Kepner writes. PAGE B13
N.B.A. EYES CUT IN SALARIES
The N.B.A. wants to slash player income by at least $750 million annually -- a stance that could trigger a lockout next summer. PAGE B15
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A35
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); STUDENT LOANS (84%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); CANNABIS (74%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); RETIREMENT AGE (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (65%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); GOVERNORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST BENGAL, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); FRANCE (92%); MYANMAR (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



602 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobless Claims Fell Last Week

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- New claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, government data showed Thursday, pointing to some improvement in the labor market.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell 23,000 to a seasonally adjusted 452,000, the Labor Department said. 
Despite the drop, claims remain perched above levels usually associated with a strong job market recovery.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast claims falling to 455,000 from the previously reported 462,000. The government revised the prior week's figure up to 475,000.
Last week's claims data covered the survey period for the government's October nonfarm payrolls report. A Labor Department official said only the Virgin Islands' claims had been estimated in the most recent week and noted the previous week's claims number had been pushed up by administrative factors.
The labor market has stumbled as the economy's recovery from the most painful recession in 70 years fizzled, leaving the jobless rate at an uncomfortably high 9.6 percent.
Last week, the four-week average of new jobless claims, considered a better measure of underlying labor market trends, fell 4,250 to 458,000.
Claims for jobless benefits have moved sideways for much of this year and continue to hold below a nine-month high touched in mid-August.
The number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid dropped 9,000 to 4.44 million in the week ended Oct. 9, the lowest level since the week ending June 26, from an upwardly revised 4.45 million the prior week.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast so-called continuing claims edging up to 4.41 million from a previously reported 4.40 million.
The number of people on emergency benefits increased 152,112 to 4.04 million in the week that ended Oct. 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



603 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Shares Continue to Rise On Strong Earnings Data

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Shares closed slightly higher on Thursday, after a day of seesawing despite corporate earnings reports that were generally upbeat.
Fresh from a strong performance on Wednesday, when the three major indexes each rose about 1 percent or more, the markets surged early Thursday. The Dow Jones industrial average was up more than 100 points at one point.
But indexes then slipped, a move that analysts attributed partly to profit-taking and a rise in the dollar, which is usually accompanied by a lower equities market. 
''It seems to me the sell-off today was pretty much tied to trading the relationship between the dollar index and the stock market,'' said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management. ''The other piece that is going on is there is just more of that mortgage malaise.''
Financial shares have been struggling to overcome the continuing foreclosure crisis. State attorneys general have announced an investigation into foreclosure processes.
Jason Arnold, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets Corporation, said mortgage issues ''certainly weighed on the bigger names.''
Shares of Bank of America fell 39 cents, or more than 3 percent, to $11.36.
Citigroup shares declined 4 cents, or nearly 1 percent, to $4.07.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.60 points, or 0.35 percent, to 11,146.57.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 2.09 points, or 0.18 percent, to 1,180.26.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.28 points, or 0.09 percent, to 2,459.67.
The price on the 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32, to 100 22/32. The yield rose to 2.55 percent from 2.48 percent late Wednesday.
New earnings reports have helped fuel increases on Wall Street since Tuesday, and earnings reports Thursday from Caterpillar, United Parcel Service, AT&T and other bellwether companies matched or exceeded expectations, helping to lift indexes.
Caterpillar said that its sales increased 53 percent, to $11.13 billion in the third quarter, and that it expected continued growth in 2011.
It revised its profit outlook for this year to $3.80 to $4 a share, up from $3.15 to $3.85.
Caterpillar is closely watched because of the international nature of its business, and because it often provides an outlook for economic performance over a subsequent period, said Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company.
In its earnings presentation, the company acknowledged that the recovery in the United States was weak, saying developing economies were leading its growth.
Some other companies have also attributed their growth to international markets.
In a statement, Caterpillar said, ''2010 is shaping up to be one of the most significant year-over- year increases in sales and revenues in our history.''
Yet Caterpillar shares declined 99 cents, or 1.24 percent, to $78.89.
The decline may be because the company issued a cautious outlook for the growth of global sales to dealers in 2011.
''That is why the stock has retreated from where it was earlier in the session,'' said Robert F. McCarthy Jr., an analyst with Robert W. Baird Company.
Another reason could be that the company's commentary on growth in its engine business seemed slightly more cautious than expected, said Robert Wertheimer, an analyst with Morgan Stanley.
AT&T, the telecommunications company, met analysts' estimates in its third-quarter earnings, which showed revenue rose 2.8 percent, to $31.6 billion. Shares of AT&T fell 27 cents, or 0.94 percent, to $28.34.
Weekly jobless claims fell more than expected.Initial claims for unemployment benefits fell 23,000, to a seasonally adjusted 452,000, the Labor Department reported.
Mr. Greenhaus said that the decline in jobless claims was a welcome drop but that ''meaningful job creation remains elusive.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



604 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: No Net For the Man In Charge

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
GUILLAUME DUFRESNOY, the artistic director of the Big Apple Circus, has always worked close to the edge, one way or another.
Mr. Dufresnoy began his circus career as an aerialist, making magic with a partner some 45 feet up. This season, after almost two decades in management at Big Apple, he faces his biggest challenge yet. Promoted to artistic director in the midst of a tour last year, he is for the first time responsible for creating a show that both carries on the Big Apple tradition and takes into account a recession-gouged budget in an era of tough competition for family audiences.
At stake is not just Mr. Dufresnoy's reputation but also a 33-year-old circus whose cachet hinges on intimacy: no seat is more than 50 feet away, and up to 1,700 people can sit in a one-ring tent, compared with the razzle-dazzle of three-ring competitors. Over the years critics have praised the family-oriented, unpretentious Big Apple, whose New York season at Damrosch Park began on Thursday, as a whimsical marriage of traditional theater and classical circus. 
''I have inherited a beloved institution: it's not like, 'Here's a circus, do whatever you want with it,' '' Mr. Dufresnoy said the other day after a performance in Manville, N.J., the previous tour stop. ''This is the Big Apple circus! What's crucial to me is yes, to be a keeper of the flame and yet push the envelope a little bit, go visit slightly new territory.''
One example, he said, is to work with creative teams that are not familiar with the circus. ''Next year it will be a team that has done mostly opera,'' the French-born Mr. Dufresnoy said in the soft accent of his native Bordeaux. (His surname is pronounced Dew-fren-WAH.). ''The following year it will be a very theatrical director. It will give us a variety of styles and images.''
Audiences will decide if he has brought fresh elements to the show, said Dominique Jando, a renowned circus artist, teacher and circus historian who is also a former associate artistic director of Big Apple. ''It's like everything else in show business -- does the show jell or not?'' Mr. Jando said. ''In the case of the Big Apple, they have 50 percent repeat audiences in places like New York and Boston, so they are tougher.''
''I've seen Guillaume growing into this business,'' Mr. Jando continued. He mentioned a ''charming act'' created by Mr. Dufresnoy last year that involved two dancers doing acrobatic tricks with dogs, which he called ''a good sign'' for Big Apple's future. Much of what is innovative in the circus is happening in Europe these days, he said, where there are more circuses and more circus schools.
Mr. Dufresnoy said he fished for ideas and talent all over the world. This season's edition, ''Dance On!,'' is a $3.6 million production about the universality of dance that features 35 people, 13 horses, 3 goats and 5 dogs.
Despite an operating budget that dropped to $17 million from $22 million two years ago, as well as staff layoffs and furloughs, ''nothing has changed in the investment in the product,'' said the newest lord of the ring.
Still, the usual 10-month tour has been whittled to 8 months, with a focus on the Northeast corridor. ''Dance On!'' is shorter and faster-paced than last season's offering, ''Bello Is Back!,'' because Mr. Dufresnoy likes it that way and because it's in keeping with circus trends in this country.
The visual cacophony this year includes a troupe of Chinese men and women jumping ropes on unicycles; skinny young Kenyan men balancing one another on their shoulders and climbing poles; tiny Mongolian girls twisting their bodies like pretzels; and goats leaping onto the backs of horses. The ever-popular Grandma the clown (Barry Lubin in a frumpy gray wig) is there as well, swinging through the air with a child plucked from the audience. Kevin Venardos is back for a second season as ringmaster.
''This is my dream job,'' Mr. Dufresnoy said the other day at Lincoln Center, watching the tent go up. ''Being at the helm of the Big Apple circus has a special, special significance.''
At 50, he is tall and trim and calls himself ''a real gypsy'' because he lives in a 28-foot trailer. His start was more prosaic. He studied engineering and math and joined the French Navy before falling in love with the circus.
''Like so many things there is a woman involved,'' he said with a laugh, mentioning a sweetheart who was a gymnast and circus fan who piqued his interest in the profession.
Mr. Dufresnoy enrolled in the Conservatoire National des Arts du Cirque in Paris, and went on to create an aerial perch act with Frederique Vanetti, called Les Casaly, that performed in Europe. Then, he and Mireille Fenwick created another celebrated aerial act, also called Les Casaly, that they brought to the Big Apple from 1987 to 1990.
He became performance director in 1991, then vice president and general manager in 1997, which made him No. 2 under the founder, Paul Binder. As only the second artistic director in Big Apple history, Mr. Dufresnoy is stepping into huge shoes: Mr. Binder was the ringmaster and public face of the circus.
By the time Mr. Dufresnoy arrived, Big Apple was a New York holiday tradition, up there with ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular'' and ''The Nutcracker.'' It is a measure of Big Apple's status that the drama behind the circus -- from Mr. Binder's retirement to Mr. Lubin's battle with cancer -- has been captured in the six-hour documentary ''Circus,'' to be broadcast on PBS beginning on Nov. 3.
But between Broadway and Disney and new shows from Cirque du Soleil, the family holiday entertainment field is more crowded than ever, Mr. Binder said. Besides ticket sales and broader economic challenges, Mr. Dufresnoy walks an artistic tightrope in ushering Big Apple into a new era, he said.
''Guillaume wants to put his own stamp on it, but he's also aware that continuity is important,'' Mr. Binder said, adding that he was confident that Mr. Dufresnoy was up to the task. ''He has long-term experience in the circus and he is a wonderful manager who has clarity about what works and what doesn't.''
As part of his goal to explore new directions, one of Mr. Dufresnoy's first acts as artistic director was to hire a guest director, Eric Michael Gillett. Mr. Gillett is a vocalist and writer who has extensive Broadway acting credits (including ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Sweet Smell of Success'') and is also a former Ringling Brothers ringmaster.
Mr. Gillett pitched the idea for a show that everyone could dance to. ''Circus people, at their best, move with something other than just their heads and their arms,'' he said. ''They move with their souls.'' Mr. Gillett described Mr. Dufresnoy's role in the show: ''He's the father. He has to teach it to walk and run and play well with others.''
But one thing Mr. Dufresnoy won't be doing is performing. Nov. 24, 1991, was the last time he was up in the air. He quit at his peak, he said, and envisions running away from the circus only when he loses his passion.
Circus life, he said, ''remains absolutely fascinating, even after all these years.''
Big Apple Circus performances continue through Jan. 9 at Damrosch Park, Lincoln Center Plaza; bigapplecircus.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barry Lubin, better known to circus regulars as Grandma the Clown, flying on wires at the Big Apple Circus, which has a new artistic director, Guillaume Dufresnoy, a former aerialist. (C1)
 Guillaume Dufresnoy, ringmaster of the Big Apple Circus, and, below, a pole act at the circus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); DOGS (71%); HISTORY (70%); DANCERS (65%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (96%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



605 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Communists In India Fight To Hold On To a Mission

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CALCUTTA -- Lenin's statue still rises near the center of the city, and portraits of Stalin and Marx still hang inside the biggest union hall. Anyone doubting the local political dominance -- and cold war humor -- of India's Communists need only visit the street in front of the United States Consulate: It was long ago renamed for Ho Chi Minh.
In the past 33 years, India's Communists have built a political dynasty here in the state of West Bengal, staging one of the most remarkable runs in any democracy by winning seven consecutive statewide elections. This would seem to be a ripe moment to expand their influence: India is a nation of deep inequities, with millions of destitute farmers and laborers disconnected from an increasingly capitalistic economy.
Instead, the country's Communists are struggling to remain relevant. For years, they have largely failed to capture the imagination and the support of the masses beyond their regional strongholds of West Bengal and the state of Kerala. And now even their three-decade hold over West Bengal is disintegrating as critics accuse them of betraying the rural peasantry and presiding over the decline of a state once regarded as an intellectual and economic center of India. 
''I never thought I would write against them,'' said Mahasweta Devi, one of West Bengal's most famous intellectuals and a social reformer who is now deeply critical of the governing Left Front coalition, which is led by the Communists. ''Leftist politicians are losing the battle because they have not cared enough to deliver the goods to the people.''
Only six years ago, the Communists were kingmakers whose support enabled the Congress Party to form a rickety coalition national government. But that influence has steadily diminished; the Communists were trounced in the 2009 parliamentary elections and are facing the strong possibility of losing control of West Bengal in statewide elections next year.
Now the Congress Party is allied with Mamata Banerjee, the fiery political leader whose Trinamool Congress Party is favored to unseat the Communists next year. At the same time, Maoist rebels in the West Bengal countryside are a constant source of agitation. Analysts trace the Communist decline partly to the inevitable excesses of any party so long in power.
Institutions like the police, schools, universities and hospitals have become deeply politicized, critics say.
But the Communists have also been undermined by the same volatile political forces reverberating elsewhere in India, where industrialization is fueling conflicts over the control of land.
From the Writers' Building in Calcutta, known as Kolkata in India, the British once ran colonial India. But in the hulking red brick edifice, which now serves as the seat of power in West Bengal, there is the feel of the last months of another crumbling empire.
''I don't think it is a crime to be in government for 33 years with the mandate of the people in a parliamentary democracy,'' said Dr. Surjya Kanta Mishra, the state minister of health, sighing when asked whether the Left Front coalition had held power too long. But, he conceded, ''there has been some erosion in our support base.''
To a large degree, the Communists' problems are rooted in their early success. When a Communist-led coalition of leftist parties took power in 1977, they began a sweeping campaign that redistributed land to small farmers and codified legal protections for tenant farmers. Today, roughly 84 percent of rural land in West Bengal is owned by ordinary peasants, compared with a national average of about 43 percent. Politically, the Communists also sought to decentralize power by establishing village-level assemblies known as panchayats, a model that has since been emulated nationwide.
''It has been the poor and marginal farmers who actually gained the power in rural areas,'' said Nirupam Sen, the state's commerce minister, who, like other leftists, argues that the new land policies broke a feudal structure that had existed for centuries.
Yet distributing land into smaller parcels has brought new challenges, as families have kept growing while immigrants have flowed into West Bengal from poorer states, as well as bordering Bangladesh. West Bengal is a top producer of rice and other crops, yet anchoring the economy around agriculture saw the state steadily slip in national rankings of economic output.
''Land holdings are getting smaller and smaller,'' Mr. Sen said. ''Therefore, what is the next stage? You have to go to industry.''
When the Communists won re-election in 2006, the chief minister, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, campaigned on a pro-industry slogan of ''Destination Bengal,'' promising to attract factories and jobs. Since then, development officials say the number of Internet technology jobs has nearly tripled to more than 100,000, despite a perception that the state has largely missed India's economic boom.
But it was the highest-profile industrial project, a planned car factory for India's most famous corporate conglomerate, Tata, that became a debacle as farmers revolted against the land acquisition -- and political opponents like Ms. Banerjee pounced on the story line that the Communists had sold out the peasants.
''They talk about the farmers, but they are the party and the government who take away land forcibly,'' said Partha Chatterjee, a top Trinamool Congress official, who is leader of the opposition in the State Assembly.
The Tata factory was canceled in 2008 and plunged the Left Front coalition into recriminations and re-examination. Meanwhile, outside critics blamed Communist leadership for a broader governance breakdown, saying that the quality of institutions had eroded as party loyalty and ideology became paramount.
Laveesh Bhandari and Bibek Debroy, economists who together wrote a critical 2009 report, documented a steady slippage in performance from policing to health care to education, finding that the state had fallen behind in school dropout rates, in average class size and in jobless rates for those who manage to get an education.
''For all the talk about equity and removal of inequalities, the West Bengal government hasn't been able to improve the lot of the people in the worst-off and backward districts,'' they wrote.
West Bengal voters will decide on the Left Front next year. In political circles, Ms. Banerjee is rated a strong favorite, though few analysts discount the Communist political machine. Yet the prospect of defeat is already inspiring introspection.
''Marxist politics has come to a critical juncture,'' said Kshiti Goswami, the public works minister and a member of one of the smaller parties in the Left Front. He argued that India had a ''historical need'' for the Left Front but that his fellow Marxists needed to examine why Communism had fared poorly in other states compared with caste-based parties.
''What is the way?'' he asked, suggesting that Latin America might offer clues. ''How it can be done is a great question. That is why this is a historic juncture.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Portraits of Stalin, Marx, Lenin, Engels, Mao and Ho Chi Minh line the walls of a union hall in Calcutta. India's Communists have built a political dynasty in the state of West Bengal, but their three-decade hold there is disintegrating as critics accuse them of presiding over the state's decline. (A6)
 Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, chief minister in West Bengal and the Communists' leader, wants to attract factories and jobs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMI SIVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); WRITERS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (91%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (97%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



606 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 3091 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Movies
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'Alpha and Omega' (PG, 1:28) This animated film about talking wolves in the Canadian Rockies that learn lessons about cooperation and love occasionally has a touch of old-fashioned grandeur in its western vistas, but otherwise it's funny-animal and noble-beast business as usual. (Mike Hale)20101021
'Budrus' (No rating, 1:22, in Arabic, Hebrew and English) Julia Bacha's engrossing, sometimes inspiring documentary recounts the pioneering efforts in nonviolent protest undertaken by the residents of the Palestinian village of Budrus in the West Bank. (Hale)20101021
- 'Carlos' (No rating, in English, French, Spanish, Japanese, German, Arabic, Russian and Hungarian) An excited, exciting, epic dramatization about the international terrorism brand known as Carlos the Jackal (Edgar Ramirez) from the wildly talented French director Olivier Assayas. Try to catch the five-hour version. (Manohla Dargis)20101021 
'Case 39' (R, 1:49) Radiating a distinctly retro vibe, this throwaway addition to the diminutive-demon genre features Renee Zellweger as a harried social worker who unwisely fosters an at-risk 10-year-old (an exceptional Jodelle Ferland). Working methodically and without irrelevant motion, the German director Christian Alvart is consistently undermined by a screenplay (by Ray Wright) more interested in following formula than breaking new ground. (Dargis)20101021
'Catfish' (PG-13, 1:26) A sloppy, shallow, ethically compromised documentary and also a fascinating document of life, love and self-creation in the age of Facebook. (A. O. Scott)20101021
'Conviction' (R, 1:46) Hilary Swank plays Betty Anne Warren, a New England woman who dedicates her life to exonerating her brother, Kenny (Sam Rockwell), who is serving a life sentence for murder. Based on a true story, this melodrama starts out strong and interesting, but then becomes plodding and earnest -- a made-for-TV movie with superior acting. (Scott)20101021
'Devil' (PG-13, 1:20) This serviceable burst of high-end hokum traps five strangers in an elevator in a Philadelphia office tower, all harboring sins in dire need of atonement. Classing up a flimsy, religion-themed plot (by M. Night Shyamalan) with the kind of limber cinematography only someone like Tak Fujimoto can deliver, the director John Erick Dowdle remains cool when the lights fail and the blood begins to flow. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20101021
'Down Terrace' (R, 1:33) Steeped in working-class angst, the black comedy about the unraveling of a crime British family has the look and feel of a Mike Leigh or early Ken Loach film about dead-end lives. (Stephen Holden)20101021
'Easy A' (PG-13, 1:33) Whatever else it accomplishes, the sassy high school comedy ''Easy A'' commands attention for the irresistible presence of Emma Stone, playing a good girl who pretends to be bad. (Holden)20101021
- 'Enter the Void' (No rating, 2:17, in French) This is your brain. This is your brain on a Gaspar Noe movie. (Dargis)20101021
'The Girl Who Played With Fire' (No rating, 2:09, in Swedish) Lisbeth Salander returns, framed for murder and embroiled in an investigation that leads in the direction of her monstrous father. This Swedish-language adaptation of the second novel in Stieg Larsson's best-selling trilogy is better than its predecessor, but apart from Noomi Rapace's ferocious performance as Lisbeth, it doesn't rise about the level of not-bad television. (Scott)20101021
'Heartbreaker' (No rating, 1:44, in French) This slapstick-infused French imitation of a Hollywood romantic comedy is saved by Romain Duris's frisky portrayal of an ethical gigolo who is hired to break up mismatched couples, without sleeping with the women. (Holden)20101021
- 'Hereafter' (PG-13, 2:09) Neither the director, Clint Eastwood, nor the screenwriter, Peter Morgan, are names that come to mind when you think of ghost stories, which may be why this contemplative venture into supernaturalism seems so strange and persuasive. Three stories run in parallel, converging at the end and leaving a haunting sense of possibility in their wake. (Scott)20101021
- 'Howl' (No rating, 1:30) Not your standard biopic. Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman's film uses the documentary record, some rather literal-minded animation (by Eric Drooker) and the talents of James Franco to recreate the time, place and impact of Allen Ginsberg's ''Howl.'' A rare and genuine work of literary criticism on film, this movie has the power to return you to a great poem with fresh eyes and ears. (Scott)20101021
- 'I Am Love' (No rating, 2:00, in Italian) A visually lush melodrama from Luca Guadagnino about the young matriarch (Tilda Swinton) of a wealthy Milanese family whose passions and suffering fuel this art-house gloss on the women's picture. (Dargis)20101021
- 'Idiots and Angels' (No rating, 1:21) Hand-drawn in swirling pencil lines, the dystopia conjured by Bill Plympton's sixth and best animated feature suggests Toulouse-Lautrec by way of Charles Bukowski. (Holden)20101021
- 'Inside Job' (PG-13, 1:45) Charles Ferguson's anatomy of the 2008 financial disaster is meticulous, informative and infuriating. In a strong year for documentaries, this one is essential viewing. (Scott)20101021
'It's Kind of a Funny Story' (PG-13, 1:41) Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck (''Half Nelson,'' ''Sugar'') turn Ned Vizzini's young-adult loony-bin adventure into a wry, sensitive story of teenage confusion. Keir Gilchrist is Craig, a New York high school student whose suicidal thoughts land him in the psychiatric wing of a large hospital. It turns out to be a friendly place, where he meets an eccentric mentor (Zach Galifianakis) and a girl (Emma Roberts). There is something cautious and a little patronizing about the movie, which feels as if it were made by responsible adults trying, with all good intentions, to reach out to the youth. (Scott)20101021
'Jackass 3D' (R, 1:34) America's favorite jackasses are back, making mischief in stunts and skits of varying ambition and impact in three generally unmemorable dimensions. Jeff Tremaine directed, though he probably just stood around laughing. (Dargis)20101021
- 'Last Train Home' (No rating, 1:27, in Mandarin language and Sichuan dialect) Lixin Fan's wrenching and compassionate documentary examines a complex and overwhelming social phenomenon -- the role of migrant laborers in China's fast-changing economy -- from the standpoint of a family that is tested and fractured by globalization. (Scott)20101021
'Leaving' (No rating, 1:25, in French) A proper bourgeois wife and mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) and an earthy (more like furry) day laborer (Sergi Lopez) embark on an illicit affair in an increasingly improbable French drama from Catherine Corsini. (Dargis)20101021
'Legend of the Guardians: the Owls of Ga'Hoole' (PG, 1:30) Or (after Harry Potter's postal pet) ''Hedwig of the Rings.'' Zack Snyder, director of ''300,'' aims for younger males with this animated all-avian opus based on Kathryn Lasky's books. And it's a hoot, full of winged warriors in helmets and metal claws, swooping vengefully in slow-motion conflagration. Each feather, sunset and 3-D perspective is rendered impeccably, and the voice talent, much of it Australian, is top-notch. But a trite setup (and some retrograde female characterizations) keep it from soaring. (Andy Webster)20101021
- 'Let Me In' (R, 1:55) This remake of the spooky, heartfelt Swedish vampire film ''Let the Right One In'' is full of strange emotions and effects, not the least of which are two haunting and subtle performances, by Kodi Smit-McPhee as a misfit 12-year-old boy and Chloe Grace Moretz as the undead girl who eases his loneliness. The director, Matt Reeves (''Cloverfield''), uses some of the techniques of horror to create feelings far weirder and more interesting than fear and suspense. Not that horror fans will be disappointed. (Scott)20101021
'Life As We Know It' (PG, 1:55) It's enough to say that this bland romantic comedy (starring an abrasive Katherine Heigl) is well made for its corporate type. But there is not a single deviation from rom-com formula. (Holden)20101021
'Machete' (R, 1:45) The pace is swift, the tone playful, and the screenplay peppered with one-liners in this splatter comedy that takes on the immigration debate. Whether mowed down by gunfire or dispatched by sheaves of blades, the bodies pile up in split-second blasts of carnage. (Holden)20101021
'Mao's Last Dancer' (PG, 1:57) In Bruce Beresford's film, based on the true story of a Chinese dancer who was allowed to come to Houston to study in the early 1980s and subsequently defected, ballet and modern Chinese history are window dressing for what's essentially a deluxe old-fashioned tear-jerker. (Hale)20101021
- 'Marwencol' (No rating, 1:23) Named for a tiny World War II-era town painstakingly constructed by Mark Hogancamp after his emergence from a beating-induced coma in 2000, Jeff Malmberg's documentary paints a multilayered portrait of an outsider artist. Populated by meticulously costumed Barbies and G. I. Joes, the town is a hotbed of sex, violence and betrayal fantasies that provide therapy for its creator and a record of his fascinating journey from near death to active life. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20101021
- 'Mesrine: Killer Instinct' (Part 1) and 'Mesrine: Public Enemy No. 1' (Part 2) (R, 1:53 and 2:14, in French) ''Mesrine'' may not be a tragic gangster epic in the tradition of the ''The Godfather'' movies; it is too flighty and episodic. But it has a monumental lead performance by Vincent Cassel. He fuses the cobralike menace of the young Robert Mitchum with the whipsaw, shape-shifting volatility of classic Robert De Niro. (Holden)20101021
'My Soul to Take' (R, 1:46) Wes Craven's first feature in five years is about seven teenagers born the night a serial killer died, each of whom inherited one aspect of his fractured personality. It follows the Craven recipe of comic pop-culture references mixed with dreamy shocks, but only a few fleeting moments have any of the old Craven poetry. (Hale)20101021
'Never Let Me Go' (R, 1:43) Mark Romanek directs this pretty, emotionally arid adaptation of the Kazuo Ishiguro novel, with Carey Mulligan, Andrew Garfield and Keira Knightley as three young people raised to become organ donators. (Dargis)20101021
'Nora's Will' (No rating, 1:32, in Spanish) A slight, sentimental film from the Mexican newcomer Mariana Chenillo about a woman who carefully stage-manages the aftermath of her death. A very fine Fernando Lujan plays the woman's former husband. (Dargis)20101021
'Nowhere Boy' (R, 1:37) Sam Taylor-Wood directs and Aaron Johnson stars in a prettily photographed melodrama about a tumultuous period in John Lennon's adolescence when maternal love blurred together with sex, ale and rock 'n' roll. (Manohla Dargis)20101021
'Nuremberg' (No rating, 1:18, in English and German) A painstaking reconstruction of Stuart Schulberg's documentary, commissioned by the United States military in 1945, about the first war-crimes trials of high-ranking German officials. Some of the footage of Nazi atrocities and their perpetrators is nearly as shocking now as it must have been just after the war, when the full scope of the horror was only beginning to be understood. (Scott)20101021
'Red' (PG-13, 1:51) An intriguing cast of mature performers -- including Bruce Willis, Helen Mirren, Morgan Freeman, John Malkovich and Brian Cox -- goes through the motions of a loud action-comedy based on a series of graphic novels. Better than it might have been, but not nearly as good as it should be. (Scott)20101021
- 'Samson and Delilah' (No rating, 1:41, in English and Warlpiri) This tale of two Aboriginal teenagers in Australia who are driven from their squalid village and end up with an even harsher life in the city is sparse in almost every sense: virtually no dialogue; bare-bones cinematography; little in the way of action. But it's rich in the way that matters most. If you have the patience for the languid pacing, these characters and their plight can really get to you. (Neil Genzlinger)20101021
'Secretariat' (PG, 1:56) Diane Lane plays Penny Chenery, the owner of the 1970s four-legged racing sensation, in a gauzy Disney movie that's as square as a military flattop. The director Randall Wallace whips the uplift until it's frothy. (Dargis)20101021
- 'The Social Network' (PG-13, 2:00) David Fincher, working from Aaron Sorkin's script, directs a fleet, weirdly funny, exhilarating, alarming, fictionalized look at the boot-up, log-on, plug-in generation and the man (Jesse Eisenberg as Mark Zuckerberg) behind the social-media phenomenon Facebook. Andrew Garfield and Justin Timberlake also star. (Dargis)20101021
'Stone' (R, 1:45) The director John Curran's recipe for pulp fiction: Dim the lights. Take Edward Norton (as a prisoner), Milla Jovovich (as a wife), Robert De Niro (as a prison official) and Frances Conroy (as another wife). Stir. (Dargis)20101021
'Tamara Drewe' (R, 1:47) Stephen Frears's fizzy pastoral sex farce -- adapted from Posy Simmonds's graphic novel, itself an updating of Thomas Hardy's ''Far From the Madding Crowd'' -- is mildly naughty, admirably frank in its approach to sex and finally not all that interesting. Gemma Arterton is the title character, who returns to her rural hometown to juggle three suitors: a rock star; a married, older novelist; and a hunky rustic swain. (Scott)20101021
'The Town' (R, 2:05) Ben Affleck directs and stars in this not-bad Boston crime thriller, with decent action, good performances -- notably from Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner and Blake Lively -- and some fine, if somewhat fetishized, local color. (Scott)20101021
'2012: Time for Change' (No rating, 1:25) Daniel Pinchbeck, who has made a small industry out of 2012 prophecies, uses this documentary to suggest that Big Change might not be catastrophic, but more along the lines of a global consciousness-raising that leaves everyone living in harmony with nature. But there is no effort to explore how boutique environmental projects -- all-natural water filtration, worm-filled composting boxes -- might be made to work on a global scale, and so the whole film just sounds naive. (Genzlinger)20101021
'Vision' (No rating, 1:51, in German) Margarethe von Trotta's sympathetic imagining of the life of the protofeminist 12th-century Benedictine nun, Hildegard von Bingen, offers a hard-headed view of religiosity in which church politics and money conflict with the characters' asceticism. (Holden)20101021
- 'Waiting for ''Superman'' ' (PG, 1:42) Davis Guggenheim's powerful, alarming documentary about America's failing public schools is a call to arms to modify a system that he portrays as held hostage by teachers' unions. The potential saviors are reformers like Geoffrey Canada, founder of the Harlem Children's Zone. (Holden)20101021
'Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps' (PG-13, 2:13) Gordon Gekko (Michael Douglas) returns in Oliver Stone's unwieldy and entertaining attempt at a moral anatomy of the financial debacle of 2008. If Mr. Stone misses the chance to turn that event into great drama, he nonetheless turns it into a sweeping, racing and intermittently pithy show. Shia LeBeouf is Gekko's would-be son-in-law; Carey Mulligan is the rogue financier's estranged daughter; and Josh Brolin is a suave titan of the Street who very nearly out-Gekkos Gekko. (Scott)20101021
'Winter's Bone' (R, 1:40) Debra Granik's flinty Ozark noir follows a teenage girl's search for her missing father, an expert methamphetamine cooker who has fallen afoul of his own outlaw kin. Jennifer Lawrence's lead performance is flawless and helps to lift this film above at least some of the usual independent-movie assumptions about rural poverty in America. (Scott)20101021
'You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger' (R, 1:38) Sexual longing and metaphysical emptiness with an all-start cast in London, written and directed by -- no points for guessing right! -- Woody Allen. (Scott)20101021
Film Series
Lucrecia Martel (Saturday) The Argentine filmmaker will be present to introduce her 2001 debut film, ''La Cienaga,'' at 12:30 p.m. on Saturday as part of a continuing series, ''The Ten Best Latin American Films of the Decade,'' presented by Cinema Tropical. Other films screening this week include Alfonso Cuaron's Mexican sex comedy ''Y Tu Mama Tambien'' (Saturday at midnight); Guillermo del Toro's elegant horror film ''Pan's Labyrinth'' (Sunday, 11 a.m.) and Carlos Reygadas's religious drama ''Silent Light'' (Monday, 8 p.m.). IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $13. (Dave Kehr)20101021
Stephin Merritt Presents: Gatherings at Country Houses (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Merritt, the leader of the band the Magnetic Fields and the subject of the current documentary ''Strange Powers,'' presents a selection of six films set in rural retreats, though this is not Merchant-Ivory territory but something darker. Mr. Merritt will be present to introduce Rene Clair's 1945 adaptation of Agatha Christie's ominous ''And Then There Were None'' at 7 p.m. on Friday; among the other films are Ingmar Bergman's ''Smiles of a Summer Night'' (Saturday at 6 p.m.), Jean Renoir's ''Rules of the Game'' (Sunday at 4 p.m.) and Harmony Korine's ''Mister Lonely'' (Sunday at 6:30 p.m.). 92Y TriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street , (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $12. (Kehr)20101021
To Save and Project (Friday through Monday, Wednesday and Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art's annual festival of recently preserved films continues with some widely varied programs, including a selection of avant-garde work by the colorist Paul Sharits (Saturday, 4 p.m.); Teinosuke Kinugasa's wildly experimental Japanese film of 1926, ''A Page of Madness,'' accompanied live by Ensemble N--JP, led by the composer and clarinetist Gene Coleman (Saturday, 7:30 p.m.); a pair of long unseen Andy Warhol films, ''Face'' and ''The Velvet Underground in Boston'' (Claire Henry of the Whitney Museum of American Art will introduce the 4:30 p.m. screening on Monday); and Pierre Schoendoerffer's grimly realistic tale of a French platoon in Indochina, ''The 317th Section.'' Mr. Schoendoerffer will be present for screenings on Monday at 6:30 p.m. and Wednesday at 4 p.m. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters , (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)20101021

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (74%); RELIGION (69%); SENTENCING (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (54%); MURDER (53%); TERRORISM (53%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (73%); NORTHEAST USA (52%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



607 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller's Race Pits a Wall Street Star Against an Albany Veteran: Running as a Pro; Vilified as a Tycoon

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
In the hyper-competitive and cutthroat world of Wall Street, Harry Wilson was a star.
In a meteoric 15-year career, he leapfrogged from one prestigious firm to another -- Goldman Sachs, Blackstone Group and Silver Point Capital -- earning more than $20 million and admiration from the industry's power players.
''I would say that Harry was one of the top two or three people that came through Blackstone at his level,'' said Bret D. Pearlman, a former Blackstone senior executive who spent 15 years at the firm and helped hire Mr. Wilson when he graduated from Harvard Business School.
Mr. Wilson specialized in restructuring troubled companies, and last year, with the financial crisis still reverberating, he set his sights on rescuing another floundering institution: New York State. 
After leaving the financial world at 36 and completing a much-praised turn on President Obama's auto-industry task force, he decided to run for state comptroller.
In dire times, he believed, voters would choose a financial professional to manage the state's finances.
Mr. Wilson, the Republican candidate, who is financing much of the race himself, said that he intended to turn the comptroller's office from what he has described as a backwater of state government into a powerful post that will play a leading role in cutting taxes and spending. He has been endorsed by The New York Times, The Daily News and The New York Post, but trails in polls.
While Mr. Wilson, who is 38, has boasted of his credentials as a financier, Thomas P. DiNapoli, the Democratic incumbent, has used those credentials to bludgeon him. He has painted Mr. Wilson as an out-of-touch hedge fund tycoon whose ''Wall Street values'' make him unsuitable for public office. In the candidates' only televised debate, Mr. DiNapoli cited ''Wall Street'' four times in a one-minute opening statement.
Though Mr. Wilson calls Mr. DiNapoli's attacks unfair, they have at times forced him to edge away from citing his own career.
He has fought back, dismissing Mr. DiNapoli as a financial novice and seeking to link him to his predecessor, Alan G. Hevesi, who resigned in disgrace in 2007, by bringing up Mr. DiNapoli's meetings with investment placement agents soon after taking office.
Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo cleared Mr. DiNapoli of any wrongdoing the same day that Mr. Hevesi pleaded guilty two weeks ago to taking part in a sprawling corruption scheme involving the public pension fund.
But Mr. Wilson, more wonk than firebrand, has struggled to gain traction, with a poll this week showing that most voters still were not familiar with him.
''He hasn't succeeded in breaking through the clutter for the public to even figure out who he is,'' said Scott Levenson of the Advance Group, a political consulting firm.
In white papers and policy reports, Mr. Wilson has outlined bold plans to revamp the comptroller's office, winning praise from economists and pension experts. Mr. Wilson's campaign has money -- $2.6 million on hand, compared with $1.4 million for Mr. DiNapoli, according to the most recent disclosure reports -- and Mr. Wilson said he planned to increase spending in the final days of the campaign. Since January, Mr. Wilson has lent his campaign at least $2.75 million.
Although Mr. Wilson has been interested in politics all his life, his first taste of political campaigning has left him exasperated with the no-holds-barred tactics of a statewide race.
''Whether it's accurate or not, whether it's telling or not, he's going to try to distort everything I've ever done in my life,'' Mr. Wilson said of his opponent in a recent interview.
Mr. Wilson's ascent follows an American archetype: the son of working-class parents; the first in his family to go to college; a self-made millionaire.
He traces his values not to Wall Street, but 200 miles north, to Johnstown, N.Y., a city of tanneries and textile mills, where he grew up watching his father work double shifts as a bartender and his mother, a Greek immigrant, fret over money.
The Wilsons' life revolved around the Rainbow, a Main Street restaurant owned by Mr. Wilson's uncle, Pete, where his father worked and where Harry helped bus tables and wash dishes through high school. The Rainbow doubled as the clubhouse for the local Republican Party, offering Mr. Wilson an early exposure to conservative politics.
From Johnstown, he went to Harvard, and then to Goldman Sachs, where he worked in the prestigious investment-banking-analyst program. He moved on to Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, a New York private-equity firm, before enrolling at Harvard Business School.
Despite Mr. Wilson's interest in running for office, his experience growing up in a family that worried about its budget made him determined to earn a lot of money before entering government.
''If I was going to go into public life, I was going to build enough of a nest egg to take care of my family first,'' said Mr. Wilson, who still looks the part of an investment banker, sporting Ferragamo ties and a Timex Ironman watch -- both de rigueur Wall Street accessories.
After a stint at Blackstone Group, the world's largest private-equity firm, where he worked on a team that pushed the firm into distressed-debt investing, he left to join Edward A. Mule, a mentor from Goldman Sachs. Mr. Mule was starting his own hedge fund, Silver Point, where Mr. Wilson went on to earn more than $20 million, according to documents released by his campaign. He left Silver Point in 2008 because he wanted to spend more time with his three young daughters (he now has four) and, he said, ''I felt I was insufficiently giving back.''
In January 2009, Mr. Wilson's first foray into public life began with a blind e-mail offering his expertise to Steven Rattner, the high-profile financier then gearing up to lead the White House's efforts to overhaul the auto industry.
Although Mr. Rattner had never heard of Mr. Wilson, he was impressed with his credentials and quickly brought him into the team. Mr. Wilson went to Detroit, where he worked grueling hours to restructure General Motors.
While Mr. Wilson's highly praised performance earned him job offers he called ''far more lucrative'' than the comptroller's office, he became fixed on the idea of helping to solve New York's fiscal problems.
But his crash course in bare-knuckle New York politics -- the taunts of ''Hedge Fund Harry'' and ''Don Juan of Wall Street,'' the false rumors that he was fired from his last job -- has been disillusioning.
''I didn't appreciate how broken this was until I was in it,'' he said. ''This is why good people don't go into public life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Wilson, the Republican candidate, campaigning in his hometown, Johnstown, this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); CORRUPTION (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (74%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (53%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



608 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Providing Equal Justice for the Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Need a Lawyer? Good Luck'' (editorial, Oct. 15):
It's truly sad -- and a blight on a nation that ends its Pledge of Allegiance with the words ''justice for all'' -- that providers of free legal representation to poor people in noncriminal cases are turning away more people than they help. Worse, it is negatively affecting our communities and taxpayers because justice denied today generates excessively high costs in undoing the damage tomorrow.
And worse still, today's shortsighted budget cutting by federal, state and local governments promises an acceleration of a bad trend. 
So, too, does the foreclosure crisis, which has resulted in unwarranted foreclosures that unemployed or low-income households can't effectively contest because they can't get appropriate legal counsel.
We need more than a restoration of misguided budget cuts. We need stable state funding for lawyers to represent people who cannot afford one in civil cases affecting the basic necessities of life.
As a member of the Task Force to Expand Access to Civil Legal Services, created by the chief judge of New York State, Jonathan Lippman, I applaud him for advocating to expand legal representation in civil matters to ensure that all citizens receive equal justice, regardless of their economic status.
Barbara Finkelstein Executive Director Legal Services of the Hudson Valley White Plains, Oct. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
The United States is committed to equal justice under law. There is no equal justice if people must forgo their rights because of poverty. Legal aid should be a matter of legal right in the United States. It is, and long has been, in countries with which we compare ourselves.
James R. Maxeiner Bronxville, N.Y., Oct. 15, 2010
The writer is associate director of the Center for International and Comparative Law, University of Baltimore School of Law.
To the Editor:
The Fund for Modern Courts, on behalf of the Task Force to Expand Access to Civil Legal Services, recently commissioned a survey that quantified the civil legal needs of low-income New Yorkers -- those living at or under 200 percent of the federal poverty guidelines (a family of four earning $44,100 or less a year). The extent of those needs is staggering.
The survey found that 47 percent of low-income New Yorkers have experienced legal problems over the last year involving housing, finances, employment, or health insurance or medical bills. That means almost three million low-income New Yorkers experienced legal problems last year.
Fair and equal justice for poor New Yorkers requires secure and consistent state financing for legal representation. With lawyers, many of the legal problems of low-income New Yorkers can be resolved before involving our already overburdened courts. And having a lawyer assures meaningful access to the courts when necessary.
Dennis R. Hawkins Executive Director Fund for Modern Courts New York, Oct. 18, 2010
To the Editor:
You urge Congress to increase the budget to the federally funded Legal Services Corporation (providing access to justice for those who cannot afford a lawyer) and to eliminate restrictions on its activities, most of which were enacted by a Republican Congress in the mid-1990s.
At the time, the conservative wing of the Republican Party, in a letter dated June 28, 1995, and addressed to Speaker Newt Gingrich, demanded the elimination of the corporation, characterizing it as ''reckless and irresponsible'' and carrying out an activist ''left-wing agenda.'' One signer of the letter was Representative John A. Boehner, who, if he becomes speaker of the House should his party win control of that chamber, would be better positioned to carry out that termination plan.
That is all the more reason that Congress should act after the election recess not only to increase the corporation's budget but also to protect its very existence through reauthorization legislation.
Alexander D. Forger New York, Oct. 18, 2010
The writer was president of Legal Services Corporation from 1994 to 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); WRITERS (73%); JUDGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL SERVICES OF THE HUDSON VALLEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



609 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Strong Gains For Amazon's 3rd Quarter

BYLINE: By VERNE KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- A sour economy failed to slow down Amazon.com, as the company's net sales climbed 39 percent in the third quarter.
The online retailer said consumer appetite for books and electronics remained strong. The results highlight Amazon's dominance in online retailing, especially ahead of the holiday shopping season. 
Iinvestors were disappointed, however, with the company's higher spending on new distribution centers. Analysts said they were concerned about the cost of the 10 giant warehouses that opened in the third quarter, which ended Sept. 30, and a handful more that are to open before the end of the year.
As a result, Amazon's shares fell 4.01 percent, to $158.35, in after-hours trading Thursday, after the earnings release. The decline reversed the gains earlier in the day during regular trading, when the company's shares closed at a record high.
Frederick Moran, an analyst with the Benchmark Company, lauded Amazon's performance in the face of the economic downturn, saying ''once again, Amazon's revenue growth looks extremely good, and it looks locked in more than one would expect.''
Amazon.com said on Thursday that net income in the quarter rose 16 percent, to $231 million, or 51 cents a share, from the same quarter last year. Net income was above the expectations of Wall Street analysts, who had predicted 48 cents a share, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
The company said revenue climbed 39 percent, to $7.56 billion, beating analyst predictions of $7.35 billion. Some of the increase in revenue was a result of last year's acquisition of Zappos.com, the online shoe retailer.
''Customers are responding in record numbers,'' Thomas J. Szkutak, chief financial officer for Amazon, said in a conference call.
Amazon's discount prices, wide selection of products and partnerships with other retailers to sell merchandise it does not offer have helped.
Jeffrey P. Bezos, chief executive, has aggressively led his company into the digital book market with its Kindle e-reader. Amazon has said that electronic books outsell hardcover books, a major shift in the public's reading habits since the Kindle was introduced three years ago.
Still, Amazon faces a growing number of challengers to its Kindle, and had to cut its price over the summer to better compete.
Amazon, based in Seattle, said sales in the quarter of media, including books and music, increased to $3.35 billion, up 14 percent. Electronics and other merchandise sales totaled $3.97 billion, up 68 percent.
Operating margins declined to 3.5 percent in the quarter, from 4.6 percent a year earlier, in part because of the added fulfillment centers. Mr. Moran, of Benchmark, said that discounting and the cut in price of the Kindle might also account for the drop.
''The Achilles' heel is that Amazon is amid this reinvestment cycle, Kindle prices are dropping and the competition for the Kindle is increasing,'' he said. ''Consumers may be spending more, but they are spending cautiously.''
Amazon said it expected fourth-quarter revenue of $12 billion to $13.3 billion. Analysts on average estimate that the company will have revenue of $12.3 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amazon's big investment in new distribution centers worried some investors, and its shares fell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (90%); ZAPPOS.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (53%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



610 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Tweaking Tradition, Even In Its Temple

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
If ''John Baldessari: Pure Beauty'' is any indication, the Metropolitan Museum of Art may finally be catching up to the 21st century. Granted, the museum has never met a century whose art it hasn't embraced. But its relationship to the latest thing has often felt forced and out of it.
Not so with its full-dress, lucidly installed retrospective of the art of John Baldessari, a tall, laconic Conceptual artist from California who turns 80 next year. The show may reach back nearly five decades, but it still has a hip quotient that is unusually high for the Met, given the expanses of hard-core Conceptual Art at its center -- texts, photographs, jokes, philosophical propositions, video, art about art and more photographs -- and the noticeable lack of conventional painting and sculpture.
Subtitle aside, the show is not, on the whole, a traditionally pretty sight. Visual pleasantry -- which is nothing to sneer at -- has never been Mr. Baldessari's main goal. His work amuses, unsettles, questions and makes you look twice and think thrice; laugh out loud; and in general gain a sharpened awareness of the overlapping processes of art-making, art viewing and art thinking. 
It is notable for its drolleries of language and image, occasional descents into outright corniness and flat-footed insistence on randomness, coincidence or uninflected information as the artist's main compositional options. It is also remarkable for its early grasp of the role that photographs -- both found and made, still and moving -- could play in opening art to the outside world and to the strangeness of everyday life, and for its determination that the viewer participate in the process of creating a work's meaning.
Mr. Baldessari's art is saved from its own rigors by his love of color, born of his beginnings as a painter, and his passion for film, or at least the film stills of obscure B-movies, to which he seems to have been led by his pursuit of photography in all forms. These elements converge with a surprisingly triumphal sweep in the show's final galleries in the large, handsome rebuslike photo-montage installations that he has developed, with increasing complexity and hand-painted bits, over the past quarter century.
Organized by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Tate Modern in London, and overseen at the Met by Marla Prather, senior consultant in the Met's department of 19th-century, modern and contemporary art, the exhibition occupies 11 galleries with more than 120 works from 1962 to 2010. Given Mr. Baldessari's cerebral mind-set, this sometimes verges on relentless.
You get a good dose of this mind-set at its strictest with the show's first work: ''A Painting That Is Its Own Documentation'' made in the late '60s. A landmark of Conceptual Art, this text painting in black on seven gray panels narrates its own life and exhibition history, starting with its inception (''June 19, 1968 Idea Conceived at 10:25 a.m.'') and its initial public showing, in Mr. Baldessari's first gallery solo, also in 1968, at the Molly Barnes Gallery in Los Angeles. The work was painted and has been amended by various professional sign painters, its size increasing with its exhibition history. (A panel was added to accommodate the listing of the current show.)
Mr. Baldessari was a prime mover in the Conceptual Art revolution, when the art object was in disrepute and ideas were pre-eminent. But this exhibition establishes him as more than that. It reveals his career as a vital, unbroken through line from Pop to 1970s Conceptual Art to 1980s appropriation art, a movement that is unthinkable without his unusually direct influence. (Several 1980s appropriation artists like David Salle, Jack Goldstein, Matt Mullican and Troy Brauntuch were his students at the California Institute of the Arts in the 1970s.) Mr. Baldessari managed this span partly by being 10 years older than most Conceptualists. He was born in 1931 (a year after Jasper Johns) and was already making art when most of his artistic peers were barely in high school.
The show unfolds in three acts, beginnings with a gallery of early Pop-oriented, proto-Conceptualist work from the 1960s that will take many people by surprise for the evocations of nearly contemporary art by Andy Warhol, Jim Dine, Claes Oldenburg and the precocious king of Los Angeles Pop, Ed Ruscha. (The 1963 grid of photographs titled ''The Backs of All the Trucks Passed While Driving From Los Angeles to Santa Barbara, California, Sunday, January 20, 1963'' presages Mr. Ruscha's well-known book of photographs, ''Every Building on the Sunset Strip,'' from 1966.)
In ''Bird #1,'' from 1962, Mr. Baldessari paints a headless bird over a large printed image of one intended to be part of a billboard. (He had a friend in the business.) More baldly, ''Autotire,'' from 1965, consists of an unaltered close-up of a tire tread, also from a billboard.
Just at the moment when the art critic Clement Greenberg was campaigning for the flatness of the picture plane, this work confronts the viewer with a mute, implacable image of flatness, industrial style. The next gallery includes a text-painting of a quotation from Greenberg about the instantaneousness of aesthetic judgment -- which is considerably slowed down here by the reading process.
The show's first act concentrates on Mr. Baldessari's gradual leave taking of painting and his embrace of photo-based works. In 1969 he commissioned paintings from commercial artists, each based on a photograph he took of his hand pointing at this or that. My favorite is ''Commissioned Painting: A Painting by Elmire Bourke,'' which centers on a paint-splattered surface that resembles a work by Jackson Pollock. The three examples here quietly satirize Photo Realism's celebration of exacting technique by demonstrating that it was available for hire.
There's a similar frisson -- this time directed at the early alone-in-the-studio videos of Mr. Baldessari's fellow Conceptualist Bruce Nauman -- in the 1971 video ''I Am Making Art.'' It shows Mr. Baldessari standing in front of the camera assuming different poses and saying, ''I am making art'' with each shift of his hand or elbow.
Mr. Baldessari's excursions into Conceptual photography leave few stones unturned and are consistently amusing. He excels at playing photography off reality; a rudimentary example is a 1973 series of found photographs of natural disasters displayed in frames that are askew, even though the images are not.
His affinity for color is evident in two works from the '70s, the wonderfully dumb ''Floating: Color,'' for which he photographed big sheets of colored paper tossed one at a time from the second-story window of his house in Santa Monica, and the 33-minute video ''Six Colorful Inside Jobs.'' ''Jobs'' is an unvarying overhead shot of a person painting the walls and floor of a small room, first red, then orange and so on through six main colors of the spectrum.
In 1975 Mr. Baldessari began to leave Conceptual Art behind, apparently becoming fascinated with how movie stills, amended with shapes of bright color, could be used to structure meaning in ways porous enough for viewers to add their own. Wordless except for their often useful titles, and gray except for their startling bits of painted colors, these pieces fully exploit and usually satisfy our tendency to read narrative into every image that comes our way, a skill developed in no small part by watching movies.
At times I half-jokingly thought the show might have been better subtitled ''Fun With Photography'' or ''I Survived Conceptual Art.'' But in the end a kind of pure beauty does accrue. It is the beauty of economy that we perhaps more often associate with mathematics, and the purity of an artist who has never seen himself as the center of his art. It is not, contrary to expectations, a modest achievement.
''John Baldessari: Pure Beauty'' is on view through Jan. 9 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Baldessari: Pure Beauty: ''Noses & Ears, Etc.: Blood, Fist and Head (With Nose and Ear),'' from 2006, is in this show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION OF NABIL AOUAD, LISBON) (C21)
Photography, color and the movies are all well represented in John Baldessari's ''Pure Beauty'' retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Above, ''Heel'' (1986), gelatin silver prints with tint. Below, ''Man and Woman With Bridge'' (1984), gelatin silver prints suggesting a classic cinematic image. Left, ''Commissioned Painting: A Painting by Elmire Bourke'' (1969), part of a series based on photographs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM OF ART, MODERN AND CONTEMPORARY ART COUNCIL FUND
COLLECTION OF MELINDA AND EALAN WINGATE
 RINGIER COLLECTION, ZURICH) (C24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



611 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
7 P.M. (The Hub) TAYLOR SWIFT'S JOURNEY TO FEARLESS From the childhood of Ms. Swift, above, in Pennsylvania to superstardom in Nashville, this three-part special uses home movies and personal photographs to chronicle her life as she embarks on her tour for ''Fearless.'' That 2008 album won four Grammy Awards, including album of the year -- making her the youngest artist and the first solo female country singer to earn that honor. Ms. Swift's new album, ''Speak Now,'' will be released on Monday.
8 P.M. (NBC) SCHOOL PRIDE A group of young idealists from Teach for America make over Lanier Elementary, a failing school in Baton Rouge, La., with the help of Tom Stroup, commander of a police SWAT team; Susie Castillo, an interior designer; Jacob Soboroff, a journalist; and the comedian Kym Whitley, who once worked as a substitute teacher. 
8 P.M. (CBS) MEDIUM After burning her hand, Allison (Patricia Arquette) gets a skin graft -- and suddenly her hand seems to have a mind of its own. In ''CSI: NY,'' at 9, the team is confused after a jewel heist at the penthouse of one of the city's most powerful lawyers (Gregory Harrison) leads it to a body in the morgue. And in ''Blue Bloods,'' at 10, Frank (Tom Selleck) and Danny (Donnie Wahlberg) go in search of a homemade bomb that is about to detonate in Manhattan.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER Casey Anderson, the star of Nat Geo Wild's ''Expedition Wild,'' has no problem coaxing bears into submission. In fact, his 800-pound grizzly, Brutus, acted as best man at his wedding to the actress Missi Pyle. But his wife's dogs -- Ellie, a Labrador-Rottweiler mix, and J. J., a Dalmatian -- are another story. In this episode Cesar Millan helps Mr. Anderson and Ms. Pyle tame their domesticated beasts. ''The Pack: Wild Dogs,'' at 9, follows the creatures of the title as they work together to catch elusive prey in the Hluhluwe-Umfolozi Game Reserve in South Africa.
8 P.M. (CW) SMALLVILLE An artifact turns Lois (Erica Durance) into a goddess with superpowers just as she is preparing to tell Clark (Tom Welling) that she knows his secret. Now Cat (Keri Lynn Pratt) is convinced that Lois is the Blur.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW Stacey Tisdale, a financial correspondent, reports on the growth of businesses, known as third-party administrators, that help employers process -- and in some cases challenge -- unemployment claims. Jon Meacham interviews Michael W. Hudson, the author of ''The Monster: How a Gang of Predatory Lenders and Wall Street Bankers Fleeced America -- and Spawned a Global Crisis,'' about the latest revelations in the home-foreclosure disaster. Other segments focus on the contemporary political relevance of the Broadway musical ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' and on how the income from mined minerals used in modern technology has helped finance violence in Congo, and what consumers can do to avoid contributing to the conflict.
9 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC Sean O'Keefe, a former NASA administrator, talks with Ann Curry about how he and his son Kevin survived the Alaskan plane crash in August that killed Ted Stevens, the former senator, and four others.
9 P.M. (BBC America) LAW & ORDER: UK Senior Crown Prosecutor Steel (Ben Daniels) gets a jolt from the past when the body of David Ackroyd is found in a shallow grave on the banks of the Thames, and Detective Superintendents Brooks (Bradley Walsh) and Devlin (Jamie Bamber) uncover evidence that could jeopardize Steel's conviction of Luke Slade for the murder. Now Slade has filed a writ to have his conviction overturned, and he plans to represent himself at the appeal -- while making Steel's life miserable.
9 P.M. (ABC) PRIMETIME: THE BEST OF WHAT WOULD YOU DO? In anticipation of a new season beginning on Oct. 29, this special looks back at some favorite episodes in which John Quinones, the series's host, watches the reactions of strangers as they are confronted with some character-testing situations (staged for the show).
10 P.M. (Planet Green) DEAN OF INVENTIONDean Kamen, right, holds more than 400 patents for inventions like the Segway, the insulin pump and the robotic prosthetic ''Luke arm,'' named for its similarity to the lifelike replacement worn by Luke Skywalker in ''Star Wars.'' In this new series Mr. Kamen treks through the world of technology as he searches for the next big idea.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS PIZZELLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); RECORD RELEASES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); MUSIC (71%); WRITERS (68%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (60%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (52%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (76%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



612 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Stem Cell Research Skirts Hurdles, but Raises Ethics Issues, Too

BYLINE: By JESSICA REAVES

 BODY:
In an academic-corporate partnership that may represent the future of stem cell research, Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago has teamed up with a biotech company to begin the first human trials of a therapy derived from embryonic stem cells.
By using private money, scientists said, the experiment avoids the political battles over federally financed research that involves the embryonic cells.
The trials mark a milestone in the controversial quest to determine whether embryonic cells can be reprogrammed to repair injured or diseased tissue and organs.
Enrollment for the closely watched trial opened last month at Northwestern, the lead site, and at the Shepherd Center in Atlanta. Eventually, seven medical centers in the United States will test the protocol on patients with severe spinal cord injuries. 
The treatment, called GRNOPC1, was developed by the Geron Corporation. The Food and Drug Administration approved the human trials after the company reported improved movement in animals with spinal-cord injuries. Geron said last week that the first person to be treated was a patient at the Shepherd Center.
The tantalizing, largely unproven promise of embryonic stem cells lies in their pliability: Researchers hope they can be manipulated into becoming cells found in any part of the body to repair diseased or damaged organs, bones and other body parts. The cells hold the promise of reversing previously incurable illnesses, like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease) and Parkinson's disease.
Opponents of the research say that extracting the cells, a process that destroys an embryo, ends a human life. Proponents counter that the embryos, which are designated for research by couples using in vitro fertilization, would otherwise be discarded and are better used in efforts to save or greatly improve lives.
Some researchers sidestep this controversy by working with adult stem cells -- culled from skin, for example -- although those cells have not yet proved to be as versatile as embryonic cells in experiments.
Because the trials are being partly financed by a private corporation, they are exempt from a federal judge's ruling in August that temporarily banned federally financed research. Some experts said corporate involvement in stem cell studies could become increasingly common to avoid the highly charged political issues that come with federal money and the prospect of government action that delays or interrupts projects.
But the close collaboration between medical researchers and a profit-seeking biotech firm raises the question of whether scientific inquiry is compromised by the involvement of businesses with a stake in the outcome.
''There's no getting around the fact that Geron exists for a reason,'' said Dr. David Chen, medical director of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago's Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Program, who will oversee the patients' long-term care. ''They're a business. They're accountable to their shareholders.'' But he said the volunteer patients were protected because hospital oversight was the same whether a trial was publicly or privately financed.
Potential conflicts of interest can affect both privately and publicly financed research, noted Dr. Richard Fessler, the lead investigator in the stem cell trial. ''With a private company, your ethical dilemma is about money: who stands to benefit from this new technology?'' said Dr. Fessler, a neurosurgeon at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and professor of neurosurgery at the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern.
''In federally funded research, your reputation depends on getting 'good' results,'' Dr. Fessler said. ''If you don't get those results, you're going to have a hard time getting funded.''
Another approach is to seek grants from philanthropies, though their financial support can shrink when the economy falters, said Dr. John Cunningham, director of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and a clinician and professor at Comer Children's Hospital at the University of Chicago.
He said companies might not have the same goals as the physicians or hospitals they work with -- for example they are not interested in ''orphan diseases'' that do not affect enough people to justify the expense of a clinical trial. But he also said that attention to the bottom line is not necessarily incompatible with good research.
''Some people worry about the ethics of a profit motive in developing health-care mechanisms,'' Dr. Cunningham said. ''I don't happen to agree. The United States has been strong in the field of biomedical enterprise because companies are responding to a marketplace.''
Ethical questions notwithstanding, academic-corporate partnership may be the future of stem cell research, some experts said, because they avoid the kinds of governmental action, like the recent court injunction, that can derail long-term research projects.
''When researchers are constantly looking over their shoulders and are always worried about funding, that has a chilling effect on research,'' said Laurie Zoloth, professor of medical ethics and director of the Center for Bioethics, Science and Society at the Feinberg School of Medicine.
In many ways, the Geron trial is the culmination of research that began in 1998, when James Thomson, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, announced that he had isolated human stem cells from embryos. Several years later, President George W. Bush, under intense political pressure from right-to-life and religious groups, placed restrictions on stem cell projects financed with federal money -- and the pace of research slowed to a crawl.
In 2009, President Obama fulfilled a campaign promise by overturning many of the Bush administration's limits on stem cell research, and grants from the National Institutes of Health leapt to $146 million that year from $88 million in 2008.
But in August, Judge Royce Lamberth of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, responding to a lawsuit by two scientists who said federal financing for stem cell research hurt their ability to get money for their studies of adult stem cells, halted the use of public money for embryonic cell research. A federal appeals court temporarily reversed the ban in September and asked the parties to resubmit documents and prepare new oral arguments. The appeals court is expected to rule on the case by the end of the year.
That ruling will not end the debate on the ethics and morality of using stem cells from embryos, said Richard Epstein, professor of health law and policy at the University of Chicago Law School and senior fellow at the Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago Medical School.
''Some reasonable people view disposing of the egg as a massive degradation of respect for human life, which will inevitably lead to more of the same,'' he said. This case, or a similar case, might get to the Supreme Court, Mr. Epstein said.
Mr. Epstein likened the debate over embryonic stem cells to the standoff over abortion. ''We have a compromise on the abortion issue: the government can't fund abortions but it also can't ban them,'' he said, But, he said, that does not stop people on both sides from challenging the laws.
''Either this gets a technological fix,'' Mr. Epstein said, ''and someone replicates the same effect in non-human embryonic stem cells, or we will see what are essentially very complicated compromises working their way through the courts.''
Whatever happens in the legal system, Dr. Fessler said, the real risk in the controversy is that the United States will not aggressively support innovative stem cell experiments.
''If we as a nation decide not to pursue this line of research, our best scientists are going to leave,'' he said. ''What else can they do?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zachary Cioromski, 20, during a physical therapy session at the Rehabilitation Institute with Tony Echauz, above right, and Dr. David Chen. Left, Dr. Richard Fessler at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW A. NELLES FOR THE CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); HOSPITALS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); JUDGES (72%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (57%); US FDA APPROVALS (55%)

COMPANY: GERON CORP (93%); REHABILITATION INSTITUTE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: GERN (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS624310 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (50%); SIC8331 JOB TRAINING & VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



613 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Rangers' Ex-Owner Comes Up a Season Short

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Few sports owners have had as rough a year as Thomas O. Hicks.
First, he had to sell his Texas Rangers in bankruptcy court. Then his Liverpool soccer club was sold despite his protests that he was the victim of an ''epic swindle.'' His third team, the Dallas Stars, is on the block.
And in a cruel twist Friday, Hicks will watch the Rangers -- a team he spent hundreds of millions of dollars building -- play the Yankees for a chance to win their first American League pennant.
''It's a little bit bittersweet, but I have a little bit of satisfaction that the team has a real good chance of going to the World Series,'' Hicks said Thursday in Dallas after returning from New York, where he and four of his five sons watched the Rangers beat the Yankees twice. 
In the world of billionaire owners of professional sports franchises, losing money running a team is often the cost of doing business. But because most teams become more valuable over time, few owners lose money when they sell their teams. Yet since this summer, Hicks, a former titan in the leveraged buyout industry from Dallas, managed to lose two teams in dramatic fashion as a result of the financial crisis.
Some of the pain was of his own doing: He went heavily into debt and spent eye-popping sums for players on teams that often underachieved. When the economy cratered, he defaulted on hundreds of millions of dollars of loans on the Rangers and the Stars, illustrating how owners can run afoul of sports leagues, which operate under stricter financing rules and greater public scrutiny than other businesses.
''Tom ran into the perfect storm for a leveraged sports asset: The economy falling apart, fans go away and corporate sponsors go away,'' said Mike Cramer, who invested in some of Hicks's nonsports deals before becoming the president of the Southwest Sports Group, the holding company for the Rangers and the Stars. ''All of a sudden, if you're running a small deficit with a team that is performing O.K., now you're running a larger deficit, and it's harder to pay the bills.''
In the Dallas sports world, Hicks was neither a headstrong showman like Jerry Jones, the owner of the Cowboys, or a vocal, controversial figure like Mark Cuban, the owner of the Mavericks. Hicks, by contrast, brought his experience from the leveraged buyout business to sports, hiring others to run the club and spending heavily with an eye toward selling the teams for a big profit.
But Hicks and his partner, George Gillett Jr., sought a buyer for Liverpool in April after they were unable to refinance about $445 million in debt owed to the Royal Bank of Scotland. Hicks entrusted Martin Broughton, the club's chairman, to find a buyer. This month, the board chose a bid from New England Sports Ventures, the owners of the Boston Red Sox, for about $480 million.
Contending that the team was profitable and worth far more, Hicks and Gillett tried to add friendly members to the board to block the sale. When that move was rejected, Hicks won a temporary injunction from a Texas state court blocking the sale of the team. After a High Court judge in London shot down that legal maneuver, Hicks withdrew his suit but vowed to seek $1.6 billion in damages.
''This is the worst behavior I've ever seen in my career in business,'' said Hicks, who called the sale of the club a ''betrayal.''
That career stretches back nearly four decades. Before he bought his first team, the Stars in 1995, he was already a legend in private equity circles for his ability to flip companies for big profits. One of his most famous deals was in the 1980s, when he and his backers put up 7 percent for Dr Pepper and 7-Up, and later sold them for more than 20 times their investment.
Hicks's firm bought an array of hotels, including the Algonquin in New York, radio and TV stations, and manufacturers. There were failures, too, including losses of more than $1 billion on Internet and telecommunications businesses that went bust.
For many wealthy businessmen, owning a team is the perfect accessory. Hicks bought the Stars from Norm Green, who had moved them from Minnesota to Dallas but was frustrated by delays in the approval of a new arena and the N.H.L. lockout during the 1994-95 season.
Under Hicks, the Stars had a lot of early success, culminating in a Stanley Cup in 1999. So when the Rangers were being sold in 1998, Hicks was a clear choice to buy the team.
''There were several people interested, but he was a big figure in Dallas, and he made it obvious that he was going to be an aggressive bidder,'' said Craig Stapleton, who was part of the ownership group with George W. Bush that sold the team to Hicks for $250 million, which at the time was the second-most ever paid for a professional baseball team. ''No one questioned his financial ability.''
With the economy booming and the Rangers getting knocked out of the playoffs in 1998 and 1999, Hicks made a series of splashy but ultimately flawed signings over the next few seasons that tied the team's hands for years. Alex Rodriguez was given a record 10-year, $252 million deal. While he played well in his three years in Texas (and later admitted to using steroids during that time), the team never climbed out of last place. Juan Gonzalez, Chan Ho Park and Rafael Palmeiro were also given big contracts.
''The mistake I made with the Rangers was I tried to catch up with the Yankees,'' Hicks said. ''I had to invest $50 million, because we lost more than that and finished in last place. You can't change quickly, because you're locked into contracts.''
The signings and poor on-field results put the Rangers in a financial hole. According to Forbes, the Rangers this year had debt equal to 105 percent of the club's value, making it the most indebted team in baseball.
Hicks was out of compliance with Major League Baseball's debt service rules for several years and had difficulty paying the deferred salaries of players who had retired or left the club.
In meetings with baseball officials, he produced plans to improve the Rangers' finances. Hicks said Thursday that he had hoped to reduce his debt problems by taking the Rangers, the Stars and his half-interest in Liverpool public in early 2008 to raise $350 million, ''but the market tanked.''
After he defaulted on $525 million in loans for the Rangers and the Stars last year, he reached an agreement to sell the Rangers to a group that included the Rangers' president, Nolan Ryan, but then he shopped around for a higher price, enraging baseball officials, who then took a greater hand in the sale of the team.
When his lenders balked at the price that Ryan's group offered, Hicks pushed the Rangers into bankruptcy. In the process, he tried to get Ryan's group to pay tens of millions of dollars for extras like a parking lot, something that raised red flags with William K. Snyder, the court-appointed restructuring officer.
''I thought it was a stinky deal,'' Snyder said. ''It took some chutzpah to do this. But you don't get to be a billionaire because you're not an assertive person.''
Despite losing what he said were a couple of hundred million dollars on the Rangers, including $85 million the last three years, Hicks will be at their stadium, trying to move on.
''I can't do anything about having too much debt like thousands of other companies in this financial crisis,'' he said. ''I've transitioned, and I'll be at the game on Friday.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas O. Hicks, far left, had to sell Liverpool, a soccer team in the Premier League, and baseball's Rangers because of his finances. A third club, the N.H.L.'s Stars, is on the block. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL NOBLE/REUTERS
LINDSEY PARNABY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B10)
 Thomas O. Hicks plans to be at Game 6 to watch a possible clinching by the Rangers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY L M OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SOCCER (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%)

COMPANY: DALLAS STARS LP (72%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); DALLAS STARS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (59%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (60%); RBS (LSE) (60%); RBS (AMS) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (72%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



614 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: White House Promotes Economic Efforts for Women

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As one of its closing arguments before the midterm elections, the Obama administration is highlighting the impact its economic policies have had on women.
A 32-page report released Thursday by the National Economic Council, a policy coordination arm of the White House, described scores of policies that it said had promoted women's economic security. 
For example, it cited the expansion of the earned-income tax credit, which disproportionately benefits working mothers; work-study money for community college students, 56 percent of whom are female; state aid supporting the jobs of teachers and nurses, who are mostly women; and Democratic opposition to privatizing Social Security, of which women make up 57 percent of beneficiaries.
The policy paper was timed to the Nov. 2 election, as Democrats try to respond to voter discontent over the slow pace of the recovery and the stubbornly high rate of unemployment.
''If the Republicans in Congress have their way, many of the economic policies that have been helping millions of American women not only survive during this recession, but begin to make progress while the economy continues to recover, would no longer be in place,'' said Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to President Obama.
The report, whose tone was less partisan, noted that women were now 47 percent of all workers, 60 percent of part-time workers, 51 percent of managers and 57 percent of undergraduate students. But nearly a half-century after the Equal Pay Act was signed in 1963, women earn 77 cents for every dollar paid to men -- a gap that has changed little over the past decade.
The gap cannot be explained by differences in education, hours worked or labor-market experience, said Cecilia E. Rouse, an economist who is on leave from Princeton while serving on the Council of Economic Advisers.
Women's median annual earnings fell by 2.8 percent during the 2007-9 recession, compared with 4.1 percent for men. That recession was the first since the late 1960s in which women's pay had declined.
Single mothers, black and Hispanic women and older women have been particularly hard hit. During the recession, the unemployment rate for women who are single heads of households rose to 13.6 percent -- the highest level in 25 years -- from 6.2 percent before the recession.
Some economists who reviewed the report said the administration needed to go further.
The president has improved access to health insurance, but has not done enough to create jobs for workers without a college education or to help with child-care expenses, said Barbara R. Bergmann, an economist at American University.
''Most of the advances women have made have been in the professions and business management,'' she said, calling for ''a revival of affirmative action to get women into the better-paying blue-collar jobs.''
Heidi Hartmann, president of the Institute for Women's Policy Research, said: ''Nobody's opposed to getting the deficit down in the long run, but we don't want it to happen too soon because we're still recovering from a very deep recession. We need to raise government revenues, we don't need to cut entitlements.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Valerie Jarrett, above, a senior adviser to President Obama
and Cecilia E. Rouse, an economist serving on the Council of Economic Advisers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Voting and the Economy: Women are more discouraged about the state of the economy and less enthusiastic about voting this year than men. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEN (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (71%); CHILD CARE (71%); TAX LAW (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



615 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: REVERSE COATTAILS: Guilt by Association?

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

 BODY:
5:52 p.m. Updated If you take it from the ads running in swing districts around the country, every Democrat is a clone of President Obama, Representative Nancy Pelosi or Senator Harry Reid. But nationalizing the race has been harder for Democrats, since it seems few know who John Boehner, who, as House minority leader, is the party's top-ranking figure, is.
So rather than nationalizing, some Democratic house candidates are state-izing, tying their Republican opponents to an attention-grabbing, Tea Party-backed Senate candidate. For example, a commercial for John Carney, the Democratic candidate for Delaware's at-large Congressional district, says his Republican opponent, Glen Urquhart ''and Christine O'Donnell want to shift the tax burden from the wealthy to the middle class'' while showing a photo of Mr. Urquhart clasping hands with the Republican Senate nominee. 
In that race, both Mr. Carney and his Senate ticket-mate, Chris Coons, are heavily favored to win. But the strategy is being employed even more heavily in a place where it carries greater risk. Nevada's Third Congressional District, a ring of Las Vegas suburbs, is one of the nation's most populous - and hardest hit by the recession.
And so Representative Dina Titus, a freshman Democrat, is one of the nation's most at-risk incumbents. On Wednesday, her campaign released its third ad equating Joe Heck, her Republican challenger, with Sharron Angle, who has gained nation-wide attention for hardline comments about Social Security, the Second Amendment and more.
The Republicans are ''two peas in a pod, with the same bad ideas,'' contends Ms. Titus's most recent ad - the second with that tagline, and the third directly comparing the two in the past month.
But unlike that of Mr. Urquhart in Delaware, Ms. Angle's Tea Party-backed challenge to Senator Harry Reid might be successful - public polls show them neck-and-neck, and the Third C.D. is the state's ultimate battleground. But Ms. Titus's aides seem to feel the strategy's benefits outweigh the risks.
''The Reid-Angle race has dominated a lot of the coverage,'' said Andrew Stoddard, Ms. Titus's spokesman. The spots are aimed at ''folks who may not have heard much about this race because of the other things that are going on.''
And there are a lot of other things going on. Over the past two months, Mr. Reid and outside groups supporting him have spent nearly $5.8 million on the Senate race in the Las Vegas media market, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group. With voters distracted by the torrent of starkly negative ads in the higher-profile race - many of which assign Ms. Angle to the political fringe - linking Mr. Heck and Mr. Angle in voters' minds can be an economical way for her campaign to benefit from Mr. Reid's expenditures. Ms. Titus and her supporters have put about $2.5 million into television advertising over the past two months, estimates Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising.
Furthermore, Mr. Reid's troubles could have more to do with his own unpopularity than widespread support of Ms. Angle. Mr. Stoddard, the Titus spokesman, said Ms. Angle's high disapproval ratings played into the campaign's thinking.
''There's just different dynamics than a statewide race,'' said Ryan Rudominer, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which helped Ms. Titus pay for some of the airtime for ads linking Mr. Heck and Ms. Angle on education.
Mr. Rudominer added: ''What the Republicans are finding is it's very uncomfortable for them to distance themselves from their sort of crazy top of the ticket.''
Mr. Heck did not endorse Ms. Angle during the contentious Republican primary, though he did call for unity afterward. His campaign's rebuttals to Ms. Titus's attacks have carefully defended his record without addressing Ms. Angle one way or the other. Mr. Heck's spokeswoman did not respond to requests for comment.
In his attack ads, Mr. Heck's campaign links Ms. Titus to Mr. Obama and Mrs. Pelosi, but Mr. Reid is absent - a sign that while the Titus campaign is prepared to write off hardcore Angle supporters, Mr. Heck is reluctant to alienate people planning to vote for the Democratic senator.
The Tea Party Senate candidates are also serving as bogeymen for Democrats in neighboring states. In Colorado, Senator Michael Bennet called his Republican opponent, Ken Buck, ''the next Sharron Angle'' in a fund-raising pitch, and in a Senate race debate on Wednesday in Pennsylvania, Representative Joe Sestak accused Pat Toomey of trying to hide his similarities Ms. O'Donnell and other candidates ''on the extreme fringes of the Tea Party.''
Correction: An earlier version of this post misquoted John Carney's ad. It contends that Glen Urquhart and Christine O'Donnell ''want to shift the tax burden from the wealthy to the middle class,'' not ''shift the tax burden to the middle class.'' It also erroneously identified Mr. Carney as Delaware's lieutenant governor -- he does not currently hold the position.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); DINA TITUS (79%); JOHN CARNEY (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOE HECK (58%); CHRIS COONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



616 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: More Strong Airline Earnings Underscore a Turnaround

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
United Airlines and Continental Airlines, which recently merged to form the largest domestic carrier, reported strong third-quarter profits on Thursday, confirming that the industry's fortunes had begun to turn. 
Southwest Airlines, the nation's top low-cost carrier, also reported solid gains in profit after losses a year ago.
The earnings underlined the industry's turnaround in the last few months, as all the major carriers reported a profitable third quarter after struggling through years of losses.
Airlines are seeing the benefits of their drive to ground planes and cut capacity, after being pummeled by the sharp rise in oil prices in 2008 and the drop in demand after the financial crisis. In the last year, the airlines have been reluctant to add too much new capacity even as travelers returned.
For United and Continental, the earnings highlighted what a formidable rival the companies will form once they fully merge their operations.
United had a net income of $387 million in the third quarter, versus a loss of $57 million in the same period last year. Its revenue rose by 22 percent, to $5.4 billion.
At Continental, third-quarter profits were $354 million. That contrasts with a loss of $18 million in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose by 19 percent, to $3.95 billion.
Southwest Airlines said it posted third-quarter profits of $205 million. It lost $16 million in the same period last year.
Jeffery A. Smisek, United's new chief executive, echoed the comments by his peers at Delta Air Lines, American Airlines and US Airways on Wednesday, who all emphasized they would not repeat the errors of the past, when airlines flooded the market with new seats and planes when the economy grew.
Airline executives, instead, now emphasize the need for the industry to be profitable on a sustained basis.
''The new United remains committed to capacity discipline,'' Mr. Smisek said on a conference call on Thursday, saying the company's capacity would rise by just 1 to 2 percent in 2011. ''We will not grow for growth's sake but only if we can maximize our profitability by doing so.''
The companies completed their legal merger on Oct. 1. Their new parent company, United Continental Holdings, will start reporting combined financial results for the carriers starting in the fourth quarter.
But United and Continental will continue to fly as separate carriers until they are granted a single flying certificate from federal authorities, which they expect by the end of next year. After that, they will merge all their operations under the United name.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (85%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



617 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Tea Party Candidates Part Ways on Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
In Washington for a rally several weeks ago, the leader of one of the country's largest Tea Party groups found himself stumped by a reporter's question.
Asked whether the Tea Party had a foreign policy platform, and if so, what it was, Dick Armey, the founder of FreedomWorks, hesitated only briefly before admitting, ''I don't think so,'' and then turning to a colleague to ask, ''Do you see a common thread there?''
Pressed on the issue by a reporter, Mr. Armey added, ''I would guess there would probably be a lot of different points of view from the candidates on that.''
Indeed there are. Among the more than 100 candidates who claim Tea Party support, opinions about foreign policy range from severely isolationist to unapologetically assertive of America's role in the world. And in between are many candidates who appear to have spent little time at all thinking about such issues. 
It is not an academic question. Dozens of Tea Party-backed candidates could win seats Congress in less than two weeks. In a closely divided legislature, the views of those new representatives could help shape congressional action on trade policy, nuclear treaties with Russia, Middle East peace negotiations and the future of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
''We are all asking, what does it mean for foreign policy? Its hard to divine because they haven't articulated clear views,'' said James M. Lindsay, a senior vice president at the Council on Foreign Relations.''You can find talking points,'' Mr. Lindsay said. '''We have to go after terrorists.' But does that mean you want 100,000 troops in Afghanistan? We are left wondering, what exactly would they do?''
With unemployment hovering at around 9.6 percent, the economy has understandably been the principal focus of campaigns this season. But the world outside America's borders continues to pose difficult challenges for Washington policy makers.
Some Tea Party candidates appear inclined to follow the lead of one of the movement's favorites, Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, a former candidate for president. In a recent letter to Foreign Policy magazine, Mr. Paul argued that the same philosophy that drives the economic positions of Tea Party followers should inform their foreign policy thinking.
''As many frustrated Americans who have joined the Tea Party realize, we cannot stand against big government at home while supporting it abroad,'' wrote Mr. Paul, father of the Republican Senate nominee in Kentucky, Rand Paul. ''We cannot talk about fiscal responsibility while spending trillions on occupying and bullying the rest of the world.''
Dan Benishek, a Tea Party-backed Republican who is running in Michigan's First District, said in an interview with The Caucus that he still needed to learn more about foreign affairs. But as a parent of a Navy veteran of the Afghanistan war, Mr. Benishek said he thought America needed to be careful about how it gets involved in wars.
''My basic position is that I don't think we should be putting boots on the ground without having a declaration of war,'' Mr. Benishek, whose daughter served in Afghanistan, said. ''We've gotten ourselves into a lot of things that I don't think they are the right things.''
But others appear inclined to take a more aggressive stand, more like the foreign policy embraced for years by former Vice President Dick Cheney. Christine O'Donnell, the Republican Senate nominee in Delaware, vigorously defended the Afghanistan effort in a debate with the Democratic nominee, Chris Coons.
''A random withdrawal that he has said he supports will simply embolden the terrorists to come out after us even more, saying 'I've chased away the superpower,''' Ms. O'Donnell said of Mr. Coons during the debate.
The philosophical divide within the Tea Party mirrors the broader split within the Republican Party, which has careened back and forth for decades between the likes of Pat Buchanan's isolationism and the aggressive internationalism of George W. Bush. The expensive wars in Iraq and Afghanistan tested the resolve of some on the right by exploding the national debt.
But while there has been much debate among conservatives generally, a review of the Web sites of many Tea Party candidates suggests that they have not spent much time exploring foreign policy specifics. Many do little more than offer blanket promises to keep America safe.
''I am proud of my son Cody, a fourth-year cadet at West Point,'' says Ken Buck, the Republican Senate candidate in Colorado, on his Web site. ''I will fight for a strong national defense and to ensure our military members, veterans and their families receive the benefits and care they have earned.''
Sharron Angle, the Republican candidate for Senate in Nevada, promises on her Web site to ''work tirelessly to secure the peace and security of our country'' and to ''do whatever necessary to protect America from terrorism.''
In an interview, Marlin Stutzman, the Republican candidate in Indiana's Third District, said the economy, not foreign policy, had dominated the conversations he has had with voters during the campaign. To the extent he has thought about foreign policy, he said, it has largely been about trade.
''We are looking out for American jobs first,'' he said. ''We have to be creative in finding ways to make sure that American jobs are here.''
Sarah Palin, the informal godmother of the Tea Party movement, was mocked during the 2008 campaign for a lack of foreign policy knowledge. Her comment about seeing Russia from her house became a staple on comedy shows.
But one of her top advisers since then has been Randy Scheunemann, a onetime adviser to former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Senator John McCain, Ms. Palin's running mate in 2008.
Mr. Lindsay, from the Council on Foreign Relations, said one constant among Tea Party candidates seemed to be a suspicion of powerful international organizations like the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. ''If you are not a big fan of a powerful national government, it stands to reason you will not favor strong international organizations,'' Mr. Lindsay said.
Rand Paul, the Kentucky Senate candidate, makes that point on his campaign Web site. He says the United States must make sure ''that we fight only under U.S. commander and not the U.N.'' and that America ''not give up that right to those who don't share the same respect for our history and our freedoms.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A demonstrator at a Tea Party protest last year in Santa Monica, Calif. The groups have no defined foreign policy platform. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMWORKS (58%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (75%); RAND PAUL (58%); DAN BENISHEK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



618 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Political Ads Attack the Other Guy's Lavish Living

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Living small is the new living large, at least when it comes to candidates running for election in November.
With unemployment at 9.6 percent and the economy still struggling, the latest vogue in political ads is attacking the other guy for living it up.
The National Republican Senatorial Committee released an ad this week taking note of the Washington living arrangements of the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, saying, ''Harry lives at the Ritz-Carlton while thousands are losing their homes.'' 
Sharron Angle, Mr. Reid's Republican opponent, picked up on the theme in two new spots of her own. In one, she compares Mr. Reid, ''living large in the D.C. Ritz-Carlton,'' to the voters of Nevada, ''living in the state with the highest unemployment rate, worried about paying the mortgage.'' In another, she mocks him as ''another multimillionaire just trying to make ends meet.''
Mr. Reid is not the only one whose home has made a cameo appearance in a political ad. In the Senate race in West Virginia, Gov. Joe Manchin III, the Democratic candidate, released a radio ad this week that attacked his opponent, John Raese, a Republican businessman, on two fronts: for his stance on insuring people with pre-existing medical conditions and for his home in Florida.
''That's O.K. for John Raese, who lives in a Palm Beach, Florida, mansion with a pink marble driveway,'' said the ad's narrator. ''But it's not O.K. for the rest of us, who work to pay our bills and struggle to afford insurance.''
A Manchin television ad featured a picture of Mr. Raese's house, complete with towering palm trees.
Rush Limbaugh, trying to help Mr. Raese, added another element to the Palm Beach picture: ''I happen to know John Raese,'' Mr. Limbaugh said. ''He is a part-time resident here in Palm Beach and he has a locker right across the bench from me at a prominent local club.'' The comment ricocheted around the Web, as people scrambled to uncover the ''prominent local club'' in question. (Verdict: The exclusive Everglades Club).
Florida real estate has also played a role in another campaign, the governor's race in Maine. Ann LePage, the wife of the Republican candidate, Paul LePage, was ordered to pay $1,400 in back property taxes and penalties after receiving tax credits on her homes in both Florida and Maine.
Jon Runyan, who is running for Congress in New Jersey, found his 20-acre property --the long driveway and ornate black gate, the swimming pool, the plush red parlor -- featured in a political ad of his Democratic opponent, John Adler. The ad pointed out that Mr. Runyan had purchased a donkey in an attempt to get a break on property taxes.
''Except Runyan doesn't call it a house, he tried to call it a farm,'' the ad's narrator says.
It seems like the best advice that a political consultant could offer now is obvious: forget the fancy hotels, the corporate jets, the spacious mansions and, oh yes, the private islands.
Matt Doheny, a Republican who is running in New York, became a target of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for, among other things, an island he purchased.
''While we struggle, Matt Doheny relaxes on his private island of Caprice with millions made from our misery,'' said the ad, which juxtaposes two people sitting on a beach in straw hats, taking in a sunset, with images of economic strife.
Even candidates who are not out there living it up can find themselves under attack simply for having money.
All of the Republican senatorial committee's news releases and e-mail refer to Senator Barbara Boxer of California as ''Millionaire Senator Boxer.'' As in: ''Millionaire Senator Boxer's massive health care overhaul slams California seniors with higher costs,'' from an October press alert.
An official from the Democratic committee said that the organization also had a list of millionaires to go after. In ad after ad, narrators refer to ''millionaire Mike Kelly,'' who is running for Congress in Pennsylvania, ''millionaire banker'' Francisco Canseco, who is running for Congress in Texas, and ''millionaire'' Jim Renacci, who is running for Congress in Ohio. (In the ad against Mr. Renacci, a waitress carrying a lobster glides by).
Some candidates are fighting back. In an interview with John Harwood of The New York Times and CNBC, Mr. Reid -- who has long emphasized his roots in a poor mining town -- dismissed the notion that his Ritz-Carlton condominium was a palace.
''They keep talking about this palatial estate I have, a penthouse,'' Mr. Reid said. ''Have you ever heard of a penthouse being on the second floor? This penthouse I have is less than 2,000 square feet and has one bedroom.''
Mr. Reid has a neighbor at the Ritz: Carly Fiorina, the Republican Senate candidate in California, and her husband keep a residence there. And while no ad has attacked Ms. Fiorina for her hotel-home, the Ritz-Carlton might very well make another political cameo before Election Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Ritz-Carlton in Washington is a part-time home to Carly Fiorina, a Republican candidate, and Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS
 GABRIEL LUIS ACOSTA/THE SUN, VIA AP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); TAX LAW (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (91%); JOHN ADLER (79%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); PAUL LEPAGE (56%); JON RUNYAN (56%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



619 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Profit Climbs 71% at American Express

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The American Express Company said on Thursday that its third-quarter profit jumped 71 percent as cardholders spent more and the company wrote off fewer unpaid bills.
The company's net income rose to $1.08 billion, or 90 cents a share, from $632 million, or 53 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
Revenue jumped 17 percent, to $7.03 billion, from $6.02 billion last year.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, on average, expected profit of 86 cents a share, on revenue of $6.8 billion.
Spending on American Express cards rose 14 percent in the quarter, the company said. The largest increases came from business cards, for which the company made changes to various programs.
Revenue from its American cards rose 23 percent, to $3.66 billion. International card revenue edged up 1 percent, to $1.17 billion.
While Amex customers are typically more affluent than the overall population, the chairman, Kenneth I. Chenault, said in a statement that spending remained below levels reached before the recession ''as card members continued to manage their finances carefully and pay down outstanding debt.''
That trimmed profit because customers paid less interest on their lower balances, Mr. Chenault said, but it helped to improve the company's risk profile. During the quarter, American Express' write-off rate dropped below 5 percent of balances for the first time since early 2008. It is the lowest in the industry.
Lower write-downs and delinquencies allowed the company to slash its provision for loan losses, or money set aside to cover loans that it does not expect to collect, by 68 percent, to $373 million, from $1.18 billion a year ago.
The company said its move to consolidate securitized loans -- those sold to investors -- in the first quarter also helped increase profit in the period.
Shares of American Express dipped 1 percent in after-hours trading, after the earnings were released. The stock closed the regular trading session up 54 cents at $40.27.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); SECURITIZATION (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%)

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



620 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Slow Markets, Slow Bonuses

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
Wall Street bankers are probably bemoaning the slow pace of business this year. After all, along with public scrutiny, it has pushed down bonus accruals.
But there is a bright side: bank shares have tumbled, too. With stock now comprising a larger portion of compensation at many firms, investment bankers and traders stand to benefit financially from a longer-term market recovery.
Consider the folks at Morgan Stanley. After first-quarter results were announced in April, investment bankers there must have felt confident of an improved payday from last year. The firm set aside twice as much for pay in the first three months. By the end of September, however, compensation accruals were running 7 percent below last year. 
If markets remain slow for the rest of 2010, it will mean lower payouts come early next year. But that may also keep Morgan Stanley's share price lower -- it is currently trading 23 percent below the year high achieved in April. Assuming markets improve, it suggests more upside for employees when the stock starts to vest a few years on.
It is a similar, if less stark, story elsewhere. The first-quarter compensation pool at Goldman Sachs was 13.5 percent above the previous year. A tough couple of quarters later, it is now 22 percent lower when compared with the same nine-month period last year. But the firm's shares have tumbled 14 percent from their high in April.
Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase has socked away 9 percent less than last year for its Wall Street staff members, with shares 21 percent off their April peak.
The best deal may await Bank of America's investment bankers. The firm does not break out how much it sets aside for them. But its stock is the worst performer of the bunch, down 42 percent. Of course, its exposure to forced mortgage repurchases also may keep the stock depressed for longer than rivals'.
Having more pay tied up in cheaper but restricted stock might not seem that appealing for those accustomed to bigger cash payouts. But it may bring more converts to the Goldman-inspired religion of long-term greed. If these added disciples help suppress potentially catastrophic short-term trading, so much the better.
Cheap Debt
Cash-rich companies like Microsoft and Cisco should hardly need to borrow. But a tax hit on bringing overseas balances to the United States coupled with ultralow interest rates at home make raising debt a cheap way to get cash at headquarters.
Last month, Microsoft's nearly $5 billion offering in the corporate bond market raised eyebrows, given its hefty $37 billion cash pile. But like many other tech companies, the bulk of the software giant's cash is trapped overseas thanks to American tax authorities, which take up to 35 percent if foreign profits made in lower-tax countries are repatriated.
If the alternative is borrowing at razor-thin, tax-deductible interest rates -- Microsoft, for instance, paid less than 1 percent on a portion of its debt -- it is a no-brainer to use that route to fill domestic coffers. Business investments aside, Microsoft could use the money for stock buybacks.
The cheap debt is a product of easy money, courtesy of the Federal Reserve, designed to promote economic growth. But if stimulus is the name of the game, there should be a less convoluted way to get money pumped back into the economy.
The eight largest tech companies have a combined $200 billion in cash, according to JPMorgan, but much of it is trapped overseas. In 2004, the American government temporarily slashed the tax burden to encourage repatriation. Doing something similar now could bring a big chunk of that cash back into the domestic economy.
Tech firms with a lot of cash on hand also would not be so inclined to raise debt. That could free lending capacity for smaller firms. This may not be a huge issue in today's red-hot corporate bond market, but should investors get nervous again they are sure to prefer lending to a Cisco or a Microsoft -- even if the proceeds go straight to shareholders -- than to some small firm looking to staff up.
So a new tax amnesty on overseas earnings could both create a miniature stimulus and make it slightly less hard for smaller companies to finance new hires plucked from the unemployment lines. At the very least, the status quo is an artifact of tax and monetary policy that needs a fresh look.
ANTONY CURRIE and AGNES T. CRANE
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cash-rich companies like Cisco don't usually need to borrow money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKETWIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BONDS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



621 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, Aqueduct Report Complicates an Already Difficult Election Season

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- For many prominent Democratic campaigns across New York State, the release of the state inspector general's searing Aqueduct Racetrack report on Thursday raised a dilemma.
The report painted a picture of a state led by Senate Democrats with little apparent interest in serving the public honestly and forthrightly, a Democratic Assembly speaker engaging in political gamesmanship and a Democratic governor disengaged to the point that his own staff withheld crucial information from him and called him a liar in internal e-mails.
Not surprisingly, the findings left a number of Democratic candidates pondering how to handle such a toxic excoriation of their own party's competency -- from the office of a Democratic appointee, Inspector General Joseph Fisch, no less. His report accused state leaders of badly mishandling the selection of an operator for a casino at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens. 
Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, the Democratic candidate for attorney general, who is running in perhaps the closest statewide race, has been an ally of the Senate leader, John L. Sampson, who was savaged in the report for a lack of candor and an abundance of self-interest. Mr. Schneiderman, who has portrayed himself as a legislator unafraid to take on corruption by his colleagues, faced the question of whether to turn on him.
Mr. Schneiderman said Thursday that he would return $76,000 in contributions made to his campaign this year by the campaigns of Mr. Sampson; the Senate president, Malcolm A. Smith; and Senator Eric Adams, all of whom were criticized in the report.
''The allegations reported today are beyond disturbing -- they are horrendous,'' Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement, adding that ''out of an abundance of caution and to avoid even an appearance of conflict, I have directed my campaign to return any and all contributions from those cited in this report.''
His opponent, Daniel M. Donovan Jr., the Republican district attorney from Staten Island, said the report was another example of the conflicts Mr. Schneiderman would face if he tried to pursue corruption.
''The public needs to be assured that someone is in the attorney general's office who is independent of all these interests, whether it's these other elected officials who are under investigation or the unions that put a chokehold on our state budget for the last decade,'' he said in an interview.
Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, the Democratic nominee for governor, has also campaigned on cleaning up Albany, but he has only glancingly criticized his party's leadership. Mr. Cuomo is far ahead in the polls; one of his few areas of vulnerability is his relations with black political leaders, and openly criticizing Mr. Sampson and Gov. David A. Paterson would be a delicate matter.
At an appearance on Thursday, Mr. Cuomo played it safe.
''I haven't had a chance to go through it, obviously it's a 300-page report, and there is an ongoing investigation on the matter, so it would be inappropriate to comment,'' he said. ''But suffice it to say there have been a number of these types of situations over the past few years that I've been attorney general, and my approach has always been the same: you need to have zero tolerance for waste, fraud and abuse.''
The report gave Republicans ammunition against a State Senate leadership already in peril of losing its narrow majority.
''The disgraceful, criminal conduct of Senate Democrats exposed by the inspector general makes it clear they were only looking after their own political best interests,'' said Senator Dean G. Skelos, the leader of the Republican minority.
Mr. Sampson said that the Senate would conduct an internal review and that he was confident it would ''prove I did nothing improper.''
The report appeared to hold the most promise for Senate Republicans, who hold 30 of the 62 seats in the Senate. If polls are to be believed, Republicans in New York do not appear to be poised for the gains that Republicans nationwide are expecting in the elections next month. But one area of hope for the party is the Senate, and this scandal falls squarely on the Democrats.
''I would be shocked if over the course of the last 10 days Republican challengers don't try to make a major issue of this,'' said Steve Greenberg, a spokesman for the Siena Research Institute, whose recent polls have shown gains by Republican challengers for Senate seats.
Within hours of the report's release, Republicans were indeed discussing how they could capitalize on the news; to this point, the economy and taxes have been the primary focal point in the messages of Senate candidates.
Republicans, however, were not entirely exempt from the report. One Assembly candidate from the southwestern tip of the state, Andrew Goodell, was mentioned at length. Mr. Goodell did legal work for Aqueduct Entertainment Group, the consortium that won the bid but was later disqualified, and represented its most controversial partner, Karl O'Farrell, even creating a shell corporation in which he would hold shares in A.E.G. on Mr. O'Farrell's behalf. That arrangement enraged even one of A.E.G.'s prominent lobbyists.
Mr. Goodell, who said in an interview that he had done nothing improper and had even made state officials aware of Mr. O'Farrell's role, has promised to bring the ''highest ethical standards'' to Albany.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Senator John L. Sampson was severely criticized in the report. He said the Senate would conduct its own review. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BUDGETS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



622 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2029 words

HEADLINE: Storming Statehouses With Plans for Growth

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Few issues have inspired as much voter anger this campaign season, or as many caustic campaign commercials, as the issue of jobs and how to put Americans back to work.
And while candidates in Congressional races have mostly offered broad-brush proposals, the country's governors-to-be have been busy outlining specific policies to reshape the economy one job at a time.
Democrats and Republicans in the 37 races for governor this year have published economic plans that for all their differences share what experts describe as a significant shift: public investment, government support and education are all likely to become less one-size-fits-all, and more focused on the dorm-room dreams of budding entrepreneurs.
Candidates for governor across party and state lines, including Alex Sink, the Democratic nominee in Florida, and Terry Branstad, the Republican running in Iowa, say they will shift tax credits and other state resources to start-ups. 
Retraining may have been the mantra a decade ago, but now, proposals linking education with economics focus more on teaching business to all ages -- from kindergartners to graduate students to grandparents.
And government, many future governors now say, must become more agile and responsive to business. Corporate regulations would be eased or eliminated by candidates from both parties in California, Pennsylvania and several other states, while plans to simply create connections among employers, state government, other nations, venture capitalists and universities are being promoted by candidates across the country.
''There's a new game, a new playbook,'' said Bruce Katz, director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution. ''If you want to play globally today, you better get very specific very fast.''
As a result, he added, ''governors keep getting more and more focused, and more and more deliberate.''
States acting as policy incubators, of course, is not a 21st-century invention. The New Deal and Reaganomics grew from governorships, and in the 1980s, Rust Belt states like Indiana and Pennsylvania pioneered a new approach to economic development with expanded financial incentives and public-private partnerships.
These days, predictable ideology is still part of the mix -- more Democrats are pushing investments in infrastructure, and more Republicans want broad tax cuts.
But after years of financial struggle for many states, incoming governors now seem determined to create new models that combine evolving versions of the old with novel ideas -- almost anything that might work.
''More than any other time since 1982, you will have governors with a clean slate,'' said Timothy P. McNulty, a former economic advisor to Tom Ridge, the Republican governor of Pennsylvania from 1995 to 2001. ''I don't think anyone could tell you they know exactly the recipe of economic policies that make sense for this period. We're going into a reinvention.''
Here are three strategies that candidates are championing -- and what to watch out for.
Tax Breaks for Jobs
Nurturing New Employers That Will Stick Around and Grow
At various points during the recession, Rhode Island had the country's highest unemployment rate. So when Frank Caprio, the Democratic nominee for governor, put together his economic plan, he decided to include an incentive -- a finder's fee -- to encourage the time-honored practice of business networking.
The Business Finder Tax Credit, as Mr. Caprio calls it, would provide a $1,000 tax credit for any company that helped recruit a business to Rhode Island; a $10,000 credit shared between those two businesses if more than 20 jobs are created; and a waiver for the corporate filing fee for any business that adds a job.
This is one of the more novel proposals from candidates seeking to tilt the tax code toward new jobs or new businesses. In the 1980s, '90s and '00s, states often tailored incentives to specific industries, like biotech or manufacturers, that sometimes left a few years later for a better deal. Now, incoming governors are focusing on small businesses that are more likely to stick around and grow.
In Iowa, for example, Mr. Branstad, the Republican, would allow start-up businesses to operate free of state income tax for their first three years. He would further sweeten the pot by allowing start-ups to avoid paying state sales tax in their first three years, for up to $50,000 in taxable purchases.
Several other candidates are proposing similar ideas, but with an approach best described as tax-cuts-per-hire. Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, a Democrat running for re-election, has already established a $5,000 credit for any company that hires an unemployed state resident. Bill Brady, the Republican candidate in a tight race in Illinois, is proposing a $3,750 ''jump-start tax credit'' for business owners, paid over two years for every new job created.
And Ms. Sink, the Florida Democrat, has included in her economic plan a tax credit tied to the growth of payrolls. It would let new companies defer state corporate income taxes for the first three years, with bigger credits going to firms that add higher-paying jobs.
''I'm hoping this will give businesses some confidence and give them something extra to help their bottom line,'' Ms. Sink said in an interview. ''But it's also for remaking our economy and creating some diversification.''
THE FINE PRINT:
The broadest tax cuts could have a high price tag. Experts also point out that corporate credits with strict qualifications are rarely used (the case so far in Maryland), while loosely defined credits yield low returns because ''businesses label things how they want to,'' said David Osborne, author of ''Reinventing Government'' and a former advisor to several governors and former Vice President Al Gore. Does a temporary position amount to a job? What is the definition of a start-up? ''Companies cheat,'' Mr. Osborne said, ''and accountants help them do it legally.''
New Business Roles
Privatization and Consolidation As Ways to Recast Development
When Gov. James A. Rhodes of Ohio, a Republican, started the Development Department in the early 1960s to revive his state's economy, it was an aggressive operation with a staff that included his Rhodes Raiders -- state salesmen who showed up without appointments at companies in other states that the governor hoped to lure to Ohio.
Two generations later, the department has expanded its mission to include home-heating assistance and support for the homeless, which is what the Republican candidate, John Kasich, wants to change. He has pledged to replace the government-run agency with JobsOhio, a new nonprofit corporation, with an all-chief executive board of directors -- ''an important asset for selling the state at the highest levels,'' he said.
And privatizing the agency would make it more nimble, argues Mr. Kasich, a former managing director for Lehman Brothers. The civil service requirements would be eliminated, making it easier to fire agency workers who are not performing. And if Ohio wanted to use a private jet to fly a chief executive to a potential site, JobsOhio could quickly make it happen. As the Kasich campaign puts it, ''the days of trying to connect businesses through bureaucrats is over.''
Mr. Branstad, the Iowa Republican, has proposed a similar change, following the path of Indiana, Pennsylvania and a handful of other states. And even for those who are not promoting privatization, consolidation is a major theme.
Rick Snyder, the Michigan Republican running for governor and a venture capitalist who has campaigned as ''one tough nerd,'' and John Hickenlooper, a brewpub entrepreneur and former mayor of Denver who is Colorado's Democratic nominee, have both said that they want to streamline state programs.
Several candidates from both parties have also said that they would create positions specifically to help small businesses, or in the case of Jerry Brown, the California Democrat, a ''jobs czar'' specifically for clean energy. Many more have emphasized a need for economic development officials to become more welcoming and more international, and to expand their presence on the Internet.
THE FINE PRINT:
Experts identify two risks to economic development overhauls. The first is that the changes not go far enough, and instead create jobs for campaign donors.
''The danger is that you fall into an 'I gotta have a program' mentality instead of really engaging with people who are trying to start companies and see how they do it,'' said Mr. McNulty, the Pennsylvania economic adviser.
The second risk is that elevating chief executives means limiting other perspectives: government of the people could become government for corporations.
''There needs to be a public voice on economic development issues,'' said Richard Celeste, Ohio's governor from 1983 to 1991. ''The notion that you can privatize that public voice is absolute nonsense.''
Synergy for the Campus
Linking Universities and Entrepreneurs
Can putting new businesses closer to universities -- or financing them with public money -- help create another Google?
Meg Whitman, the Republican candidate for governor in California and a former chief executive of eBay, is one of at least a dozen candidates with that idea. It is not a radical thought, considering that some of the most successful job creation policies of the last few decades have come from partnerships among government, colleges and businesses, according to experts. Pennsylvania's Ben Franklin Technology Partners, they say, is a model of how to help fledgling companies grow.
As a result, many incoming governors are looking to tighten the bond between education and entrepreneurship.
They are pushing to apply business concepts to public education, either with new curricula focused on innovation, or by shutting down schools that fail and tying teachers' pay to student achievement -- a proposal from Mr. Snyder in Michigan, among others.
They are pushing in the other direction, too: directing universities to become incubators for new companies, and directing community colleges to give students skills for hard-to-fill jobs.
Ms. Whitman, for one, would create ''economic opportunity zones'' at the state's universities, with incentives for companies that take root near campuses. Mr. Snyder wants laid-off auto workers to be taught how to start businesses of their own, while Mr. Branstad, who was governor of Iowa from 1983 to 1999 before becoming the president of Des Moines University, has said he wants to create an ''entrepreneurial mindset'' in every grade, starting as early as kindergarten.
There is also broad support for continuing or expanding the various public-private venture capital funds that have sprung up across the country to finance start-ups, especially in life sciences.
Dan Onorato, the Democrat running for governor in Pennsylvania, has proposed a new pool of competitive funding for university research, in addition to increased support for the Ben Franklin Partners, and what he calls the Pennsylvania 100, a group of entrepreneurs-in-residence at the state's most promising research labs.
THE FINE PRINT:
It's all about commitment: If forced to pick from their pool of ideas, what will this year's group of incoming governors choose? Tax credits and cuts tend to be the first item listed in their economic plans, partly because they are an easier sell politically.
But many of these other proposals -- reinventing education; using public money to finance start-ups, many of which will fail; trying to shift from a manufacturing to an information-based economy, one small company at a time -- require perseverance.
Some candidates acknowledge that staying focused on start-ups will be challenging because the number of jobs each creates will be small. ''We're talking about two-sies and three-sies and 10-sies instead of thousands at a time,'' said Ms. Sink in Florida.
Mr. Osborne, whose latest book is ''The Price of Government: Getting the Results We Need in the Age of Permanent Fiscal Crisis,'' said, ''Since the '80s it's been a tug of war between political impulses and pragmatic impulses.''
He added, ''This battle is two steps forward, one step back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRANK CAPRIO: Rhode Island Democrat would give a tax credit to any company that helps recruit a business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE GILBIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
ALEX SINK Florida Democrat wants to give tax credits to small businesses that add workers, with larger credits for higher-paying jobs. (POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT CARTER)
JOHN KASICH: Ohio Republican would replace the Development Department with a private nonprofit that tries to lure new businesses or help them get started. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY LAPRETE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
TERRY BRANSTAD: Iowa Republican seeks an ''entrepreneurial mindset'' in students, starting in kindergarten. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZ MARTIN/THE GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 MEG WHITMAN: California Republican wants to create special zones at state universities to encourage companies to take root near campuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (75%); TERRY BRANSTAD (71%); JOHN KASICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



623 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Try to Revive Female Voters' Enthusiasm

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MONICA DAVEY; Helene Cooper reported from Seattle, and Monica Davey from Chicago. Dalia Sussman contributed research from New York.

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Women came out strong for Barack Obama in 2008. Now, with barely 10 days before the midterm elections that are looking increasingly perilous for his party, he is trying to win them back.
Mr. Obama turned his attention on Thursday to convincing the female voters who helped deliver the presidency to him not to abandon the Democratic Party in its hour of need. In a series of orchestrated events, the White House sought to make the case that Mr. Obama's two years in office have already been a boon to women all over the country.
Campaigning on behalf of Senator Patty Murray of Washington, President Obama talked about his daughters, his wife (she knows more about the family budget than he does, he said) and his grandmother (she worked her way up to vice president of a bank but hit the proverbial glass ceiling). He even talked about a 16-year-old girl who recently visited the White House after winning a science competition.
''She designed a new drug'' to treat cancer, Mr. Obama said during a backyard event for women at a Seattle home. ''Now she's being contacted by all these labs right now.'' 
The outreach to women -- which came on the same day that the White House released a report that said Mr. Obama's policies, including the health care and economic stimulus bills, have helped women over all -- is part of a fevered push to cement a Democratic firewall that White House officials are hoping will stem losses in November.
Women are one of the most important pillars of that wall. ''Make sure you're as fired up and as excited now as you were two years ago,'' Mr. Obama told a raucous rally at the University of Washington. ''I need Patty Murray back in the United States Senate.''
But for all of the cheers at Thursday's campaign events, it remains unclear whether women will be there for Mr. Obama.
Women have historically outnumbered men at the polls, and also tend to favor Democratic candidates. But there are indications, polls show, that some women have grown ambivalent, or discouraged about the economy in recent months, and might be inclined to skip voting altogether this time.
With the balance of power in the Senate and House at stake, that possibility has stirred a new wave of worry both from party leaders and within campaigns. For some campaigns around the country, women are seen as a last hope to cling to seats that otherwise appear likely to be won by Republicans.
In states like Wisconsin and Florida, campaign commercials featuring women and issues like education, children's health, stem cell research or abortion rights have emerged. Emily's List, the group that raises money for female Democratic candidates who support abortion rights, has begun conducting phone banks aimed at these possible ''drop off'' women voters in California, New Hampshire and Washington, and creating election commercials related to issues like a cervical cancer vaccine placed, for instance, on Hulu before ''Glee'' -- in hopes of reaching younger, single women, a heavily Democratic-leaning group.
''We know what happened in 1994 when women stayed home -- 16 million women who had voted two years earlier didn't vote,'' said Jess McIntosh, a spokeswoman for Emily's List. ''And we are doing all we can to be sure that does not happen in 2010.''
The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said the release of the report on women had nothing to do with politics.
''This has been a continuing focus of the president's,'' Mr. Gibbs told reporters aboard Air Force One en route to Portland on Wednesday. ''It's an issue that obviously is on everybody's mind and I'm sure is on the minds of people of the states that are represented by women in the Senate and those that aren't.''
Besides Ms. Murray, Mr. Obama is also stumping for Senator Barbara Boxer of California. After the rally in Seattle, he flew to San Francisco to attend fund-raisers on behalf of Ms. Boxer and other Democrats.
The White House is also dispatching Michelle Obama to the campaign trail in the hopes that she will motivate female voters.
Even as polls suggest that women are showing signs of paying less attention to these midterm elections than men and are seeming less enthusiastic about voting, they also remain, in most polls, more likely to consider themselves Democrats than Republicans.
It is a long-held trend, one that some date back to Ronald Reagan's presidency in the 1980s, and that -- during the last set of midterms, in 2006 -- translated this way: Nationally, women supported the Democratic candidate for the House over the Republican candidate in their Congressional district by 12 percentage points, 55 to 43 percent, according to exit polls.
Still, this is also a year when some Republicans say they hope a shift, at least by degree, may be near. One recent Associated Press/GfK poll found Republicans running closely with Democrats among female voters. And some Republican candidates, like Representative Mark Steven Kirk, a moderate on social issues in a close race for Barack Obama's former Senate seat from Illinois, are trying to make inroads with clear appeals to women; in one television ad, filled with images of women, a female narrator describes Mr. Kirk's efforts on stem cell research, fighting pollution and ''helping families'' pay for college.
But most Democrats say they are less afraid that a majority of women will suddenly begin voting for Republicans than that many will simply stay home.
Experts disagree about why women in polls may be less enthusiastic than men about voting this year. Some speculate that women tend to focus on politics closer to Election Day, and that, in the end, women will vote in larger numbers.
But others suggest a link between women's relative detachment from the coming election and their sense -- more pronounced than that of men -- that the economy is in dismal shape.
That may explain why plenty of the push now among Democrats involves more than traditional issues, like abortion, assigned to win over female voters. Some campaigns are also attempting to talk directly to women about economic issues. In an ad from Senator Russ Feingold, a Wisconsin Democrat facing a difficult re-election bid, women are among those speaking pointedly before the camera about the economy's collapse.
Nancy Nusbaum, a loyal Democrat who has been pressing other women in her region near Green Bay, Wis., to get involved in recent days, said she had come across plenty of women who have yet to think much about these races, or what relevance, if any, they might have in their lives.
''But women are starting to realize that this election really does matter -- to their children, to their grandchildren,'' she went on. ''There are a lot of things on the line if we don't get up and fight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at a Democratic rally on Thursday at the University of Washington in Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUDGETS (74%); CHILDREN (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CANCER (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%); ONCOLOGY (66%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PATTY MURRAY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010



624 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Want A Big Raise? Get a Job On Wall St.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
WALL Street incomes are surging back.
The government reported this week that the real wage and salary income of finance industry employees based in Manhattan rose nearly 20 percent in the first quarter of this year. That surge helped make Manhattan the fastest-growing county in the United States in terms of terms of year-over-year gains in income. 
Most Wall Street firms pay bonuses in the first quarter of each year, and the figures indicate that bonuses were much higher this year than in the same quarter of 2009. Then, of course, the financial crisis was at its most severe, with stock prices at 12-year lows and major banks being bailed out. It was not a good time to be paying bonuses.
The figures released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics are based on unemployment compensation insurance premiums paid, and thus reflect virtually all employees rather than relying on surveys of workers or employers. Unfortunately, to get such detail requires substantial delays, which is why first-quarter figures are only now coming out.
As can be seen in the accompanying graphic, the average financial industry employee earned just over $100,000 in the first three months of the year, a figure that was up sharply from the same period of 2009 but still below the payouts in the previous three years.
The fact that those averages include bank tellers and trading desk clerks, as well as senior investment bankers, shows just how large many of the bonuses were.
From 1990 -- the first year for which figures are available -- through 2007, the average financial salary in Manhattan rose almost 7 percent a year, after adjusting for inflation. In 2007, total financial industry pay in Manhattan topped $100 billion for the first time. But the average fell by nearly a quarter by 2009.
New York, unlike other cities, includes five counties, and the data includes only Manhattan, known formally as New York County. The figures cover people who work in the county, regardless of where they live.
New York remains the financial capital of the country. Manhattan has more financial workers than any other county, and those workers have a higher average income than similar workers in any other county.
In the first quarter, only 4.6 percent of the finance workers in the country worked in Manhattan. But they received 14.7 percent of the income paid to all finance workers -- giving the average Manhattan worker income about three times as large as the overall figure.
Among counties with at least 20,000 financial industry workers, three of the next five counties with the highest average financial pay in the quarter were in the New York region -- Fairfield County, Conn.; Hudson County, N.J.; and Westchester County, N.Y. The others were San Francisco County and Suffolk County (Boston), Mass.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Wall Street Pay Rebounds: Manhattan remains the financial capital of the United States, although the number of finance industry employees continues to fall. There are more such workers in Manhattan than in any other county in the country, and workers there have higher average pay. New data shows that average pay for finance workers in Manhattan rose almost 20 percent, adjusted for inflation, in the first quarter of this year. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STATISTICS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



625 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Luxury Goes Downmarket

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Neiman Marcus may be known as a place for Texas-size yearnings and price tags, but in a sign of the economic times for luxury retailers, the company is being drawn to a less haughty shopper.
The retailer, based in Dallas, is preparing to open a new line of outlet stores this fall called Last Call Studio, which will sell clothes that have never passed through a Neiman Marcus or even the retailer's existing chain of Last Call outlet stores.
The Studio stores, to be located in suburban areas or strip malls that are not outlet centers, will specialize in moderately priced goods -- blousy tops, knee-length skirts -- aimed at the value-minded shopper who ''may not have the reach level to buy the fine apparel that Neiman Marcus offers,'' said Wanda Gierhart, Neiman's chief marketing officer.
The strategy speaks to several economic realities in the postrecession retail world: the soft real estate market has left desirable small storefronts unoccupied; many traditional outlet stores have too little clearance merchandise to sell because retailers have trimmed inventories; and as the recovery stumbles, even luxury retailers cannot afford to ignore the price-conscious shopper. 
''From a modest out-of-sight, out-of-mind liquidation tool, it has now really morphed into a strategic and financial necessity for those companies,'' Arnold Aronson, managing director for retail strategies at the consulting firm Kurt Salmon Associates, said of outlet stores run by big retailers. ''It's especially driven since the recession in response to the customer's demand for much more value.''
Other high-end retailers have also been exploring ways to attract more ordinary shoppers through discount apparel. Nordstrom has been aggressively expanding Nordstrom Rack, having opened 15 new stores so far this year, including its first New York City outlet. Saks Fifth Avenue is redesigning its Off 5th stores to make shopping there more enjoyable, through new lighting and open floor plans. And from the digital side, flash-sale sites like Gilt Groupe, HauteLook and Rue La La are grabbing territory with steep discounts on designer clothes.
Although the luxury market is showing signs of recovery, it plummeted during the recession. At Neiman Marcus, sales at stores open more than a year have risen since December 2009. But that came after 18 months of declines, including some of the worst in retailing in mid-2009.
Neiman Marcus executives said that while they began developing the Last Call Studio idea about five years ago, signs of vitality among so-called value shoppers spurred them to introduce it now.
It ''clearly is a sector that has continued to show good growth even through the recession years,'' said Tom Lind, senior vice president and managing director for Last Call.
Even Neiman Marcus's Last Call outlet stores can be too expensive for these shoppers. The 27 Last Call stores carry a mix of clearance clothes from Neiman Marcus stores and merchandise ordered specifically for them.
The new Studio stores will carry lower-end products, bought directly from vendors, not the scuffed but still new pair of Manolo Blahniks (as high as $1,995 at Neiman's) that can show up at Last Call stores (for about two-thirds as much). That is in part because there is not much clearance inventory left. There was $790.5 million worth of inventory at Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman stores as of the beginning of August, down 19 percent from two years ago.
''We cut our inventory buys when the recession hit, so obviously it produces fewer goods for outlets later on,'' Ms. Gierhart said.
The biggest name brands at the Studio stores will be apparel makers like Vince (clothing prices will run about $180 to $220, versus $42 to $1,450 at the regular stores), which are selling leftover stock from their department store lines and specially made apparel.
Buying directly from apparel makers, rather than waiting for clearance merchandise, has advantages because the Studio stores will have dependable offerings, Mr. Lind said.
''We'll have more continuity in the product we'll offer,'' Mr. Lind said. ''If boots are the trend of the season, she's going to be looking for a great boot selection, so we'll want to have more than what we can rely on from the store.''
A prototype of the Studio store in Dallas looks more like a career-wear store -- an Ann Taylor or a Chico's -- than it does a Neiman Marcus or an outlet store. Clothes are simple and conservative, and muted colors like black, taupe and pink reign.
Studio stores will be less than half the size of the biggest Last Call mall outlet stores. Apart from the Dallas prototype, the first stores will open in Rockville, Md., and Paramus, N.J., in November. ''We want to create more trips and have faster turns, so we're going to go to the neighborhood where she lives,'' Ms. Gierhart said.
Dana L. Telsey, chief executive and chief research officer at Telsey Advisory Group, said it was a smart real estate move. Few new malls were opening, she said, and even a vacated space in a mall would require three to four years to convert to a regular Neiman Marcus. But with the in-town shops, Neiman Marcus could swoop in to empty spaces quickly and easily.
''Being able to find some different real estate venues for it and at some different price points works,'' she said.
Mr. Lind said the company had identified areas across the country where Last Call Studio stores could succeed. To bring in traffic, they will add new merchandise weekly -- Neiman Marcus is expecting many Studio shoppers to come almost every week, versus the three to five times a year that a typical shopper visits its existing outlet stores.
Earlier this month, Neiman Marcus introduced an accompanying Web site, LastCall.com. Neiman's competitor Saks has avoided Web sites for its outlet stores so far, though Nordstrom, another competitor, introduced NordstromRack.com on Monday. Jamie Nordstrom, the president of Nordstrom Direct, said the introduction took a while because figuring out how to sell the limited stock of clearance items online was challenging.
''It's a different animal,'' he said in a recent interview.
Mr. Lind agreed that displaying clearance inventory from stores online would be difficult, but LastCall.com showed mostly direct-to-outlet merchandise, with its Last Hurrah section showing sale items that had not sold at NeimanMarcus.com, not the physical stores.
''That merchandise has already been photographed, you've already made the investment -- basically, you've already put up a page,'' he said.
''There's a huge appetite out there,'' Ms. Gierhart said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The prototype of the Last Call Studio store in Dallas. The stores will sell moderately priced clothes direct from vendors. (B1)
 A Neiman Marcus distribution center, above, in Irving, Tex. The company's new Last Call Studio outlet stores will be smaller than its existing chain of outlets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); RETAILERS (91%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); GROUP BUYING (73%); SUBURBS (70%)

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (92%); KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (54%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



626 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Look to Clout Of Unions as Vote Nears

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
SHARON, Pa. -- Just up the hill from a huge, shuttered Westinghouse factory, three campaign foot soldiers from the United Steelworkers rang Ed Turosky's doorbell to urge him to vote for the Democratic candidates for the House and Senate here.
It was a beautiful autumn morning, but Mr. Turosky, a retired steelworker himself, greeted them with surprising gruffness. He said he wasn't buying what they were selling; in fact, he wasn't going to vote at all, even though he is a lifelong Democrat.
''I'm mad at all of them; they're all crooks,'' he said, angry that the government is not increasing his monthly Social Security payments for the second year in a row. ''I have no use for any of them.''
This fall, the Democrats are looking far more than usual to organized labor's ground troops and money to save embattled Democratic candidates, but labor's vaunted political clout may fail to deliver -- partly because so many union members and retirees, like Mr. Turosky, are angry about the economy, and partly because unions are finding it hard to surmount a deluge of Republican campaign ads. 
In recent days, several unions have not just poured a record number of canvassers into the streets going door to door, they have promised record amounts of campaign spending in a last-ditch effort to counter corporate spending and limit Republican gains in House, Senate and gubernatorial races.
''It's been more difficult this year,'' said Rick Bloomingdale, president of the Pennsylvania A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''We don't have the resources to keep up. We're being deluged by the Chamber of Commerce and all these AstroTurf groups that pretend to be friends of the worker,'' a reference to fake grass-roots organizations.
Like the Democratic Party, labor unions see some Democratic candidates so far behind that they have written them off. But, Mr. Bloomingdale said, ''There are races where if it's close, we can make the difference. If we can get it within five points, we can make the difference. If the gap is 20 percent, there's not much we can do.''
The giant union of government workers, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees is promising to spend a record $66 million this year on get-out-the-vote efforts, voter education and political advertisements. That includes $16 million that the union recently took out of an emergency fund, and it comes on top of $21 million it spent last year, mainly on state and local races. The union says it has spent $17 million on broadcast advertisements so far this year.
Reflecting a growing dispute between unions and the Chamber of Commerce, the public employees' union is arguing that its campaign spending this year is less than the Chamber's $75 million, even though the union has spent $87 million over the two-year election cycle.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. plans to spend about $50 million in this year's campaign, while the Service Employees International Union, one of the most politically active unions, plans to spend $44 million, including $14 million already spent on advertisements.
Labor's role is especially important to the Democrats because it succeeded in 2008 in making inroads with a crucial demographic: blue-collar white men. While white male nonunion workers voted against President Obama by a margin of 16 percentage points in 2008, he won among white male union workers by 18 percentage points. Moreover, these voters are in the swing states that matter -- for instance, about 30 percent of Pennsylvania voters come from union households, as do 35 percent of Ohio voters.
Both states have hard-fought, crucial races for governor and United States senator.
Of the 75 Democratic House seats in play, A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders say, 37 of those districts have high union membership, with more than 40,000 union voters.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. says that so far this fall its volunteers have given out 17.5 million leaflets, made 23.6 million phone calls, mailed out 18.6 million fliers and knocked on 1.3 million doors, including 183,000 last Saturday.
Here in Pennsylvania's Third Congressional District, an area of stunning fall foliage and rusting factory carcasses, Andy Harkulich, president of United Steelworkers Local 1660, voiced confidence that labor could save Representative Kathy Dahlkemper, a first-time Democrat -- helped by the 64,500 voters from union households who live in the district. Labor is pushing especially hard across Pennsylvania because polls show that the seats of five Democratic House incumbents, including Ms. Dahlkemper's, are in jeopardy.
When she was elected in 2008, Ms. Dahlkemper became the first Democrat to represent the area in 25 years. Since then she has won labor's heart, supporting stimulus spending, the health care overhaul and a tougher stance toward China on trade. Indeed, the tens of thousands of union leaflets distributed on her behalf hail her for ''fighting for working families.''
Last Saturday, labor volunteers knocked on several thousand doors in Ms. Dahlkemper's district. Many homeowners thanked the union volunteers for plying them with information about her and other Democratic candidates. Ms. Dahlkemper's Republican challenger, Mike Kelly, is a likable former Notre Dame football player who owns a car dealership.
''I don't think she can win without labor's help,'' said G. Terry Madonna, director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa. ''Labor has to pull out all the stops. I think they're trying to, but it's unclear whether that will be enough.''
Mr. Kelly's spokesman, Brad Moore, largely dismissed the impact of labor's ground game, saying his candidate had a double-digit lead. ''There's a lot of enthusiasm behind Mike's candidacy and the Republicans this year,'' Mr. Moore said. ''And just because union leaders have endorsed someone, that doesn't mean the membership has the same feeling.''
Political experts say labor's recent push across Pennsylvania has played a significant role in lifting Joe Sestak, the Democratic candidate for the Senate, in recent polls in his race against Pat Toomey, the Republican candidate.
Mr. Toomey's campaign criticized labor's role. ''They support Sestak because he has the same policies they have, because he supports empowering union bosses at the expense of workers,'' said Nachama Soloveichik, Mr. Toomey's spokeswoman.
''There are a lot of groups that overshadow labor,'' she added. ''Most of these are the groups on television.''
For labor's foot soldiers, a big change from previous years is that when they knock on doors to promote Ms. Dahlkemper or other Democratic candidates, homeowners often bristle because they have seen so many broadcast spots attacking that candidate, for instance, for backing the stimulus plan when the nation already had a huge budget deficit.
Despite labor's broadcast expenditures, union leaders say their main strength is on the ground. ''We can't outspend the companies,'' said Mr. Harkulich, who oversaw a canvass by two dozen union volunteers last Saturday. ''That's why we have to beat our feet on the pavement. That's how we compete against money.''
Some homeowners nearly embrace the union visitors. Donna Carpec, a retired Packard Electric worker, welcomed their pro-Democratic message. ''I'm tired of listening to all that Republican garbage on TV,'' she said, praising Ms. Dahlkemper for backing the health care overhaul.
But Marie Borawski, a retired school secretary, was not that receptive, even though she voted for Mr. Obama in 2008.
''Everything is so rotten nowadays,'' said Ms. Borawski, the wife of a union retiree. ''I feel so undecided. I might not vote this year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the United Steelworkers in Pennsylvania, where union members have been seeking support for Democrats.
 From left, Todd Clary, Andy Harkulich and James Gladysz of the United Steelworkers looked at a list of local voters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); COUNTIES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



627 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Putting Species Act First, Judge Spares Prairie Dogs

BYLINE: By JOE STUMPE

 BODY:
WICHITA, Kan. -- A Kansas rancher's long battle against the poisoning of this state's biggest prairie dog colony is being hailed as a significant victory for wildlife conservation. 
Numbering about 25,000 prairie dogs in far western Kansas, the colony is a prime source of food for one of the most endangered mammals in the world, the black-footed ferret.
Larry Haverfield, the 74-year-old rancher on whose land the colony thrives, went to court to stop commissioners in Logan County from exterminating the prairie dogs without his permission, despite a 1901 state law that allows them to do so. Last month, the judge hearing the case here sided with Mr. Haverfield and Gordon Barnhardt, who also owns some of the land.
''It's important because it says the Endangered Species Act trumps a 100-year-old state law that forces the extermination of prairie dogs,'' said the men's lawyer, Randy Rathbun.
Prairie dogs inspire strong opinions in these parts. A highly social member of the squirrel family known for burrowing elaborate tunnels and emitting a warning call similar to a dog's bark, they are treated as pests by most ranchers because they can spread rapidly and compete with cattle for grass.
''They're a very destructive animal that comes in, and if you don't control them some way they will take over your fields and pastures,'' said Lynn Kirkham, president of the Logan County Farm Bureau. ''If you were in a city and had somebody next to you that was infested with rats and they kept coming over to your place and you couldn't do anything about it, that's how I feel about this situation.''
In addition to grass used for grazing cattle, the prairie dogs eat crops, and their burrows make it difficult to get around by motor vehicle or on horseback, Mr. Kirkham said.
Some residents resent involvement in the issue by outside groups like Audubon of Kansas and the Defenders of Wildlife.
''They're not taking economic factors into play,'' Mr. Kirkham said. ''It's not their livelihood.''
Mr. Haverfield said that cattle could coexist and even benefit from the presence of prairie dogs. In 2007, estranged from neighbors and fighting the county commission, he allowed the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to release endangered black-footed ferrets on his property as part of a program to increase their population.
According to Pete Gober, coordinator of the federal government's black-footed ferret effort, Mr. Haverfield's ranch is one of the more important sites in the program because of its size and because the ferrets there show no sign of the sylvatic plague that has struck farther west.
In his ruling last month, District Judge Jack Lively said that exterminating the prairie dogs would clearly violate the federal Endangered Species Act. The county commissioners said they would appeal.
On Saturday, Mr. Haverfield, Mr. Barnhardt and their wives were to be honored by conservationists here for their efforts.
''I guess I would hope that it wouldn't stop where we're at,'' Mr. Haverfield said. ''I would hope that eventually more people would become interested in having wildlife.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A prairie dog in Logan County, Kan., above, was among 25,000 saved after two landowners sued to prevent their poisoning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN HAUSLER/HAYS DAILY NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RODENTS (90%); DOGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JUDGES (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ANIMALS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); COUNTIES (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (89%) KANSAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



628 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Come for the Highway. Stay for the View.

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
BOULDER CITY, Nev. -- It is an engineering marvel and an acrophobe's nightmare. And even in its first week, it is a tourist attraction.
Just south of Hoover Dam, which has been called one of the engineering wonders of the world, is a brand new wonder, a massive bridge spanning the Colorado River gorge and connecting Arizona and Nevada. Towering 900 feet above the river in a majestic mountain setting, the 1,900-foot-long bridge is the seventh-highest in the world and the longest single-span concrete arch bridge in the Western hemisphere. And it offers a commanding view of the dam below.
''How did they do it?'' asked Curt Gordon, a postal worker from Las Vegas who joined hundreds of others this week on the bridge's pedestrian walkway. ''There's no better view, unless you're in a helicopter.'' 
Not everybody was enjoying the vista, however. Carmen Lee of Dallas had been visiting Las Vegas with her husband when he decided they ought to see the bridge. ''I don't like heights,'' she said, keeping a healthy distance from the guardrail. ''Look down there. See how tiny the people are. It's scary.''
Over at Hoover Dam, those tiny people were pointing their cameras at the new structure. The bridge opened to traffic on Tuesday night, and to pedestrian traffic on Thursday.
''I'm a civil engineer, and it's amazing to me, just amazing,'' said Randy Wiggins of Jacksonville, Ala., his head cocked upward in the direction of the bridge. ''I've never seen anything quite like it.''
Discussed for decades, the bridge is intended to create a faster route between Phoenix and Las Vegas, a major trucking route in the Southwest.
Previously, traffic had to navigate a narrow two-lane highway that went right over the dam. After the Sept. 11 attacks, trucks were diverted to a more circuitous route through Bullhead City, Ariz., and Laughlin, Nev., out of concern that the dam might be a terrorist target. But traffic continued to be a problem; along the narrow, winding road where drivers like to slow to snap photos of the dam, the crash rate is three times higher than on the rest of Highway 93.
The bridge is officially named the Mike O'Callaghan-Pat Tillman Memorial Bridge. Mr. O'Callaghan was a governor of Nevada, a Korean War veteran and a newspaper editor. Mr. Tillman played for the Arizona Cardinals football team before joining the Army and dying in a friendly fire incident in Afghanistan in 2004.
Although visitors packed the site this week, there was some concern that the bridge might actually result in less tourism at the dam itself. Travelers who drove right over the dam often stopped at the spur of the moment for tours. Now, drivers will need to travel several miles off Highway 93 to reach it.
As it is, more than a million people a year visit the dam, with about 800,000 taking tours of its inner workings. ''We don't know if we're going to have fewer people who say: 'We're here anyway. Let's go look around,' '' said Colleen Dwyer, a spokeswoman for the federal Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of the Interior agency that runs the dam.
Some of those on the bridge, though, were fascinated by its construction, the 16 million pounds of steel, the 30,000 cubic yards of concrete and the two million feet of cable used to erect it out of the jagged walls of Black Canyon.
''It's just as impressive as the Hoover Dam itself,'' said Jose Zamora, a retiree from San Francisco, who drove over the bridge and then walked it. The bridge's designers put up concrete partitions along the traffic lanes to block drivers from seeing the dam and getting distracted at high speeds.
Harold Hata, an engineer from Las Vegas, was snapping pictures from the bridge's walkway this week. He estimated that in the six years it took to build the bridge, he visited about a dozen times to photograph it slowly going up. ''It's an amazing engineering feat,'' he said, gazing off into the distance at Lake Mead, the reservoir on the Nevada side of the dam that has its water levels at historic lows.
The challenges of putting up the $240 million structure were many. In 2006, high winds toppled cranes at the construction site, causing a significant delay. Wind will be a continuing challenge, officials say. Trucks, buses, mobile homes and other large vehicles will be banned from the bridge when wind gusts reach 50 miles an hour.
At the opening ceremony last week, politicians pointed out that Hoover Dam went up during the Great Depression and that this project comes during another significant economic downturn.
''America can still build great things,'' Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said. ''Not just in spite of economic hardships, but as a means of overcoming them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new Colorado River bridge outside Boulder City, Nev., officially the Mike O'Callaghan-Pat Tillman Memorial Bridge, was an instant attention-getter at its dedication last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALLACE/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10)
 Leroy Spotted Eagle, left, was among those at the dedication. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL SCHENNUM/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TOURISM (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (76%); ARMIES (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORISM (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); KOREAN WAR (60%); FIRES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



629 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Tough Times No Deterrent For This Ball

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Barbara Davis, dripping with dangerously large diamonds as only an 80-year-old society queen can, held court at the Polo Lounge here on a recent Monday afternoon. She touched on various topics -- her friend Nancy Reagan has been struggling lately to find comfortable yet stylish shoes -- but it was the Carousel of Hope Ball that Mrs. Davis most wanted to talk about.
Staged every two years for the last 32, the black-tie, invitation-only ball for more than 1,000 is how Mrs. Davis raises money for her primary charity, juvenile diabetes. This year's ball, on Saturday at the Beverly Hilton, will come with its usual over-the-top trappings: chateaubriand and baked Alaska, live entertainment (Gladys Knight will sing ''Midnight Train to Georgia''), acres of oversize pink roses.
And of course there will be gift bags -- so enormous that they come on rollers. ''Don't let the I.R.S. catch you taking one,'' Mrs. Davis said with a grin. 
Charitable events in Hollywood, as in most of the country, have taken a sharp turn for the austere in recent years. Flashy dinners and extravagant silent auctions just don't play against the gray backdrop of the recession.
In a younger generation of celebrities, benefit dinners have become unfashionable in general. People like Brad Pitt, Shakira and Matt Damon care about philanthropy, but they would rather build houses for Habitat for Humanity or volunteer in Haiti than lend their star power to a charity ball dais.
''Gaudy, red-carpet events are a dying model for charitable fund-raising,'' said Trevor Neilson, a philanthropic consultant who has advised Bill Gates, Angelina Jolie and Bono on giving.
So where does this leave the Carousel Ball, which may have hit its high point in the 1980s when it was featured on an episode of ''Dynasty''? If it is something of a relic, it is also a peek into a fund-raising era gone by: a time when the tables were decked out like parade floats, the Champagne flowed freely, and the only thing bigger than the gift bag was the hair.
The Los Angeles Times has called the ball the ''biggest, richest, puttin'-on-the-ritziest, arguably most successful and longest-running good-deed society event in town.'' Liz Smith, in her syndicated column, wrote that the 2008 ball was populated by ''a cougar-lishious bevy of older women,'' noting glamorous attendees like the Collins sisters, Joan the actress and Jackie the novelist.
Mrs. Davis, who says her ball has raised $75 million over the years, is aware of the other-worldliness of the event. ''I'm not doing it to be chic,'' she said. ''I do it for the children.'' The ball, which raised about $3 million in 2008, benefits the Barbara Davis Center for Childhood Diabetes in Aurora, Colo., and the Children's Diabetes Foundation. The ball's budget is private, she said, but she added that ''the vast majority, as in almost everything,'' was donated, from the flowers to the freebies, and that certain decorations like carousel horses have been reused for decades.
Mrs. Davis, the widow of Marvin Davis, an oil tycoon and onetime owner of 20th Century Fox, has made some tweaks to the ball over the years to freshen it and tone it down a notch (but only a notch). The dais is gone -- ''It died with the people on it,'' she said -- and she no longer holds a night-before party.
She also makes booking younger performers a priority. Last time around, those at the dinner included Kenneth Edmonds, the R&B musician known as Babyface; and the Jonas Brothers, the youngest of whom has diabetes. Joining Ms. Knight this year will be Akon, the hip-hop star.
Ultimately, however, Mrs. Davis clings to the formula that has worked for three decades: pomp and more pomp.
So there will be yards of peppermint pink chiffon decorating the staging area for the silent auction, which includes donated items like a fully loaded Mercedes sedan (minimum bid, $90,000) and 12 nights at St. Regis resorts in Hawaii and Tahiti ($20,000 minimum). As always, each table will be topped with a miniature carousel, with larger carousel horses trotted out for the walls.
Filling the gift bags are donated items like a $500 gift certificate toward a jet charter, and $118 jars of Lagoon Cream from Carita cosmetics. ''Barbara realizes there is a recession, but this is how she has always done it, and it has worked, so why not?'' said Jackie Collins, a longtime attendee.
The program is nearly 200 pages, stuffed with $2,500 ''platinum'' ads from fashion labels, movie studios and friends (''Love & Affection -- Barbara & Don Rickles''). Confirmed to attend are Vanna White, Paris Hilton, Bob Newhart, Sidney Poitier, Raquel Welch, Tom Hanks, Melanie Griffith, Larry King, Jennifer Lopez and Judge Judy Sheindlin.
''Barbara makes sure it's an impressive evening, and I wouldn't miss it,'' Mr. Poitier said.
What there will not be: metal detectors.
''These women have on so much jewelry that metal detectors would melt down and start to smoke,'' said George Schlatter, producer of the '60s-era sketch comedy program ''Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In.'' Mr. Schlatter has helped organize the ball since 1990.
Mrs. Davis started raising money for juvenile diabetes in the 1970s, when the youngest of her five children, Dana, was found to have the disease. When she told her husband the news, Mr. Davis responded as a wealthy man used to buying solutions: ''Fix it.''
Learning that there was no cure, Mrs. Davis threw herself into fund-raising for research and a hospital, holding the first ball in 1978 in Denver, where the family lived at the time. (She picked the carousel motif for several reasons. To coax Dana into sitting still for her daily insulin shots, Mrs. Davis bought her a white pony; Mrs. Davis also said the name referred to ''children riding the carousel of life.'')
One reason Mrs. Davis gets away with an extravagant party at a time when people are reluctant to be showy is her passion for her cause, attendees say.
''Anybody can poke holes, but the point of the matter is that she has raised a tremendous amount of money, and her commitment is fierce in the best sense of the term,'' said the music impresario Clive Davis (who is not related to Mrs. Davis).
Mrs. Davis is dogged when it comes to her ball. She has a tendency to put celebrities like Katy Perry and Lady Gaga on the spot about attending by walking up to them at restaurants or calling them personally -- sometimes in the early morning, while she's walking on a treadmill. (Ms. Perry and Lady Gaga both ended up with conflicting commitments, Mrs. Davis said.)
Asked about Mrs. Davis, the music producer Quincy Jones, whose ''We Are the World'' was partly written at the Davis mansion, started talking about the pyramids of Egypt and the Great Sphinx.
''Here's the thing you need to know about Barbara, aside from how loyal people are to her,'' he said. ''She stands the test of time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barbara Davis is staging her black-tie ball on Saturday as she has every two years for the last 32. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (61%); WRITERS (60%); DIABETES (55%); PARADES & MARCHES (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%); ANGELINA JOLIE (53%); MATT DAMON (50%); BRAD PITT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%); HAITI (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



630 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Plunging Rates for Refinancing Aid the Thrifty

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
For those sober souls who were thrifty long before it became fashionable, the last few years have been intensely aggravating.
They did nothing to cause the recession, but they absorbed the pain. Their stock portfolios languished. The values of their homes skidded. Their savings still do not earn enough interest each month to buy a pack of gum.
Now, at last, the frugal are celebrating. With a leg up on their less creditworthy neighbors, they are qualifying for refinanced home mortgages at interest rates that in any other recent era would have been considered stealing. And unlike in late 2008, when rates started their plunge to historic lows, many lenders say they are rushing to accommodate the influx in applications. 
Wilner Samson and Michelle Smedley, both doctors, just refinanced their home in West Hartford, Conn., saving $300 a month. ''There were times during the housing boom when I felt I was missing out on a big party,'' said Dr. Samson, a kidney specialist. ''Now I'm getting my reward.''
Refinancing activity surged in early October when mortgage rates fell for the fifth week in a row, pushing the volume to one of the highest levels of the year, the Mortgage Bankers Association said. Many economists expect the trend to continue as the Federal Reserve moves further to bolster the economy.
And while the credit elite get the best treatment, for the first time since the recession began the rewards of lower rates are beginning to spread to some of those with less than exemplary finances or just more complicated circumstances, according to data from Fannie Mae, which buys millions of mortgages from lenders.
Kathy and Mike Bernreuter have been working on the refinance of their home in Northbrook, Ill., since May. The property taxes in their escrow account were improperly credited, a small mistake that nevertheless threatened to put the mortgage in default. They had to get a home equity loan on their former apartment, which they could not sell, and apply the funds to their house.
It was an ordeal that threatened to ruin their summer -- and not so long ago, would have been a nonstarter for most lenders -- but the effort paid off.
This month the Bernreuters were told their new loan was on track for approval. Their mortgage payment should soon drop by more than $1,000 a month.
''Now we'll have more money available to us to actually fix up this house,'' said Mrs. Bernreuter.
For competitive reasons, the large lenders are reluctant to reveal their refinancing numbers, but they acknowledged that the news had been getting ever better for many borrowers. JPMorgan Chase, for instance, said that ''refinancings have increased dramatically as a percentage of all new mortgages from a year ago, and the refinancing dollar volume has risen even more dramatically.'' Chase also said it had added staff to its refinancing unit to process applications more quickly.
Interest rates for 30-year fixed mortgages this week were 4.21 percent, just slightly above the 4.19 percent record set earlier this month, Freddie Mac, the other large mortgage company, said. The current level is estimated to be the lowest since the early 1950s. Two years ago, rates were about 6.5 percent.
Lower rates are merely a dream if you do not qualify. Early on, as the rates were coming down, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were tightening standards on loans they purchased. Lenders would not refinance loans they could not sell to the holding companies.
Now Fannie and Freddie have stopped tightening and may be loosening requirements a bit. The average credit score of a Fannie Mae borrower rose to 761 in 2009, from 716 in 2007. In the second quarter of this year, it was 758.
In 2007, before housing started to slide in earnest, about one in six Fannie borrowers had less than 10 percent equity in their property. A small slide in values could wipe them out and encourage defaults, which is exactly what happened to many.
Last year, only one in 33 borrowers had that little equity, because of stricter terms by banks. But in the first half of this year, the level was creeping back up, to one in 17.
''The nice thing about this mini-refi boom is that folks who have got into a loan that is a bit of a ticking time bomb have the opportunity to get out,'' said Kevin Marshall, president of the research firm Clear Capital.
Another upside of the refinancing surge is that households with more cash in their pocket tend to spend it. And more refinances might also help heal the troubled housing market.
''If you could wave a magic wand and give a refinance to everyone who wanted one, that would absolutely reduce the problem of folks who are defaulting,'' said Mr. Marshall.
Bobby Frank, a Valley Stream, N.Y., mortgage broker, offers this advice for homeowners who have been turned down in the past: ''Call your bank. Every day, like a hungry dog, call and ask.''
A different approach worked for Tom Foley when he tried to refinance his home in Cape Cod, Mass. His lender, one of the biggest, sent him a letter inviting him to refinance. Then it gave Mr. Foley a lengthy run-around despite what he says is his excellent credit.
Mr. Foley compared his original lender to Hal, the computer in the film ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' ''They pretend to be personal, but are far from it,'' he said. ''If there isn't an office around the corner you can walk to, stay away from it.'' He eventually refinanced with a local bank, Sovereign.
Refinances are still a long way from the boom of 2003, when volume reached $2.5 trillion. The Mortgage Bankers Association estimates that this year's volume will be about $900 billion. Analysts calculate that more than two-thirds of all households with mortgages could benefit from a new loan. Many of those families owe more than their home is worth, which all by itself rules out a refinance. There are no shortage of proposals to create a magic wand to help these 11 million homeowners.
Happy are the borrowers who do not need to wait for aid that may not come. Dr. Samson, the Connecticut physician, was taught the virtues of saving by his father, an immigrant from Haiti who died this month with all bills paid.
Dr. Samson and his wife are not taking the monthly savings from their refinance and spending it. Instead, they are continuing to pay the same amount each month. ''Paying down the loan faster opens up options for us,'' said Dr. Samson, who is 42. ''We might want to retire early.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Smedley and Wilner Samson, above, refinanced their home, below, in West Hartford, Conn., saving $300 a month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); PROPERTY ESCROW (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); TRENDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (70%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (80%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (80%); JPM (LSE) (80%); 8634 (TSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



631 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: An Initial Agreement On Trade Imbalances

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Representatives of the world's largest economies, meeting in South Korea, reached tentative agreement early Saturday on the need to rein in trade imbalances, as part of an American-brokered compromise on calming exchange-rate tensions that have threatened to disrupt the uneven global recovery.
The Obama administration on Friday urged the other economic powers that make up the Group of 20 to agree to curb persistent surpluses and deficits that could contribute to the next financial crisis.
The proposal, which included a numerical limit, was backed by South Korea and quickly drew support from Britain, Canada and Australia. But it met with resistance from Germany and ambivalence from Japan, both major export countries. China, whose currency battle with the United States has threatened to derail the process of global economic cooperation, did not formally weigh in. 
So after a marathon negotiating session that stretched into the predawn hours Saturday, the G-20 representatives agreed on the goal of ''reducing excessive imbalances'' -- without a specified limit -- and called on the International Monetary Fund to examine the causes of ''persistently large imbalances.'' The draft statement, to be ratified later Saturday, will also call on countries to ''refrain from competitive devaluation'' of their currencies, officials said.
The lengthy and often chaotic negotiations illustrated the growing difficulty of securing cooperation among the G-20, whose leaders, including President Obama, will gather next month in Seoul, South Korea. But the agreement could be a critical moment in preventing the outbreak of a currency war, as Brazil, a G-20 member that skipped the weekend meetings, has warned.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithneroffered the administration's proposal on Friday at the start of a two-day meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central bankers in Gyeongju, South Korea. American officials called for the biggest industrialized economies to get their current-account balance -- whether a surplus or a deficit -- below 4 percent of gross domestic product by 2015. That goal, five years away, would be in line with China's own forecasts.
The current-account balance is a nation's net trade in goods and services, plus net earnings (like interest and dividends) and net transfer payments (like foreign aid and worker remittances). The United States, Canada and Britain have current-account deficits, while China, Germany and Japan have surpluses.
Four countries have current-account surpluses exceeding 4 percent: Saudi Arabia (6.7 percent), Germany (6.1 percent), China (4.7 percent) and Russia (4.7 percent.) But under the American proposal, countries like Russia and Saudi Arabia that are ''structurally large exporters of raw materials'' would be exempt from the 4 percent limit, so the pressure would have fallen on China and Germany.
Two G-20 countries have current-account deficits larger than 4 percent: Turkey (5.2 percent) and South Africa (4.3 percent). The United States is next, at 3.2 percent.
The proposal in essence tried to add some teeth to the broad but vague mantra of ''strong, sustainable and balanced growth,'' to which the G-20 countries agreed in September 2009 in their meeting in Pittsburgh.
Deficit countries should increase national savings, Mr. Geithner wrote in a letter outlining the proposal, by stabilizing their public indebtedness over the medium term and raising exports, while surplus countries ''should undertake structural, fiscal and exchange-rate policies'' to increase domestic demand. ''Since our current-account balances depend on our own policy choices as well as on the policies pursued by other G-20 countries, these commitments require a cooperative effort,'' he wrote.
The German economy minister, Rainer Bruderle, told reporters that the proposal could be viewed as a reversion to ''planned economy thinking.''
The Japanese finance minister, Yoshihiko Noda, did not rule out Mr. Geithner's idea, but he did not embrace it either. ''It might be a problem if we set the rigid numerical target,'' he told reporters, ''but it would be O.K. to see it as a reference number.''
Even if the countries had agreed to the 4 percent target, it would not have been compulsory. The G-20 operates through shared interests and peer pressure, and its agreements do not have the force of law.
Instead, the tentative agreement buttresses calls by the United States for the I.M.F. to play a more assertive role in evaluating whether the G-20 countries are fulfilling their commitments. The fund is responsible for monitoring countries' fiscal and monetary policies and for discouraging them from manipulating exchange rates. Though it cannot compel its members to act, its economic findings carry great weight.
The Obama administration's proposal added some momentum to a meeting for which many officials and experts had low expectations.
Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, who earlier this week laid out drastic budget cuts in his country, expressed interest in and support for the Geithner proposal, a spokesman said.
The Australian treasurer, Wayne Swan, called the proposal ''a constructive one.'' And James M. Flaherty, Canada's finance minister, seemed to warm to the idea, saying, ''We agree because it fits with the strong, sustainable, balanced growth that we need to accomplish.''
''No one wants to be confrontational here,'' he said. ''No one wants to walk away from here without an agreement on an action plan.''
Mr. Flaherty, who led a separate meeting of the Group of 7 powers on Friday afternoon in Gyeongju, also said he had met with his Chinese counterpart, Xie Xuren, to discuss the currency.
''I think there's a willingness to open the door to more flexibility over time,'' Mr. Flaherty said. ''I think there's a recognition that this currency issue has to be addressed.''
In his letter, Mr. Geithner also said the G-20 countries should refrain from ''exchange-rate policies designed to achieve competitive advantage by either weakening their currency or preventing appreciation of an undervalued currency.''
He also suggested that the I.M.F. semiannually assess ''G-20 countries' progress toward the agreed objectives on external sustainability and the consistency of countries' exchange rate, capital account, structural and fiscal policies toward meeting these objectives.''
Desmond Lachman, a former I.M.F. official now at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, praised Mr. Geithner's message. ''It's a constructive and imaginative proposal and it broadens the discussion away from an exclusive focus on currency to the wider set of policies needed to bring balance about,'' he said. ''But if you don't have the Germans and the Chinese, this isn't going to go very far.''
He added: ''They want the U.S. to reduce its deficits, but they don't want to reduce their surpluses.''
As host, South Korea was eager for the talks to go well. The South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, joked that the ministers and central bankers had an extra incentive to cooperate. ''If you do not reach an agreement, when you come to leave, we may not operate buses, trains or planes,'' he said.
Online Correction: October 22, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a headline with this article misstated the extent of a tentative agreement reached at a Group of 20 meeting. The group of nations did not reach an agreement on reducing trade imbalances -- only on the need to do so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner at the G-20 meeting. The representatives agreed to reduce ''excessive imbalances.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUNG SUNG-JUN/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHART: Global Imbalances: The United States has suggested the Group of 20 economies agree to limit their current account balances -- surpluses and deficits -- to less than 4 percent of gross domestic product. Most already meet the target, but some, like China and Germany, do not. (Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



632 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Shifting View Of Retirement

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
Is the traditional concept of retirement likely to become a casualty of the latest recession?
The people at Sun Life Financial, a financial services company, seem to think so. ''The traditional view of retirement, stopping work when government benefits become available, is changing,'' wrote Alexi Maravel, a Sun Life spokesman, in an e-mail to Bucks. ''More and more, Americans are choosing to be 'unretired,' that is, continue to work full- or part-time after the age when they are eligible to receive full Social Security benefits.'' 
To learn more about whether, and why, people may be choosing to continue to work after reaching the traditional retirement age, Sun Life began conducting a survey two years ago that it calls the ''Unretirement Index.'' According to Sun Life, ''unretirement'' is defined as ''working at least 20 hours per week after the age when one is eligible to receive Social Security benefits.''
Sun Life recently released the latest version of the survey, which captures this retirement lifestyle change and hints that people may not be so happy about it.
The results are based on a telephone survey that was conducted in September. The 1,201 respondents were representative of the working population in the United States ages 18 to 66.
The survey found that more than half of working respondents -- 52 percent -- expect to work at least three years longer than originally planned and just as many respondents expect to retire at age 70 as age 65. These delays, according to the Sun Life spokesman, ''are driven by economic conditions, a lack of confidence in government benefits in the future and dwindling retirement savings.''
In two earlier surveys in 2008 and 2009, the most common reason given by those who said they planned to work at 67 was ''to stay mentally engaged.'' Now, ''to earn enough money to live well'' is just as popular an answer. In addition, in this year's survey, ''to earn enough money to live well'' was most often identified as the top reason respondents said they would continue to work past the traditional retirement age of 65. Sun Life also found that fewer respondents this year than in the past were continuing to work because they ''love their career.''
The overall index, which is on a scale of 0 to 100, remained at 44 this year for the second year in a row, down from 46 when the index was started in 2008. According to Sun Life, this overall index score captures how respondents feel about five factors: the economy, personal finances, health, government benefits and employee benefits.
How do your retirement plans now compare with what they were before the recession? What do you think of the ''unretirement'' concept and the status of the traditional retirement concept?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: SUN LIFE FINANCIAL INC (58%)

TICKER: SLF (TSX) (58%); SLF (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



633 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Currency Concerns Hold Shares in Limbo

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Sewell Chan and Jenna Wortham contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed Friday as investors looked for guidance about the economy from a range of company results, and from the meeting of the finance officials for the Group of 20 nations in South Korea.
At that meeting, the Obama administration urged the world's biggest economies to set a numerical limit on their trade imbalances, in an effort to broker an international consensus on how to handle festering exchange-rate tensions. China, whose currency battle with the United States has threatened to derail global economic cooperation, did not formally weigh in on the plan.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 14.01 points, or 0.1 percent, at 11,132.56. On Thursday, the Dow had ended at its highest level since May 3, despite wavering through the day. 
The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.72 points, or 0.8 percent, at 2,479.39 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.82 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,183.08. While the three indexes rose less than 1 percent in the week, they closed at weekly highs not seen since April.
Corporate earnings have helped lift shares this week despite uncertainty from an interest rate increase by China earlier in the week. Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst for Standard & Poor's indexes, said on Friday that more than 85 percent of the 151 companies listed on the S.& P. that had reported so far had beaten their 2009 earnings per share as of Thursday's close.
But he added that company guidance and expected earnings were more important for continued momentum, because of their implications for increases in production and employment.
''Earnings are good, but it is all from cuts,'' he said. ''We have not grown business that much.''
The results and forward-looking guidance from a range of telecommunications, manufacturing, oil industry and financial companies reports were absorbed by investors on Friday.
Verizon said its third-quarter profit declined 25 percent in the third quarter, citing pension settlements resulting from layoffs and voluntary departures. But its operating revenue, while falling to $26.5 billion from $27.3 billion in the same quarter a year ago, was slightly ahead of analysts' forecasts of $26.3 billion.
Still, Ivan G. Seidenberg, chief executive of Verizon Communications, said in a statement that the company was ''building momentum'' and ''on track'' to reach its goal of growing earnings in the second half of the year.
Verizon's share price was down 1.32 percent at $32.09.
Honeywell, which makes plane engines and other products, said that its third-quarter earnings fell but that revenue was higher; the company revised upward its forecast for the year. Its share closed at $47.26, up 1.26 percent.
The oil services company Schlumberger reported third-quarter revenue of $6.85 billion, up from the previous year's $5.43 billion; its net income rose 11 percent year on year. The company said that it expected the fourth quarter to show continued strong activity in North America on land, but that it did not expect any ''rapid return'' to deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Its share price rose more than 5 percent, to $67.77.
American Express said on Thursday that its profit rose as losses related to bad loans tapered off. Shares were down 3 percent at $39.03.
Financial shares have been struggling to overcome the fallout from the continuing foreclosure crisis.
The dollar index closed little changed.
The 10-year Treasury note declined 3/32, to 100 19/32, while the yield remained unchanged at 2.55 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (57%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); IVAN SEIDENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



634 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AS THE FRENCH LASH OUT,
Britons Carry On
If there is one quality that unites France and Britain, it is a shared history of divergence, and the differences were on full display this past week in the responses to Europe's economic malaise. While the French took to the streets, Britons barely seemed to blink. PAGE A4
FRANCE PASSES PENSION BILL 
After nearly three weeks of debate and a series of national strikes, the French Senate voted to pass President Nicolas Sarkozy's bill to raise the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60 and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. PAGE A4
National
ONE PRESIDENT,
Two Campaign Styles
Two President Obamas have traversed the West Coast this week, attending rallies in Portland, backyard chats in Seattle, and posh fund-raisers in Palo Alto before arriving at a raucous campaign event in Las Vegas to stump for Senator Harry Reid, the man the president desperately hopes will still be majority leader next year. It is the same guy playing both parts. The difference is the audience. PAGE A11
MINNESOTA GOVERNOR RACE
In a year when Republicans have high hopes for seizing a stack of Midwestern governorships from Democrats -- Iowa, Michigan and perhaps Illinois, Ohio and Wisconsin -- the race in Minnesota is seen as a rare trace of hope for Democrats to do the seizing. PAGE A13
JUDGE SPARES PRAIRIE DOGS
A Kansas rancher's long battle against the poisoning of this state's biggest prairie dog colony is being hailed as a significant victory for wildlife conservation. PAGE A14
CHANGE AFTER COMPLAINTS
Witch's Wit, a limited-edition pale ale, has promised to change the bottle's label after receiving complaints spearheaded by Vicki Noble, who is famous in the pagan and Wiccan communities. PAGE A10
New York
MOSQUES OPEN DOORS
To Dispel Myths on Islam
Hundreds of mosques and Islamic organizations across the country have been encouraging their members to invite non-Muslims to attend prayers, discussions and tours of Islamic centers as a way to defuse hostility toward the Muslim population. PAGE A16
TIBETANS PROTEST IN CHINA
Thousands of Tibetan students in western China have protested since Tuesday against proposals to curb or eliminate the use of the Tibetan language in local schools, according to reports from Tibet advocacy groups and photographs and video of the protests circulating on the Internet. PAGE A4
INDONESIA DEBATES 'HERO'
To millions, Suharto, the military strongman who ruled Indonesia for 32 years, was a tyrant, a thief and a murderer. But more than 12 years after his fall from power in a popular uprising, and two years after his death, an effort is under way to redefine his legacy as a hero. PAGE A7
CURING ILLS FOR AID PROGRAM
As the new head of the United States Agency for International Development, Dr. Rajiv Shah has an ambitious campaign to rebuild the aid agency. PAGE A7
INDONESIA CONFIRMS VIDEO
Indonesia confirmed that those seen torturing suspected separatists in a video posted online were government soldiers. PAGE A7
Business
REPORTS CITE PITFALLS
With Facebook's Target Ads
Online advertising promises to offer marketers the chance to aim ads at very specific groups of people, but two recent academic papers show some potential pitfalls of such precise tailoring of ads. Learning sensitive information like one's religion, even if that information is kept private by the user, is one. PAGE B1
NPR REMAINS UNDER FIRE
The public radio organization NPR has come under severe criticism -- largely from people who are not listeners, it believes -- for having fired Juan Williams, an analyst who said in an interview on Fox that he feels fearful when he sees people in ''Muslim garb'' on an airplane. Many conservatives have seized on his firing to resurrect their long-standing war against public broadcasting. PAGE B3
Arts
JOURNAL EDITOR FREES
Menagerie of Wordsmiths
The first issue of The Paris Review under its new editor, Lorin Stein, hit newsstands recently, and it's a thing of sober beauty, Dwight Garner writes. The issue doesn't contain many surprises, but it's a solid and auspicious start. Mr. Stein's radical act can be seen online, where the entire run of The Paris Review's storied interview series is available there for free. PAGE C1
THE GRASS IS NOT GREENER
The scary-funny comedy, ''Detroit,'' by Lisa D'Amour, set in a nameless housing tract possibly, but not necessarily, outside the city of the title, speaks to the fractious, frightened American moment more perceptively than many plays seen on a New York stage, Charles Isherwood writes. PAGE C1
Sports
IN CLUB LEAGUE,
Football Means Business
Seven club football teams in the New York and New England area are competing in the inaugural season of the Yankee Collegiate Football Conference. PAGE B9
OP-ED
Charles M. Blow PAGE A21
Bob Herbert PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); GOVERNORS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); DOGS (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WITCHCRAFT (68%); RODENTS (64%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); HARRY REID (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (52%) TIBET (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



635 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Projects May Stop When Security Ban Begins

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Contractors handling hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of projects to build roads, schools and networks for electricity and irrigation were planning to sharply limit or halt their work here if the Afghan government moves ahead with plans to enforce a decree that bans the use of private security firms, American and European officials here warned Friday.
The development companies say they will need to cancel the contracts because their employees cannot work safely without the protection of the firms, especially in less secure parts of the country where economic development is urgently needed. 
Although no projects have been stopped yet, preparations to do so are under way, according to diplomats and some contractors. The ban was scheduled to take effect on Dec. 17, leaving the Afghan Army and the police to handle contractors' security needs.
''We're not aware that any U.S.-funded projects have stopped operating, but without clarity our partners are making contingency plans for the possibility they are unable to continue their work here,'' said Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Kabul.
A Western official familiar with the aid efforts of a number of foreign governments here said the Afghan government did not seem to understand that its decision not to allow private security for development firms would -- unless amended -- be catastrophic not just for aid but also for the counterinsurgency effort.
''If they push this decree through as they said they will, it pretty much makes the lights go out in Kabul,'' the official said. ''It changes everything and has very serious ramifications.''
The decree, announced in August, bans all private security companies, including those that escort NATO convoys and diplomats. Recently, President Hamid Karzai elaborated on the decree, issuing an exemption for diplomats, who use private security to escort them when they travel.
Development companies had expected to be included in the exemption, but last week when the diplomats' exemption was announced they found they had been left out. The United States alone spends more than $3 billion on civilian development programs, American officials said.
At first some development workers here thought that Mr. Karzai had inadvertently left them out or that the Afghan government was playing a game of brinkmanship in which it was reminding development companies that it had leverage over how they did their work. Now, Mr. Karzai has repeatedly said he is not going to make an exception for them, and there appears to be a real possibility that a number of projects could be halted, they said.
Without protection, many of them cannot function here because their workers, whether foreigners or Afghans associated with foreigners, are targets for insurgents. This month a Scottish aid worker, Linda Norgrove, was kidnapped by the Taliban and later killed in a botched American rescue attempt.
The company she worked with, Development Alternatives Inc., has told the United States Agency for International Development that it will have to cancel 330 projects worth $21 million and not start several million dollars in new projects, according to a spokesman, Steven O'Connor. About 800 Afghans are employed by the company on the projects.
''The issue here is employee safety,'' Mr. O'Connor said. ''We were hoping to be included in the exemption, but since that doesn't appear to be the case, we have to make our plans for the safety of our employees.''
Mr. Karzai's insistence on the ban has confounded diplomats, some of whom have suggested that the government is playing a nationalist card to demonstrate that it can handle security on its own. On the popular Tolo television channel's nightly news on Friday, Mr. Karzai said that foreign countries were pressuring him to reconsider his plan to ban private security companies, but that he had no plans to do so. ''These pressures won't work,'' he said, adding, ''Our forces do have the power to take care of our country.''
American officials have consistently praised Mr. Karzai's overall plan to close private security companies because diplomats say they perpetuate the country's entrenched militia culture. Diplomats agreed that Mr. Karzai's plan to have the army and the police take over the security work was appropriate.
However, the four-month timetable for phasing out security companies is not considered realistic because the police and army in many places are not yet able to take on the dangerous work of protecting the employees.
The United Nations, which spends more than a half billion dollars in Afghanistan, does not believe its programs would be directly affected but is still in talks with the Afghan government, said a spokesman, Kieran Dwyer.
He added, however, that the United Nations was concerned about the impact of the decree on other organizations.
''We work with the entire international community,'' Mr. Dwyer said, ''and they have serious concerns.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TALIBAN (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (77%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%)

COMPANY: DEVELOPMENT ALTERNATIVES INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (60%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



636 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: In Minnesota, a 3-Way Race for Governor With No Incumbent

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
ST. PAUL -- If there is such a condition as debate fatigue, the people of Minnesota, who have witnessed two dozen forums for the candidates for governor, would be forgiven for having it.
The number of face-offs here has grown to the point where the campaigns do not even concur on the count (Friday's meeting in Rochester marked debate No. 25 or No. 22, depending on whom you ask), but suffice it to say that five more such meetings loom before voters pick a successor to the departing Gov. Tim Pawlenty on Nov. 2.
In a way, some here suggest, this is a year when even Minnesota, with its long tradition of intense political involvement and record high voter turnouts, did not need so many meetings: the Republican and the Democratic candidates could hardly be further apart. 
Tom Emmer, a Republican state lawmaker who has won praise from Tea Party members, has pressed for shrinking and streamlining state government. Mark Dayton, a former Democratic senator whose family was known for department stores and whom President Obama is scheduled to campaign for on Saturday, is calling for raising income taxes on the rich at a time when few candidates anywhere wish to mention tax increases of any sort.
In a year when Republicans have high hopes for seizing a stack of Midwestern governorships from Democrats -- Iowa, Michigan and perhaps Illinois, Ohio and Wisconsin -- the race here is seen as a rare trace of hope for Democrats to do the seizing. Mr. Pawlenty, a Republican who is seen as a possible presidential candidate, chose not to run again.
Polls suggest that Mr. Dayton holds a slight advantage in a close race with Mr. Emmer and that Democrats here are feeling engaged and likely to vote. But there is another ingredient: Tom Horner, a former public relations executive and the candidate of the Independence Party, is portraying himself as the moderate between two polar choices, both of which, he suggests, are too extreme for Minnesota. Mr. Horner, who once described himself as a Republican, has polled in the teens, and this is a state that takes third-party candidates seriously (Mr. Horner gets a seat in debates) and that once elected another third-party candidate, Jesse Ventura, as governor.
''These other candidates are very much to the edges, and that has created an opening,'' said Mr. Horner, who has received endorsements from The Minneapolis Star Tribune and, as of Friday according to The St. Paul Pioneer Press, from Mr. Ventura.
The choice by Republicans of Mr. Emmer, an outspoken, socially conservative state representative who won support from Sarah Palin, has created some rifts among party supporters. After a group of former Republican lawmakers said they were siding with Mr. Horner, Mr. Pawlenty issued a statement supporting Mr. Emmer and warning that Republicans who did not were helping the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party (Minnesota's version of the Democratic Party).
Ultimately, Mr. Emmer said, he believes that his economic message will reach a broad spectrum of voters and unify them.
''They're proposing billions in tax increases and we're proposing smaller, more efficient government,'' Mr. Emmer said. Asked whether he views himself as a Tea Party candidate, he said, ''I'm the endorsed Republican,'' adding later, of his Tea Party supporters, ''I welcome them.''
Mr. Dayton is well known, having spent decades in and out of government positions. But his election to the Senate in 2000 ended after one term -- and with his own assessment of the Senate's progress and his accomplishments as worthy of ''F'' grades.
Whatever other roadblocks and disappointments he found in Washington, Mr. Dayton proudly recalled his vote against an invasion of Iraq. He has repeatedly drawn questions and criticism, even now, for another move; in 2004, he was alone in closing his Senate offices at one point, responding, he said, to classified warnings of a terror threat.
On both sides, personal issues have emerged in this campaign. In separate incidents in 1981 and a decade later, Mr. Emmer was accused of driving after drinking. He pleaded guilty to careless driving. Critics have also questioned his choice to refinance his house six times. Mr. Dayton, meanwhile, has disclosed having been treated for depression and having dealt with alcoholism. Mainly, though, such matters have drawn little note. Conversations, in some of the many debates, turn quickly back to how best to lure jobs and solve a state deficit expected to hit $6 billion in the next two years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The candidates are, from left, Mark Dayton, Democrat
Tom Emmer, Republican
and Tom Horner, Independence Party. MAP
 CHART: Minnesota Governor: Mark Dayton, a Democrat and former United States senator, and Tom Emmer, a Republican state lawmaker, hope to replace Tim Pawlenty, the Republican governor who is seen as a possible presidential contender. One complication: a serious campaign from Tom Horner, the Independence Party candidate, who portrays himself as the only centrist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); TAX LAW (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TAX INCREASES (66%); RETAILERS (52%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST PUBLICATIONS INC (51%); SAINT PAUL PIONEER PRESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: MARK DAYTON (89%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SARAH PALIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



637 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Emboldened G.O.P. Takes On a California Fixture

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- California might seem the last state President Obama would need to visit to campaign for Democrats just 11 days before Election Day: he won here by 24 points just two years ago, after all.
But with a booming ''Hello L.A.!'' the president leapt onto the stage here on Friday to make the case for Senator Barbara Boxer, a Democrat locked in what is clearly the toughest race of her career.
Ms. Boxer has been on the outer rim of Republican targets this year. For all her vulnerabilities, reflected in polls that show voters unhappy with the economy and with Ms. Boxer herself, her political views are roughly in line with this Democratic state, in contrast with her Republican opponent, Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard. 
But Ms. Boxer is struggling right through these final days of her campaign for a fourth term in the Senate. Republicans -- awash in money, emboldened by what they hope will be a national anti-Democratic surge, and sensing Ms. Boxer's weaknesses -- invested $4.8 million in a last-minute effort to pull this state into the Republican column, and said they were prepared to spend more. Ms. Fiorina said on Friday that she was investing another $1 million of her own money in the campaign.
''I'm as bullish on this race as I am anywhere,'' said Rob Jesmer, the executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ''I think we have a really, really good chance. Boxer's time to kill Carly was September, and she didn't do it.''
Polls suggest that Ms. Boxer has a slight lead over her Republican opponent. But Ms. Boxer has yet to break the 50 percent margin, despite a pummeling and costly television advertising campaign aimed at Ms. Fiorina. And with the latest contributions, Ms. Fiorina appears to have assured that she would at least match Ms. Boxer in spending over these final days.
Should Ms. Boxer lose, it would increase the chances that Republicans could capture the Senate. If that were to happen, this contest could come to be viewed, in the post-mortems of Nov. 3, as the election that captured the sweep of Democratic problems. This is political ground as friendly as any that Democrats could hope for; a Republican has not been elected to the Senate here since Pete Wilson in 1988.
''When it comes to the U.S. Senate and presidential elections, California is a Republican-free zone,'' said Bob Mulholland, a Democratic strategist here.
And unlike most successful Republican candidates in this state in recent decades, Ms. Fiorina has not moved to the middle in a general election campaign: she is against abortion rights and supports off-shore drilling, for example, a point Ms. Boxer alluded to in her brief remarks introducing President Obama. On Thursday, Ms. Fiorina told a cheering crowd that she would support repeal of Mr. Obama's health care legislation; Ms. Boxer's pollster, Mark Mellman, said California may be the only state where the public supports the health care plan.
That said, Ms. Boxer's difficulties here have as much to do with what has long been an ambivalent relationship between the voters and their often hard-charging senator as anything else -- not to mention the generally sour environment for Democrats everywhere and unemployment in California now at 12.3 percent.
''The more she advertises, the worse she does,'' said Marty Wilson, Ms. Fiorina's campaign manager. ''These people don't like her. There's not a big mystery in this thing: They don't like Barbara Boxer and she's going to pay a price for that.''
And Ms. Fiorina avoids talking ideology as she casts Ms. Boxer as a symbol of entrenched Washington politicians. ''People I think all across our state are tired of career politicians,'' Ms. Fiorina said at a campaign stop in Burbank. ''In business, we solve problems. We know what it takes to solve problems. It doesn't take constant, ideological bickering.''
Still, Ms. Fiorina's record in private industry -- as well as her views on issues like abortion -- clearly provide grist for Ms. Boxer, and her campaign is planning to attack her repeatedly with advertisements on both fronts. Candidates who oppose abortion rights almost never win statewide races in California.
''A lot of people assume that a women who is a C.E.O. from Silicon Valley is probably pro-choice, she probably doesn't support off-shore drilling in California,'' said Jim Margolis, Ms. Boxer's media adviser. ''We need to make sure at the end of the day people know this and say, 'Hold on a minute, this is someone who is pretty radical by Republican standards.' ''
Mr. Mellman said, ''The basic case here is that Carly Fiorina as a C.E.O. has laid off people in California and shipped jobs to China and India.''
Mr. Wilson said that in this kind of environment -- and with an opponent like Ms. Boxer -- positions that could be disqualifying in other California races might not matter: ''They are not going to make their decisions on random social issues.''
Ms. Boxer faces another hurdle -- not from Ms. Fiorina but from the Republican candidate for governor, Meg Whitman. Ms Whitman has spent an estimated $30 million to set up a get-out-the-vote operation that could, by aiming at Republicans, end up helping Ms. Fiorina (even though polls suggest it might not be enough to help Ms. Whitman against her own Democratic opponent, Jerry Brown.)
The rally Friday with Mr. Obama, Ms. Boxer and Mr. Brown packed a field at the University of Southern California, a turnout that Democrats said could only augur well for Ms. Boxer, though it seems fair to say that people were drawn more by the prospect of seeing Mr. Obama than Ms. Boxer.
''We're here for Obama, but we're supporters of the Democratic Party,'' said Anne Baumgartner, 61. ''But if Obama weren't here today, I don't know if we would have braved the crowds.''
And before Mr. Obama took the stage, the actor Jamie Foxx led what might have been one of the more unusual chants heard at a campaign rally. ''We're not exhausted!'' he said, raising his hands as he exhorted the crowd to chant along with him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and Senator Barbara Boxer on Friday at the University of Southern California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Republican Party is spending millions to help Carly Fiorina, Ms. Boxer's rival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); ABORTION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (59%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



638 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: One President, Two Campaign Styles on West Coast Swing

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Two President Obamas have traversed the West Coast this week, attending rallies in Portland, backyard chats in Seattle, and posh fund-raisers in Palo Alto before arriving at a raucous campaign event here on Friday night to stump for Senator Harry Reid, the man the president desperately hopes will still be majority leader next year.
Obama One looks like the frenetic campaigner from 2008, yelling himself hoarse amid shouts of ''Yes, we can!'' 
Obama Two looks like the familiar president of the past two years, holding wonky talks about innovation and sustainable energy.
It is the same guy playing both parts. The difference is the audience -- and the need to appeal to two vastly disparate audiences is at the heart of the White House's last-ditch efforts to avoid a Democratic wipeout at the polls.
Obama One has to fire up the Democratic base, that core group of African-Americans, young people and women who ushered Mr. Obama into office two years ago. That means packing the field of a Las Vegas middle school with some 10,000 supporters of every imaginable color and hue, many of whom waited for three, four, five hours in the sunshine before erupting in rapturous cheers when Mr. Obama jogged onto the stage. Or filling the gymnasium at the University of Washington with 10,000 cheering students whose collective roar reached deafening levels.
Obama Two has to fill the Democratic coffers for the home stretch. That means headlining $30,000-a-plate dinners attended by sequined women with rabbit fur jackets (even in the 65-degree balm of Palo Alto) and Silicon Valley glitterati.
Obama One does Car-in-Ditch. Obama Two does High-Tech Rich.
''The Republicans took America's car and drove it into the ditch,'' Obama One said Thursday at the University of Washington rally, reprising his favorite metaphor that includes a long soliloquy about how he and the Democrats in Congress huffed and puffed to dig the car out, only to have Wall Street-friendly Republicans ask for the keys back.
''They want to cut education by 20 percent,'' he said. ''They want to use that money and then borrow more money from China and other countries to help pay for a $700 billion tax break that only the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans will ever see. That's their main economic agenda.''
But by the time the president got to the swank Palo Alto home of Marissa Mayer, a Google executive, and her husband, Zachary Bogue, a private-equity executive, a few hours later, Obama Two was running the show. ''My main message is to say 'thank you,' '' Obama Two told the 50 or so deep-pockets sipping wine and munching salmon at six tables in the Mayer-Bogue great room. He recalled that his first trip to Google as an Illinois state senator, when he first met Ms. Mayer, made it into his second book.
''How inspiring it was, and how it spoke to the essence of America,'' Obama Two said, standing next to the Mayer-Bogue granite open-kitchen counter, as a photo montage of the couple's wedding played on a computer flat screen behind him. ''The American idea that if we're innovating, if people have the tools to let their imaginations run, that there's nothing we can't do in this country.''
Obama One clearly feeds more off the crowd energy at the fire-the-base rallies than Obama Two feeds off the polite applause that greets him at the million-dollar fund-raisers. The faithful at the rallies are loud and raucous, with some of them even crying when he comes into a gymnasium. These are the people who still pinch themselves at the idea that a black guy is president, who still want to get fired up at his inspirational words.
''I just can't believe'' that Mr. Obama is president, said Anne Bowlden, a house painter who attended the Portland rally along with her sister on Wednesday. Ms. Bowlden, who is white, has lived in a black neighborhood for 35 years. She said that she and her neighbors all rejoice at the very idea of Mr. Obama.
''I'm so happy they got to see this,'' she said, pointing toward the stage. She was an easy sell; she said both she and her sister would be voting Democratic.
It was the same kind of feeling in Las Vegas on Friday, at a rally on behalf of Mr. Reid, who is desperately trying to fend off the Tea Party-backed Republican candidate, Sharron Angle. Nevada Democrats have been counting on the campaigner-in-chief to fire up voters, and Democratic leaders said that for all of his clipped approval ratings, a fired-up Obama One at a big campaign rally is still the best weapon they have.
But Obama Two has his uses too. At the two fund-raisers at private homes in the San Francisco Bay area on Thursday, he raised around $1.8 million, organizers said.
''It's going to be very important that we're able to make the choice clear about going forwards or going backwards,'' Obama Two told those gathered in the Mayer-Bogue home, just before reporters were ushered out of the kitchen and sent to the basement to cool their heels in the family's private movie theater, which came complete with popcorn machine, M&M's and Twizzlers. ''And the only way we can get that message out effectively is if we've got the support of folks like you.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (55%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (60%); AMERICA'S CAR-MART INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (60%); CRMT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (53%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARISSA MAYER (79%); HARRY REID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) WEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



639 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1259 words

PERSON: Dr. Rajiv Shah 

HEADLINE: Curing the Ills of America's Top Foreign Aid Program

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
A FEW days after Rajiv Shah was sworn in as the head of the United States Agency for International Development, he stopped by to see its rapid response center, a high-tech command post for disaster relief, which on that day stood empty and still.
Twelve hours later, an earthquake devastated Haiti, and for the next two months the center became Dr. Shah's round-the-clock home. A brainy, 37-year-old physician with little government experience, Dr. Shah suddenly found himself coordinating a desperate emergency relief effort under the gaze of President Obama.
The pace has barely let up since: catastrophic floods in Pakistan, the surge of aid workers into Afghanistan, a top-to-bottom review of American foreign assistance -- all have heavily involved Dr. Shah, turning him into one of the administration's most visible foreign policy players.
But for this politically astute son of Indian immigrants from Ann Arbor, Mich., who is now the highest-ranking Indian-American in the administration, it is his ambitious campaign to rebuild Usaid that will ultimately determine his success or failure in Washington. 
''He's inherited leadership of an agency that was nearly broken over the last two decades,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, the special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan who has testified alongside him on Capitol Hill. While Mr. Holbrooke said Dr. Shah had a ''limitless future,'' he added, ''He's going to be tested like few others are in government.''
Interviews with several Usaid employees suggest that Dr. Shah has begun to re-energize the agency in the last 10 months. His efforts recently got a major lift from the White House, which issued a new development policy that pledges to restore Usaid as the premier American aid agency.
''The initial reaction was 'Oh my God, he's so young,' '' said Pamela White, a 29-year veteran of Usaid who just completed a tour as mission director in Liberia. ''But that never bothered me. We desperately need to look up to someone who can put us in a position to be a worldwide leader in development.''
The heyday of Usaid dates back to before Dr. Shah was born. In 1968, it had 18,000 workers running programs in Latin America, Southeast Asia and Africa -- a vibrant legacy of John F. Kennedy's call for the United States to reach beyond its borders. But after years of debilitating budget cuts that drove away many talented people, the agency now has fewer than 9,000 employees.
During the Bush administration, it lost its policy-making role to the State Department. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, who has pushed for a bigger civilian role in war zones, lamented recently that Usaid had become a glorified contracting agency.
As the agency has withered, wealthy private philanthropies like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation have taken its place as leaders in development. So it is perhaps no accident that Dr. Shah is an alumnus of the Gates Foundation, where he ran its agriculture program and developed a $1.5 billion fund to finance vaccinations.
''There were things we were able to do at the Gates Foundation that were super-exciting,'' Dr. Shah said in an interview. ''You could actually say, 'O.K., my goal is to solve AIDS, and how would you solve AIDS analytically?' You didn't have to worry about the politics.''
At the same time, Dr. Shah acknowledges he was always drawn to the political arena. The son of an engineer for Ford Motor Company and a school administrator, he graduated from the University of Michigan and the University of Pennsylvania medical school, but soon became a health-policy adviser to Al Gore's presidential campaign.
A staunch supporter of Mr. Obama's candidacy, he said he viewed his election as a Kennedy moment -- worth trading weekend hikes in Washington State for the Beltway slog of Washington. His wife, Shivam Mallick Shah, has a senior post in the Department of Education.
''I'm a chronic complainer when we're not in power,'' Dr. Shah said of his decision to join the government. ''I believe that these moments in history, when you have this kind of president, are rare.''
A SOFT-SPOKEN man with a toothy but almost bashful smile, Dr. Shah can be deferential in public appearances with higher-level officials. But he is not shy about his plans, saying he seeks to bring better monitoring and analytical rigor to the agency. Some programs, he noted, get financed year after year, even if they are failing.
He wants to implant Gates-style entrepreneurialism, championing ideas that come from beyond its usual circle of contractors. At town-hall meetings, Dr. Shah is equal parts evangelist and wonk, talking about Usaid's future while larding his vocabulary with corporate-speak words like ''metrics.''
''He's very dynamic and very smart,'' said Martin J. Fisher, the chief executive of KickStart, a nonprofit organization that makes a low-cost pump to irrigate farmers' fields. ''But he's got a huge bureaucracy he's fighting against, and a lot of vested interests.''
Dr. Shah also has to contend with a boss, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has a deep interest in development and has largely won an internal administration debate over whether Usaid should be more independent or stay under the influence of the State Department.
Mr. Holbrooke, for example, still signs off on aid for Afghanistan and Pakistan -- an authority he picked up because Usaid was leaderless for months and because, he said, the programs there were a mess.
The State Department has almost finished an exhaustive, year-long review of diplomacy and development. The review will reinforce Usaid's expanded role but lash it even more firmly to the State Department.
''To the extent that State maintains firm control over Usaid, it can make it difficult for any agency to revitalize itself,'' said Connie Veillette, director of the program for rethinking foreign assistance at the Center for Global Development, an independent research group. ''Usaid needs to have a stronger voice.''
BUT there are advantages to being so closely aligned with Mrs. Clinton. Usaid is seeking funds to hire an additional 1,200 Foreign Service officers, and few people have as much clout on Capitol Hill.
Dr. Shah said critics in development circles were too focused on organizational charts; what matters is that he is in sync with Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Holbrooke. Mrs. Clinton has become his strongest champion, according to one of her senior advisers, Philippe Reines.
The agency has also managed to wrest back some control, setting up its own policy-planning shop and a small budget office.
With Usaid engaged in so many places, many of Dr. Shah's headaches stem from being too much in demand. The agency has nearly 400 Americans in Afghanistan, which has made it difficult to fill jobs in Africa.
Dr. Shah himself spends a quarter of his time on Afghanistan, but like other senior officials he plays down expectations. ''We have to be honest with ourselves about what is the goal of different programs,'' he said.
As he learns the ropes, Dr. Shah has other influential backers, not least Mr. Obama, who got to know him during meetings about the Haiti crisis in the White House Situation Room and announced the new development policy himself at the United Nations.
''As a government, we have a coherent strategy for the first time since J.F.K.,'' said David Beckmann, president of Bread for the World, which advocates for aid to alleviate hunger and poverty. ''The only good thing that came out of the Haiti earthquake,'' he added, ''is that it raised Raj Shah to be a partner of the president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DR. RAJIV SHAH
Dr. Rajiv Shah, top, toured the flood-ravaged Swat Valley in Pakistan in August, and attended the World Food Prize Conference in Des Moines this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FAROOQ NAEEM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); RANKINGS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); EARTHQUAKES (57%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); BUDGETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (93%); HAITI (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



640 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2366 words

HEADLINE: Reports Trace the Role of Iran As a Backer of Shiite Militias

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
On Dec. 22, 2006, American military officials in Baghdad issued a secret warning: The Shiite militia commander who had orchestrated the kidnapping of officials from Iraq's Ministry of Higher Education was now hatching plans to take American soldiers hostage.
What made the warning especially worrying were intelligence reports saying that the Iraqi militant, Azhar al-Dulaimi, had been trained by the Middle East's masters of the dark arts of paramilitary operations: the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps in Iran and Hezbollah, its Lebanese ally.
''Dulaymi reportedly obtained his training from Hizballah operatives near Qum, Iran, who were under the supervision of Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Quds Force (IRGC-QF) officers in July 2006,'' the report noted, using alternative spellings of the principals involved. Read the Document <check>
Five months later, Mr. Dulaimi was tracked down and killed in an American raid in the sprawling Shiite enclave of Sadr City in Baghdad -- but not before four American soldiers had been abducted from an Iraqi headquarters in Karbala and executed in an operation that American military officials say literally bore Mr. Dulaimi's fingerprints. 
Scores of documents made public by WikiLeaks, which has disclosed classified information about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, provide a ground-level look -- at least as seen by American units in the field and the United States' military intelligence -- at the shadow war between the United States and Iraqi militias backed by Iran's Revolutionary Guards.
During the administration of President George W. Bush, critics charged that the White House had exaggerated Iran's role to deflect criticism of its handling of the war and build support for a tough policy toward Iran, including the possibility of military action.
But the field reports disclosed by WikiLeaks, which were never intended to be made public, underscore the seriousness with which Iran's role has been seen by the American military. The political struggle between the United States and Iran to influence events in Iraq still continues as Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has sought to assemble a coalition -- that would include the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr -- that will allow him to remain in power. But much of the American's military concern has revolved around Iran's role in arming and assisting Shiite militias.
Citing the testimony of detainees, a captured militant's diary and numerous uncovered weapons caches, among other intelligence, the field reports recount Iran's role in providing Iraqi militia fighters with rockets, magnetic bombs that can be attached to the underside of cars, ''explosively formed penetrators,'' or E.F.P.'s, which are the most lethal type of roadside bomb in Iraq, and other weapons. Those include powerful .50-caliber rifles and the Misagh-1, an Iranian replica of a portable Chinese surface-to-air missile, which, according to the reports, was fired at American helicopters and downed one in east Baghdad in July 2007.
Iraqi militants went to Iran to be trained as snipers and in the use of explosives, the field reports assert, and Iran's Quds Force collaborated with Iraqi extremists to encourage the assassination of Iraqi officials.
The reports make it clear that the lethal contest between Iranian-backed militias and American forces continued after President Obama sought to open a diplomatic dialogue with Iran's leaders and reaffirmed the agreement between the United States and Iraq to withdraw American troops from Iraq by the end of 2011.
A Revolutionary Force
Established by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini after the 1979 Iranian revolution, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps has expanded its influence at home under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a former member of the corps, and it plays an important role in Iran's economy, politics and internal security. The corps's Quds Force, under the command of Brig. Gen. Qassem Soleimani, has responsibility for foreign operations and has often sought to work though surrogates, like Hezbollah.
While the American government has long believed that the Quds Force has been providing lethal assistance and training to Shiite militants in Iraq, the field reports provide new details about Iran's support for Iraqi militias and the American military's operations to counter them.
The reports are written entirely from the perspective of the American-led coalition. No similar Iraqi or Iranian reports have been made available. Nor do the American reports include the more comprehensive assessments that are typically prepared by American intelligence agencies after incidents in the field.
While some of the raw information cannot be verified, it is nonetheless broadly consistent with other classified American intelligence and public accounts by American military officials. As seen by current and former American officials, the Quds Force has two main objectives: to weaken and shape Iraq's nascent government and to diminish the United States' role and influence in Iraq.
For people like General Soleimani, ''who went through all eight years of the Iran-Iraq war, this is certainly about poking a stick at us, but it is also about achieving strategic advantage in Iraq,'' Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador in Iraq from 2007 until early 2009, said in an interview.
''I think the Iranians understand that they are not going to dominate Iraq,'' Mr. Crocker added, '' but I think they are going to do their level best to weaken it -- to have a weak central government that is constantly off balance, that is going to have to be beseeching Iran to stop doing bad things without having the capability to compel them to stop doing bad things. And that is an Iraq that will never again threaten Iran.''
Politics and Militias
According to the reports, Iran's role has been political as well as military. A Nov. 27, 2005, report, issued before Iraq's December 2005 parliamentary elections, cautioned that Iranian-backed militia members in the Iraqi government were gaining power and giving Iran influence over Iraqi politics.
''Iran is gaining control of Iraq at many levels of the Iraqi government,'' the report warned.
The reports also recount an array of border incidents, including a Sept. 7, 2006, episode in which an Iranian soldier who aimed a rocket-propelled grenade launcher at an American platoon trying to leave the border area was shot and killed by an American soldier with a .50-caliber machine gun. The members of the American platoon, who had gone to the border area with Iraqi troops to look for ''infiltration routes'' used to smuggle bombs and other weapons into Iraq, were concerned that Iranian border forces were trying to surround and detain them. After this incident, the platoon returned to its base in Iraq under fire from the Iranians even when the American soldiers were ''well inside Iraqi territory,'' a report noted. Read the Document <check>
But the reports assert that Iran's Quds Force and intelligence service has turned to many violent and shadowy tactics as well.
The reports contain numerous references to Iranian agents, but the documents generally describe a pattern in which the Quds Force has sought to maintain a low profile in Iraq by arranging for fighters from Hezbollah in Lebanon to train Iraqi militants in Iran or by giving guidance to Iraqi militias who do the fighting with Iranian financing and weapons.
The reports suggest that Iranian-sponsored assassinations of Iraqi officials became a serious worry.
A case in point is a report that was issued on March 27, 2007. Iranian intelligence agents within the Badr Corps and Jaish al-Mahdi, two Shiite militias, ''have recently been influencing attacks on ministry officials in Iraq,'' the report said.
According to the March report, officials at the Ministry of Industry were high on the target list. ''The desired effect of these attacks is not to simply kill the Ministry of Industry Officials,'' the report noted, but also ''to show the world, and especially the Arab world, that the Baghdad Security Plan has failed to bring stability,'' referring to the troop increase that Gen. David H. Petraeus was overseeing to reduce violence in Iraq. Read the Document <check>
News reports in early 2007 indicated that a consultant to the ministry and his daughter were shot and killed on the way to his office. The March report does not mention the attack, but it asserts that one gunman was carrying out a systematic assassination campaign, which included killing three bodyguards and plotting to attack ministry officials while wearing a stolen Iraqi Army uniform.
The provision of Iranian rockets, mortars and bombs to Shiite militants has also been a major concern. A Nov. 22, 2005, report recounted an effort by the Iraqi border police to stop the smuggling of weapons from Iran, which ''recovered a quantity of bomb-making equipment, including explosively formed projectiles,'' which are capable of blasting a metal projectile through the door of an armored Humvee. Read the Document <check>
A Shiite militant from the Jaish al-Mahdi militia, also known as the Mahdi Army, was planning to carry out a mortar attack on the Green Zone in Baghdad, using rockets and mortar shells shipped by the Quds Force, according to a report on Dec. 1, 2006. On Nov. 28, the report noted, the Mahdi Army commander, Ali al-Sa'idi, ''met Iranian officials reported to be IRGC officers at the border to pick up three shipments of rockets.''
A Dec. 27, 2008, report noted one instance when American soldiers from the 82nd Airborne Division captured several suspected members of the Jaish al-Mahdi militia and seized a weapons cache, which also included several diaries, including one that explained ''why detainee joined JAM and how they traffic materials from Iran.'' Read the Document <check>
The attacks continued during Mr. Obama's first year in office, with no indication in the reports that the new administration's policies led the Quds Force to end its support for Iraqi militants. The pending American troop withdrawals, the reports asserted, may even have encouraged some militant attacks.
A June 25, 2009, report about an especially bloody E.F.P. attack that wounded 10 American soldiers noted that the militants used tactics ''being employed by trained violent extremist members that have returned from Iran.'' The purpose of the attack, the report speculated, was to increase American casualties so militants could claim that they had ''fought the occupiers and forced them to withdraw.''
An intelligence analysis of a Dec. 31, 2009, attack on the Green Zone using 107-millimeter rockets concluded that it was carried out by the Baghdad branch of Kataib Hezbollah, a militant Shiite group that American intelligence has long believed is supported by Iran. According to the December report, a technical expert from Kataib Hezbollah met before the attack with a ''weapons facilitator'' who ''reportedly traveled to Iran, possibility to facilitate the attacks on 31 Dec.'' Read the Document <check>
That same month, American Special Operations forces and a specially trained Iraqi police unit mounted a raid that snared an Iraqi militant near Basra who had been trained in Iran. A Dec. 19, 2009, report stated that the detainee was involved in smuggling ''sticky bombs''-- explosives that are attached magnetically to the underside of vehicles -- into Iraq and was ''suspected of collecting information on CF [coalition forces] and passing them to Iranian intelligence agents.'' Read the Document <check>
A Bold Operation
One of the most striking episodes detailed in the trove of documents made public by WikiLeaks describes a plot to kidnap American soldiers from their Humvees. According to the Dec. 22, 2006, report, a militia commander, Hasan Salim, devised a plan to capture American soldiers in Baghdad and hold them hostage in Sadr City to deter American raids there.
To carry out the plan, Mr. Salim turned to Mr. Dulaimi, a Sunni who converted to the Shiite branch of the faith while studying in the holy Shiite city of Najaf in 1995. Mr. Dulaimi, the report noted, was picked for the operation because he ''allegedly trained in Iran on how to conduct precision, military style kidnappings.'' Read the Document <check>
Those kidnappings were never carried out. But the next month, militants conducted a raid to kidnap American soldiers working at the Iraqi security headquarters in Karbala, known as the Provincial Joint Coordination Center.
The documents made public by WikiLeaks do not include an intelligence assessment as to who carried out the Karbala operation. But American military officials said after the attack that Mr. Dulaimi was the tactical commander of the operation and that his fingerprints were found on the getaway car. American officials have said he collaborated with Qais and Laith Khazali, two Shiite militant leaders who were captured after the raid along with a Hezbollah operative. The Khazali brothers were released after the raid as part of an effort at political reconciliation and are now believed to be in Iran.
The documents, however, do provide a vivid account of the Karbala attack as it unfolded.
At 7:10 p.m., several sport utility vehicles of the type typically used by the American-led coalition blocked the entrance to the headquarters compound. Twenty minutes later, an ''unknown number of personnel, wearing American uniforms and carrying American weapons attacked the PJCC,'' the report said.
The attackers managed to kidnap four American soldiers, dragging them into an S.U.V., which was pursued by police officers from an Iraqi SWAT unit. Calculating that they were trapped, the militants shot the handcuffed hostages and fled. Three of the American soldiers who had been abducted died at the scene. The fourth later died of his wounds, the report said, and a fifth American soldier was killed in the initial attack on the compound.
Summing up the episode, the American commander of a police training team noted in the report that that the adversary appeared to be particularly well trained. ''PTT leader on ground stated insurgents were professionals and appeared to have a well planned operation,'' the report said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JAN. 18, 2005 TAL AFAR, IRAQ: American soldiers killed the parents of five children when the Iraqis' car failed to stop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES)
NOV. 14, 2005 BAGHDAD: Iraqi policemen said Iraqi government commandos beat them until Americans intervened. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALID MOHAMMED/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
NOV. 12, 2005 HADITHA, IRAQ: Fighting between Marines and insurgents in this western city also left many Iraqi civilians dead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCIAN READ)
JULY 23, 2007 BAGHDAD: Iraqi detainees at a joint American-Iraqi base sometimes had to wait months for a hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A platoon's interpreter, mistaken for an insurgent, is shot dead.
Marines intervene to stop prisoner abuse by the Iraqi police.
 The leader of a kidnapping plot received training in Iran. (A9) MAP (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); RELIGION (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



641 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Prevails in Trade Dispute With China

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States claimed victory Friday in a trade dispute with China, after a World Trade Organization panel largely upheld tariffs that were imposed on an array of Chinese-made steel pipes, tires and other products during the Bush administration.
China had used a number of technical arguments in a September 2008 challenge to antidumping duties, which are supposed to compensate for unfair pricing and countervailing duties that are used to offset improper government subsidies. But a W.T.O. dispute settlement panel rejected most of those arguments. 
The Bush administration announced levies on $200 million of steel pipe shipments from China, South Korea and Mexico in July 2008, a month after imposing similar countervailing duties involving a different kind of steel pipe. The Obama administration has defended those decisions.
''This is a significant win for American workers and businesses affected by unfairly traded imports,'' said the United States trade representative, Ron Kirk. ''This case makes clear that the Obama administration, including U.S.T.R. and our colleagues at the Department of Commerce, will vigorously defend the application of our trade remedy laws.''
The duties that were upheld on Friday had been imposed on a variety of specialized goods: circular welded pipe, certain pneumatic off-road tires, light-walled rectangular pipe and tube and laminated woven sacks.
China's challenge revolved around many technical questions, including whether state-owned enterprises and state-owned commercial banks could be properly considered public bodies that provide subsidies.
The ruling comes at a time of increasing tensions over currency and trade between China and the United States. The Obama administration has agreed to investigate a complaint brought by the United Steelworkers over China's support for its clean energy industries, and is concerned about Chinese efforts to block exports shipments of valuable minerals known as rare earths.
''These findings are especially important at a time when the United States is vigorously implementing W.T.O.-consistent tools to address China's unfair trade practices and to address global imbalances,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, one of the most outspoken House members on China's decision to hold down the value of its currency, the renminbi. ''We should not let the possibility of meritless allegations of W.T.O. inconsistency prevent us from standing up for U.S. workers and businesses.''
The W.T.O. panel was established in January 2009 and held hearings in July and November of that year. Both China and the United States have up to 60 days to appeal the panel's ruling, which ran to 283 pages and was published on the Web site of the W.T.O., which is based in Geneva. China joined the organization in 2001.
In a separate case, the United States International Trade Commission, an independent federal agency that assesses whether imports unfairly damage American industry, on Friday authorized the Commerce Department to impose both antidumping and countervailing duties on coated paper from China and Indonesia that is used in sheet-fed presses.
The commission found that the papers, which are used to produce high-quality graphics, had been unfairly subsidized and sold in the United States at less than market value.
Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat who had submitted testimony to the trade commission in the coated-paper case, applauded the ruling.
''American producers face an inexcusable flood of dumped Chinese paper -- subsidized from 10 to 15 percent of product cost,'' he said after meeting with workers at Smart Papers, a coated-paper manufacturer in Hamilton, Ohio.
Mr. Brown said the decision ''shows why rigorous trade law enforcement is critical to the economic security of our workers and viability of domestic manufacturing,'' but he also argued that China's currency policies should be considered in future trade remedy cases.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The W.T.O. upheld American tariffs on Chinese-made steel pipes. (B1)
 Pipes in Shanxi Province, China. Tariffs were imposed on tires and woven sacks, too. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); TIRES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); WEB SITES (60%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); SANDER M LEVIN (57%); RON KIRK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



642 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Austerity Overdose

 BODY:
There is a time and a place for aggressive deficit reduction. Now is not the time, especially not in Britain. The deep spending cuts announced by Prime Minister David Cameron's government will hobble public services, strain poor families' budgets and weaken Britain's influence abroad. They could suffocate a feeble recovery. 
Mr. Cameron and his team appear to be driven solely by Conservative Party articles of faith. They are gambling on the improbable theory that in a period of weak consumer demand, the private sector will generate enough business activity to replace the $130 billion the government will be withdrawing from the economy over the next four and half years. We are not sure why the Liberal Democrats, the coalition's junior partners, are going along.
On average, government departments will have to slash their spending by an average of nearly 20 percent. The National Health Service was shielded from cuts, and after a last-minute intervention by Mr. Cameron at Washington's behest, the military budget will be cut by only 8 percent.
Most military reductions will come through sensible retrenchments like delaying the replacement of Britain's nuclear missile submarines and drawing down British forces stationed in Germany. But they will still require significant reductions in the number of British troops available for any new major NATO operations.
Shielding the military and the health service, while essential, required cutting more recklessly elsewhere. Nearly 500,000 public jobs (out of 6 million) will be eliminated. Long-term unemployment benefits will be cut off after 12 months. Public housing tenants will pay higher rents. School construction will be cut by 60 percent.
Recession, bank rescues and short-term stimulus spending pushed Britain's deficit up to 11.5 percent of total economic output, even higher than the United States' 10.7 percent. Both countries will have to bring those numbers down over time. But otherwise healthy economies can afford to run fiscal deficits in times of weak private sector growth. In fact, they cannot afford not to.
Britain's deficits did not spawn bond market panics. Interest rates remained low. That left room for a nuanced policy that relied on a reviving economy to boost tax receipts and deferred major spending cuts until a solid recovery was under way. Unfortunately, Britain's leaders chose posture over sound economics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); BONDS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010



643 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PERSONAL JOURNEYS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: The Tricks and Trials of Traveling While Fat

BYLINE: By ROB GOLDSTONE

 BODY:
AS soon as I board an aircraft, the first thing I do is make a beeline for the flight attendant and begin a routine that has changed little in 20 years:
Discreetly, I point toward my stomach, offer a half-smile and wait for a nod. Once I'm in my seat, I prepare for the ''handoff.'' Without making eye contact, the flight attendant approaches, and, like a player in a secret drug deal, quickly slips a small package into my palm: a seat belt extender.
At 285 pounds and 5 feet 7 inches, I may not be the tallest, but I am almost always one of the biggest passengers on a plane. That's ''one of'': as anyone with even the most tangential relationship with news headlines over the last several years knows, Americans are getting fatter and fatter. And as the well-proportioned gird themselves for the hassles of holiday travel, plus-size travelers like me prepare for a plus-sized ordeal. 
It starts with finding a place to sit on the plane. The airline industry has responded to its ever-widening clientele with new rules: a handful of carriers, including United and Southwest, now insist that passengers who cannot fit comfortably into an economy seat (with the armrests down) buy a second seat (something I've done for years whenever possible); and three domestic carriers have instituted a policy that bans overweight people from sitting in exit rows. (Our bulk, they reason, could hinder an evacuation in an emergency.)
Yet for large travelers like me, the issues persist long after we have figured out whether to buy one seat or two. Going through airport security, for example, I could set off the metal detector not because I'm smuggling a box cutter or pistol, but because my girth comes too close to the sides of the machine, prompting it to beep. (After years of trial and error, I have a technique to eliminate this embarrassing possibility: I extend my arms forward, lower them with my palms out and twist my torso slightly to one side.)
But for truly novel challenges one must leave America, where being fat, in many ways, has become the new normal.
Having visited more than 50 countries in the last 20 years, I have become extremely adept at remaining calm and unfazed throughout situations that unfold because of my weight. Still, there have been occasions when I've been caught off guard.
''How many kilos you weigh?'' asked a customs officer at Ho Chi Minh Airport when I visited Vietnam a few years ago.
''Is that a question on the form?'' I responded, slightly unnerved.
Smiling, she told me no. She was apparently just curious.
After giving me the once-over, she giggled and advised me to avoid riding in the local hand-pulled rickshaws, as my size could force them to tip over. ''Welcome to Vietnam,'' she offered cheerily, as I skulked away muttering.
In Rio de Janeiro, public transportation proved to be the issue. I've visited Brazil many times, and on my last trip I convinced myself that I was an honorary Carioca, a true Rio native. As such, it was only appropriate that I should travel along the world-famous beach to Leblon as the locals do: by bus.
What I hadn't anticipated was that to sit down, I would have to first squeeze through a tiny turnstile. For the sleek Cariocas, this is a piece of cake. For me, because of one too many pieces of cake, this was impossible. With a packed busload of riders staring at me curiously, my chubby cheeks turned a bright crimson. Finally, after what felt like an eternity, an English-speaking passenger pointed at two seats almost hidden behind the driver. ''You can sit there,'' he said. ''They are for the old and disabled and for people who are very big.''
In China, traveling while fat turned farcical. I had been in Beijing less than 48 hours when I started to notice small children running up to me and touching my stomach before scurrying away in fits of laughter. Day and night they continued to approach me, poking and prodding at my belly.
On a walk through the Forbidden City, a local guide explained to me what was happening. ''The kids think you are Buddha,'' he said, ''and they are rubbing your belly for good luck. You are Happy Buddha.'' At a local souvenir shop, my guide showed me a statue of the Happy Buddha. Except for a shaved head and a hoop earring, the Happy Buddha and I could have been brothers.
In neighboring Thailand my embarrassment was caused when a Bangkok tailor used ''special'' fabric to create a one-of-a-kind shirt for me. Only when I was seated in the lobby of the world-famous Oriental Hotel and noticed the stares of guests did it become clear that my shirt had been made with the same material used to cover the hotel's furnishings. It brought a whole new meaning to blending in with your surroundings.
Over the years, I've sometimes wondered what it would feel like to travel with less physical baggage, to be able to check my Buddha belly before boarding and to know that I could settle into an airline seat comfortably without the need for the belt extender. And what it would be like to travel without being a curiosity.
This year, there's hope for me yet: On my way back through Australia, I have planned a side trip to Fiji, where plus-size travelers are revered for their bulk. And on the way there, of course, I'll try to upgrade to a larger seat.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); METAL DETECTORS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); SMUGGLING (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



644 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: LIVING IN POUND RIDGE, N.Y.; Keeping the Peace, Fearing for the Quiet

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IT used to be that the only thing keeping Gary D. Warshauer up at night was the chatter of crickets and the howl of coyotes.
There was little about this 23-square-mile municipality in northeastern Westchester to trouble Mr. Warshauer, its town supervisor: the underground water supply, all 11 aquifers of it, was untainted; more than a third of town land had been set aside as open space; and the minimum residential lot size was an acre.
Indeed, the housing developments, highways and malls that mark the landscape of many surrounding towns had bypassed Pound Ridge, which does not have even a single traffic light.
Now, however, Mr. Warshauer sees a different kind threat to this town of picturesque hills and dales, where tumbledown stone walls line graceful, winding roads. The threat is coming from the sky, in the form of low-flying airplanes. These have caused the supervisor, among others, to toss and turn in bed. 
The Federal Aviation Administration has begun working on a plan to shift air traffic patterns inland, and according to Mr. Warshauer, who has been supervisor since 2004, ''It could impact in a very negative way what we've worked so hard to preserve here in Pound Ridge.''
The new routing, to begin sometime next year, could affect national routes, as well as those for LaGuardia, said James Peters, an agency spokesman in Jamaica, Queens. Mr. Warshauer sees the changes as potentially menacing not only the quality of human life but also the future of endangered species in ecologically sensitive conservation land. But according to Mr. Peters, agency studies indicated there would be no adverse ecological effects. In any event, the threat of increased noise and emissions is worrisome enough that residents have formed an Alliance for Sensible Airspace Planning, with complaint hotline numbers posted on the town's Web site. Pound Ridge is one of several municipalities mustering opposition.
Another modern technology that generates ambivalence these days is cellular telephone service.
Until recently, Mr. Warshauer said, residents returning home to their rural retreats from high-pressure jobs in Manhattan, or Stamford and Greenwich in nearby Connecticut, might have grumbled about poor cellphone reception in low-lying areas, but they generally weren't eager for anything beyond the town's single cell tower.
Now the quest is on for a second tower, and while most residents agree on the need, few like the idea of the new equipment anywhere near their backyard, Mr. Warshauer added.
Vivian and Peter Falco, who bought their first house in Pound Ridge 25 years ago and reared two sons there, say they are grateful the town has remained essentially unspoiled.
In 1985, they paid $270,000 for a three-bedroom ranch on two acres with a pond. A decade later, Ms. Falco, a physical therapist, and her husband, a commercial real estate investor, spent $700,000 to build their next home, a four-bedroom colonial on three acres.
''During that time,'' Ms. Falco said, ''we've seen more and more land built on. And the street we live on, which lies in three watershed areas, has changed from a road half filled with houses to one that is now 90 percent built on.''
Still, she noted, over that period more land has been set aside as open space, to mitigate the impact of the growth.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
This town of almost 5,000, shaped like a backwards ''L,'' is bordered to the southeast and south by New Canaan and Stamford in Connecticut, and otherwise surrounded by Bedford and Lewisboro. Residents have included celebrities like the Bush White House spokesman Ari Fleischer, the actor Richard Gere and the newscaster Tom Brokaw.
As of last year there were 1,923 single-family homes, up from 1,806 10 years earlier and from 1,668 in 1992, said Karen Taft, the administrator for the planning and the zoning boards. Since last year, because of the economy, the town has received only one or two new building applications, she said. There are no multifamily homes, and only a smattering of accessory apartments found in a few homes and above stores.
But the value of local real estate has been hard hit, despite the fact that the estimated median household income in Pound Ridge in 2008 was $191,439 -- almost two and a half times the county median. In recent years, many residents lost high-paying jobs and major investments, said Gloria Marwell, an associate broker with Prudential Holmes and Kennedy in Bedford; price cuts across the board reflect that.
''The downward trend came late to Pound Ridge,'' Ms. Marwell said, ''but we were not exempt. Last year we also saw increasing numbers of short sales and foreclosures.'' Additionally, she said, the fraud perpetrated by Bernard L. Madoff, who lived nearby in Greenwich, ''hit people in this area, too.'' Similarly Paul Greenwood, a hedge fund manager and a former supervisor of North Salem, who has pleaded guilty to misappropriating $554 million in client funds, promoted his schemes in Pound Ridge circles, Ms. Marwell said.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
As of Oct. 11, 94 homes were on the market. At the low end, a two-bedroom one-bath ranch is listed at $297,000. In the middle, a five-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath colonial on 3.61 acres is listed at $1.5 million. For $10 million, there is a six-bedroom five-and-a-half-bath colonial with a caretaker's cottage on 11.9 acres.
The median sales price is $850,000; the lowest so far this year was $295,000 and the highest was $3.325 million, according to statistics from Prudential Holmes and Kennedy. That compares with the overall single-family median in Westchester of $607,500 at the end of the second quarter.
Out of 43 houses sold so far this year, 30 went for less than $1 million, a reflection of two factors at work in the market: the conservative bent of buyers when it comes to spending today, and their desire to avoid paying a 1 percent luxury tax on homes over $1 million, Ms. Marwell said.
WHAT TO DO
Most of the shopping and dining is concentrated in Scotts Corners, an area of several blocks with a retail establishment, Eileen Godfrey Miniatures, which sells the least expensive homes in town. Its dollhouses start at a few hundred dollars and go up to several thousand, unfurnished.
Shoppers for unusual wares also flock to Antiques and Tools of Business and Kitchen, a shop with a yard full of old and not-so-old household items. Dining options include DiNardo's Ristorante Italiano, which has homemade pasta, and North Star Restaurant, which offers upscale American cuisine.
On weekends, Gordon Kahn and Ed Galloway often take their three children to the Town Park, which has ball fields, tennis courts, playgrounds, swimming pools and picnic areas.
This time of year especially, they enjoy apple-picking at local farms, and when the snow falls, they bundle up to go sledding at Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, a 4,315-acre county-owned park.
Fall and winter weekends are also ideal for gathering in front of a fireplace. Mr. Kahn and Mr. Galloway, and their children Joanie and Lillie, 10, and Harry, 7 -- along with their two dogs, Molly, a bloodhound, and Newcomb, a miniature poodle -- have five fireplaces in their 1700s-vintage four-bedroom home. The couple bought the place six years ago for $1.2 million, using it as a summer retreat until 2008.
THE COMMUTE
Some Pound Ridge residents drive across the state border to the Metro-North Railroad station in Stamford, which has ample parking. The rush-hour ride on the New Haven line to Grand Central Terminal takes about 50 minutes. On the Web, a monthly ticket runs $258.72.
THE SCHOOLS
Ned and Carla Brand, who have two children, Austin, 12, and Colette, 6, were attracted by the high quality of the Bedford Central School District. Last spring, when they received an offer they said they couldn't refuse on their house in Park Slope, Brooklyn, they felt the time was ripe.
To persuade Austin, who ''claimed we were 'ruining his life,' '' said Mr. Brand, a prekindergarten teacher in Manhattan, ''we had to offer him an alternative that was pretty special.''
This fall they moved into a 1985 four-bedroom contemporary on four acres with spectacular views. The $1 million house and property were compelling, Mr. Brand said, but the final factor for him and his wife, an account executive with an advertising agency, was the test scores of seniors at Fox Lane High School in Bedford, which students living in Pound Ridge attend.
SAT averages in 2010 were 548 in reading, 566 in math and 540 in writing, versus 485, 502 and 478 statewide.
THE HISTORY
In the 1930s, Hiram Halle, a New York inventor and businessman, moved to Pound Ridge and began restoring houses damaged by the British during the Revolution. The real estate attracted actors, writers, artists and musicians seeking a getaway from Manhattan. Benny Goodman, among the first of them, was so enraptured that he wrote a song titled ''Pound Ridge,'' currently available in an album called ''Undercurrent Blues [Proper],'' released in 2006.
Correction: November 7, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The ''Living In'' article on Oct. 24, about Pound Ridge, N.Y., misidentified the municipality in which Fox Lane High School is located. It is in Bedford, not Mount Kisco.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BACKS TO NATURE: Taken together with a lot of other protected land, Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, a county-owned tract of more than 4,000 acres, makes Pound Ridge wealthy in open space. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIME) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (85%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); WATER QUALITY (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); BIOLOGY (69%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (69%); CIVIL AVIATION (68%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (61%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010



645 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: THE BLOG: Mazda 2 Fuel Economy to Rise

BYLINE: By RICHARD S. CHANG

 BODY:
4:51 p.m. Updated An earlier version of this post said the next Mazda 2 would get 70 miles per gallon. A Mazda spokesman clarified late on Thursday that the result was achieved from the Japanese test cycle. Fuel economy numbers will be lower in the United States. 
After the deluge of publicity surrounding the Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Leaf -- two cars bearing the exclusivity of low production numbers and high prices -- people seeking high mileage at low cost might find some solace in Mazda's announcement this week that its coming fourth generation Demio (Mazda 2 in the United States) would get 15 percent better gas mileage than the existing model.
The Mazda release said the car would achieve 70 miles per gallon, but that number was based on the Japanese test cycle, meaning American mileage would be lower. A 15 percent increase from the existing Mazda 2 would result in a combined 37 m.p.g. (For comparison, the Toyota Prius, which gets a combined 50 m.p.g. from the Environmental Protection Agency, achieves 89 m.p.g. in the Japanese test.)
The Demio goes on sale in Japan in the first half of 2011, though the United States will not likely get the car for at least a couple of years because the third-generation Mazda 2 just hit showrooms in America this year. Its fuel efficiency numbers are 28 m.p.g. in the city and 35 on the highway.
So how will Mazda achieve the 15 percent increase? Through a wide-reaching technology reboot -- engines, transmissions, vehicle bodies and chassis -- that it files under the label Skyactiv.
''Mazda is renewing its entire powertrain and platform lineup at the same time as revolutionizing every manufacturing process from R.&D. through to mass production,'' said Takashi Yamanouchi, Mazda's president and chief executive. ''There have been no compromises in addressing conflicting goals. Instead, we have implemented a 'breakthrough' approach to technical innovation in all areas that has produced incredible, unexpected results.''
The fourth-generation Demio will be the first product with Skyactiv technology. It will be equipped with what Mazda calls Skyactiv-G, a new direct-injection gas engine that features, among other things, a lofty compression ratio of 14.0:1. By comparison, the compression ratio of the current Mazda 2 is 10.0:1.
Among the other Skyactiv projects in development are a clean diesel engine, a highly efficient automatic transmission and a lightweight body and chassis. Mazda says it is also developing regenerative braking and hybrid technology, all of which is part of a giant push to overhaul the company's technologies by 2015.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



646 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: The Price of a 'No-Cost' Loan

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
HOME buyers concerned about high closing costs in this tight economy might be tempted by a type of loan that requires no cash outlay in exchange for paying a higher interest rate, especially because rates are already at historically low levels.
But these ''zero-cost'' or ''no-cost'' financing deals, as they're known, could end up costing a borrower dearly over time, some mortgage experts warn. 
''I've always seen them as a marketing ploy,'' said Charles S. Light, a branch manager of Odyssey Funding. ''If you're going to be in the loan more than five years, it usually does not make sense.''
Unlike some similar loans, which don't require an out-of-pocket outlay but tack on the thousands of dollars in closing costs to the balance, zero- and no-cost loans typically add a half percentage point or so to the rate while not increasing the mortgage balance.
The third-party fees -- for the appraisal, credit report, title insurance, recording, and, if you use one, mortgage broker -- are paid by the lender. The fees, including how much the broker is making on the loan, are disclosed on the closing statement.
But if you bypass a broker and go straight to the lender there is less transparency, because the loan officer doesn't have to disclose how much the lender is making off the loan.
The math on no-cost loans, which can be used for both purchases and refinancing, and which come in fixed and adjustable rates lasting 3 to 30 years, is simple.
Say you opt for a $300,000 no-cost, fixed-rate loan at 5 percent for 30 years, instead of coughing up $6,000 in closing costs and paying 4.5 percent interest. If that's your choice, you will have monthly payments of $1,610.
By paying the closing costs up front for the 4.5 percent rate, you recover those costs at 66 months, according to Mr. Light. But you also have a monthly payment of $1,520 -- $90 lower than the no-cost option. That adds up to a savings of $32,547 in interest over the life of the loan.
No- or zero-cost loans can seem appealing to residents of New York, who face a mortgage tax of 1.8 percent (around 0.8 percent if they live in the state but outside the city), as well as fees for a bank-hired lawyer.
''People are so tight on cash, it allows people to save out of pocket,'' said Thomas Martin, the president of America's Watchdog, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington.
But Mr. Martin added that buyers should plug in the numbers on an amortization calculator (one is available at www.federalreserve.gov) and compare them with those for a conventional loan. If you plan to refinance a no-cost loan within several years -- an option that might make financial sense for some people -- make sure you have no prepayment penalty, he added.
Zero-cost loans emerged in the early 1990s and blossomed during the mortgage boom, when they were sold by big banks and lenders alongside no-documentation loans and other subprime products, mainly to lower-income consumers who lacked cash.
TODAY, Mr. Martin said, tighter lending and disclosure requirements make the no-cost option ''a totally different animal than five years ago,'' with lenders now much stricter about verifying income levels.
Still, some big banks, including Bank of America, no longer make them available.
''We're focused on offering products that offer complete transparency to the customer,'' said Terry Francisco, a spokesman for Bank of America.
Loan-volume numbers are difficult to come by, though other banks, including Wells Fargo, still offer the loans. The Wells Fargo one, called Closing CostSaver, typically runs a half to five-eighths of a percentage point higher than conventional loans and comes in 10- to 30-year terms.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); LAWYERS (60%); TITLE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



647 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Pirate Latitudes

BYLINE: By DAVID KAMP. 
David Kamp, a contributing editor for Vanity Fair, is the author of ''The United States of Arugula.''

 BODY:
DJIBOUTI
By Elmore Leonard
279 pp. William Morrow/HarperCollins Publishers. $26.99
What's up, you might ask, with the Sir David Lean-ish title? For 50 years, Elmore Leonard has specialized in hoodlums who ply their trade in tacky, unexotic locales: guys like Chili Palmer, the Miami loan shark whose moviemaking aspirations take him to B-list Hollywood in ''Get Shorty'' (1990), and Stick Stickley, the Detroit ex-con whose heisting aspirations take him to the gutter-ball precincts of Chili's Miami in ''Stick'' (1983).
Can ''Djibouti'' really be set in the tiny East African nation that abuts Somalia and the Gulf of Aden? If the past is any precedent, it's more likely that Leonard is using said nation's irresistibly suggestive name as the pretext for some leering character's off-color heinie joke. 
But two paragraphs in, it becomes clear that the African setting is for real. Dara Barr, a documentary filmmaker from New Orleans, touches down in Djibouti in an Air France plane. Dara, too, is a departure from the Leonard norm. She has no criminal past, and the only big score she's hustling for is a cinematic one: she's come to the Horn of Africa to make a movie about Somali pirates.
Though only in her 30s, Dara is an accomplished director with the full complement of her profession's prestige hardware: a Cannes award for her film about oppressed women in Bosnia, a Sundance trophy for her picture about American white supremacists and an Oscar for her most recent doc, a you-are-there portrait of her hometown as it was swallowed up by Hurricane Katrina.
Her cameraman and sidekick is a fellow New Orleanian whom she met on the Katrina project, a slender 6-foot-6, 72-year-old black man named Xavier LeBo. Xavier has spent most of his life as a crewman on merchant ships, and thus has both the sailing and life experience to help Dara navigate the region's choppy waters, literally and figuratively. He also comes equipped with the Leonard penchant for folksy speech that does away with relative pronouns (''Situations can rise up you never been in before''; ''Get financin from some rich guy loves you'').
Dara's simple goal at the outset is to talk to the pirates, to ''get their side, the entire shipping world against them,'' as she puts it. But to paraphrase another great documentarian, Marty Di Bergi of ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' she gets more, a lot more. She makes the acquaintance of a suave pirate, Idris Mohammed, who defies her gritty preconceptions by living extravagantly in a Somali McMansion and a Djibouti bachelor pad while he awaits ransom payments for the ships his men are holding. Not only that, but Idris is also in cahoots with a double-dealing Arab-diplomat type named Harry Bakar, putatively a mediator between the outlaws and the International Maritime Organization.
On top of that, there's a fattened Texas oil heir named Billy Wynn prowling the Gulf of Aden in his luxury cruiser, indulging his military fetishism by conducting freelance espionage work with the help of Helene, an auburn-haired fashion model auditioning to be his wife. Billy has his sights trained, as do Idris and Harry, on a huge Somali-hijacked tanker whose highly combustible cargo is liquefied natural gas -- and whose crew, before the hijacking, had been infiltrated by two Qaeda operatives.
In other words, the stage is set for an elaborately interlaced web of cons, crosses, goofs and intrigues; ''Djibouti,'' for all its travelogue aspects and newsy urgency, is not such a departure from the Leonard template after all. Everyone's an operator, the overall atmosphere is louche verging on alcoholic (this in a Muslim country, no less) and the principals gab, gab, gab in that meta-conscious, pop-savvy way to which Quentin Tarantino owes such a debt. (Helene reflects that Billy reminds her of Jack D. Ripper, the nutso general played by Sterling Hayden in ''Dr. Strangelove''; Xavier, himself a Morgan Freeman character waiting to happen, suggests that Naomi Watts should play Dara in the feature version of their African adventure.)
Leonard has done this sort of thing dozens of times before, and he still does it well; even in near-equatorial heat, his players keep their hepcat cool. But sometimes ''Djibouti'' is too cool for its own good, particularly where Dara is concerned. She's a hard one to figure out. The nature of her curriculum vitae, along with her outdoorsy attractiveness, suggests a pious crusader in the vein of the real-life documentary filmmaker Rory Kennedy or the author and Obama policy adviser Samantha Power -- someone Leonard might skewer for her earnestness and solemnity, for overly relishing the mouthfeel of the word ''Darfur.''
But Dara, intrepid though she may be, isn't that kind of do-gooder. She registers no shock, experiences no culture-clash wobbles and evinces no sense of fear about the extraordinarily dangerous circumstances into which she's been thrust. She provides no counterpoint, no texture; she's another seen-it-all Leonard wiseacre who mainlines Cognac and speaks in sassy double entendres. (Beggaring our belief, Dara even starts dropping relative pronouns, saying of a particularly prolific terrorist, ''I think he's the kind keeps score.'' Come on!)
Leonard also makes a curious choice to let much of the novel's first half unfold as a conversation between Dara and Xavier as they review their footage on her laptop: a transparently expository device that occasionally compels them to speak in predigested plot chunklets -- as when Xavier says: ''Now I shoot Idris changin the channel from Al Jazeera to CNN and we see a container ship flyin the Stars and Stripes. The Maersk Alabama, the first American ship, captain and crew, taken by the Somalis.''
A result is that the story gets too slack and samey for pages at a time, stalling while the zingers volley back and forth and the waiters bring over another round of drinks. A few years back, Leonard published a slim little stylebook called ''Elmore Leonard's 10 Rules of Writing,'' Rule 10 of which is ''Try to leave out the part that readers tend to skip.'' He'd have done well to heed that one.
It's not that Leonard, who turned 85 this month, has lost his mojo. Far from it; he also has a collection just out, Comfort to the Enemy: And Other Carl Webster Stories (Harper, paper, $14.99), that's as sharp and economical in its storytelling as anything he's ever done. (The book bundles two recent stories about Carl Webster, the Dust Bowl-era United States marshal who stars in Leonard's novels ''The Hot Kid'' and ''Up in Honey's Room,'' with a Webster novella that was first serialized in The New York Times Magazine.)
And once ''Djibouti'' finally kicks into gear, it becomes a propulsive, bracingly brisk read, almost a different book. The catalyst is the emergence of an American-born Qaeda terrorist named Jama Raisuli, an African-American who converted to Islam in prison, hopped the Atlantic upon his release and has since developed into a top prospect in the bin Laden organization. Like everyone else in Leonardland, Jama is cooler than any counterpart he'd have in real life -- he doesn't do suicide bombings, he says, because ''there enough boys can't wait to go to Paradise'' -- but he's as nihilistically evil as a terrorist is supposed to be: a splash of cold water on Dara and company's floating party.
It takes some hanging in there, but ''Djibouti'' winds up being a first-rate Leonard offering, one that will find you pawing your touch-screen reading device in untoward ways to find out what happens next. Just one bit of advice to the author for next time: Get shorter.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); SOMALI PIRACY (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); HURRICANES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); MARINE SHIPPING (66%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%) DJIBOUTI (90%); SOMALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EASTERN AFRICA (89%); AFRICA (79%)

TITLE: Djibouti (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



648 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Help Them, Teach Them, but Don't Live Through Them

BYLINE: By DAVE MARCUS. 
David L. Marcus is the author of ''Acceptance: A Legendary Guidance Counselor Helps Seven Kids Find the Right Colleges -- and Find Themselves'' (Penguin Press).

 BODY:
THE woman corners me after I give a speech about college admissions.
''My son isn't the best student,'' she begins, ''but we think he has a good chance of getting into. ...''
I can guess: Stanford or Duke, Yale or Northwestern. I'm sure I already know the story. The boy has a B-plus average and disappointing SAT scores, but Dad went there, and a family friend used to work in the admissions office. 
For seven years, I've crisscrossed the country, discussing what I learned while writing two books about teenagers. Help your children find their hidden talents, I advise parents. Teach your children to be independent. Don't live your dreams through your son or daughter.
As this mother shares her application strategies, I want to recommend that she let her son find his path. I stay quiet, though, because I'm struggling to follow my own advice.
Somewhere in my files, I have a photo of my son, Benjie, and me on the steps of the admissions office of my alma mater, Brown University. We were framed by glowing yellow forsythia, and I was beaming.
Benjie was 2 weeks old.
At the time, I was a fellow at Harvard. Soon after, I did a brief teaching stint at Dartmouth's Tuck School of Business. I secretly hoped my son would go to one of those Ivy campuses. Maybe I saw that as the seal of approval for my parenting -- my boy in Cambridge, Mass., or Hanover, N.H., or Providence, R.I.
Benjie demonstrated, by his nature, that he had other plans. In kindergarten, he was the restless one who preferred exploring to listening to directions. When a private school turned him down for first grade, I felt I'd been gut-punched.
The homework wars erupted in fourth grade -- a 20-minute assignment stretched on for three hours, punctuated by cries of ''I hate writing!'' Later, while I tried to explain long division, he stormed out of the house. He stayed in the yard till dark, digging holes and watching birds.
I pushed enrichment; he refused to try ''stupid'' scouting. He dropped soccer. Basketball lasted long enough for me to buy a uniform.
Experts analyzed Benjie with standardized tests, and I fretted over his percentiles and hired tutors. At the same time, it seemed most of my friends' preteens were doing genome research.
Benjie is 14 now. At that age, I pestered teachers for extra-credit assignments. Benjie is satisfied with a C; he doesn't understand why anyone cares about spelling words correctly; the notion of revising an essay is foreign to him.
At 14, I knew I wanted to be a writer. When I ask Benjie what he sees himself doing in 10 years, he answers vaguely about working with animals. But he most likely won't be a vet -- too much chemistry and biology, he says.
And yet Benjie has so much that I lack. As a teenager, I was a shy, awkward outsider. The other day, walking through Benjie's school for a meeting, I saw him regaling a group of kids in the hallway with some fascinating tale.
More important, he's developed empathy. When he and six other students saw a classmate accused of shoplifting on a school trip, Benjie persuaded the others to avoid gossiping.
Last summer, I envisioned Benjie toiling in a lab at science camp, but I lost the will to fight another battle. Instead, I sent him to stay with my brother and sister-in-law, who breed dogs. At their house, work begins at 5:30 a.m., seven days a week. Benjie would have to follow orders without excuses.
Three hundred miles away, I waited for the call begging to come home. Instead, I got one-word texts like ''awsomme'' -- misspelled every time, in true Benjie fashion.
When the visit ended, my sister-in-law sent a note saying that Benjie had pitched in tirelessly with chores and even cleaned the yard after 17 spaniels dirtied it. He groomed dogs for two hours straight without getting antsy.
''Benjie is an amazing kid and human being,'' she wrote. ''He is smart, funny, curious, caring.''
Twelfth grade is a few years away, but I'm already imagining Benjie's application essay: ''My name is Benjamin but no one calls me that. I'm an animal-loving, cello-playing, cross-country-running nomad who has gone to six school districts in three states because of my dad's stupid career.''
I spend a lot of time in high-pressure communities, speaking to anxious mothers and fathers like me. We want our children to go to great colleges and prepare for a brutal job market.
Still, I tell families to stop obsessing about campuses with marquee names. I've visited dozens of little-known schools where professors are far more engaged in teaching than members of Ivy League faculties. Also, in this economy, I can make a strong case for going to community college, mastering a trade or taking a gap year to earn money.
Above all, I urge parents of high school juniors and seniors not to see their kids as SAT and ACT scores and G.P.A.'s, but as creative, unpredictable, unprogrammable teenagers with their own gifts.
Like my son, Benjie.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS W. HO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HOMEWORK (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); WRITERS (76%); PARENTING (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); BASKETBALL (71%); APPROVALS (68%); GENOMICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



649 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: An Area Growing in a Family Way

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS have been rediscovering a small neighborhood in Brooklyn called the Columbia Street Waterfront District -- and so have the real estate developers.
The opening of Pier 6 in Brooklyn Bridge Park last spring, and the recent completion of a bicycle and pedestrian pathway along Columbia Street, part of the Brooklyn Waterfront Greenway that will link north and south Brooklyn, have drawn visitors to the waterfront.
There, home buyers and renters will find a mix of row houses, urban renewal buildings, and a growing stock of new and recently developed condominiums. 
A slice of about two dozen square blocks, cut off from the rest of the borough by the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel, the Columbia waterfront has been seen as an up-and-coming neighborhood. But development has come in fits and starts because of its location, the forbidding warehouses and piers that block harbor access, and a lack of subway lines.
''This particular location -- we've liked it since Day 1,'' said Louis V. Greco, the general manager of the development company SDS, which bought two parcels in the neighborhood in 2008. ''That's because of the views of Lower Manhattan, obviously, and there's just so much going on down there now.''
In late September, SDS began marketing a development with 37 condominiums on one of those parcels, called 100 Congress. Because of the recession's pressure, the developer had planned to sell the other parcel, at the corner of Columbia and Warren Streets, but recently decided not to.
''There's a market out there again,'' he said. The second development will have only 12 apartments, and all but one will be three-bedrooms. Mr. Greco said the interest thus far in 100 Congress, where nearly half the units are three-bedrooms, has been from families. Other real estate agents in the Columbia waterfront area said they too had noticed its growing appeal to young families. Almost the entire neighborhood falls into the zones for Public Schools 29 and 58, which are both highly regarded. There are also organizations that offer children's programs, along with a series of small parks and playgrounds, including the popular one at Pier 6, which has 1.6 acres of play areas and a ''water lab.''
''When my family first moved to the area in 2005, there was a big kind of hipster element to it,'' said Tina Fallon, an agent with the brokerage Realty Collective, whose office is on Columbia Street. ''What we're seeing now is an increasing number of people who are interested in what are called family-size apartments.''
One Brooklyn Bridge Park, a 449-unit condominium complex just north of the district, has also helped raise the profile of the area, particularly by helping to subsidize park construction.
Frank Galeano, a local real estate broker, built a small development with three apartments at 82 Union Street a year ago and units rented quickly, he said. ''The market is back quite a bit,'' Mr. Galeano said, estimating that a two-bedroom apartment rents on average for about $2,200 a month. ''It's not quite the level it was before the recession, but we're seeing a lot of activity.''
Along with 100 Congress, several other projects are coming to fruition. Columbia Commons, at 110 Warren Street, is the largest, with 42 condos, and in the beginning of October, after four months on the market, about half its units were under contract, according to Halstead Property Development Marketing, which is handling the listing. Prices for the remaining apartments ranged from $420,000 to $685,000 for one- and two-bedrooms; the remaining three-bedroom is listed for $935,000.
One of the most prolific Columbia waterfront developers, Marshall Sohne, pulled his plans for a 10-story tower at 211-213 Columbia Street and instead plans to build eight experimental green condominiums and four mews houses. While he was prepared to finance the project himself, he said, bankers showed unexpected faith in the market. ''We're going to get bank financing, which I'm surprised at,'' Mr. Sohne said.
Another developer, Barrett Design and Development, is converting a former macaroni factory at 25 Carroll Street into 17 condominiums, and principals are confident enough in the market to sell from plans, with only one model unit, said Lindsay Barton Barrett, a broker at the Corcoran Group.
Ms. Barrett said that Barrett Design, founded by her husband, Alex, has completed five other developments, all of them in the Carroll Gardens neighborhood from which the Columbia waterfront was sliced. Since June 2009, ''the market's been very strong'' in Carroll Gardens, Ms. Barrett said. ''It just largely has been a function of there being very little supply.''
Ms. Barrett said that she hoped market strength would extend to the Columbia waterfront, where prices historically have been lower -- in recent years, about 20 percent -- and that 25 Carroll Street would be priced accordingly.
Mr. Greco says price difference is minimized when a development is on a street like Congress that crosses over the expressway. At 100 Congress, SDS did ultimately decide to develop less-expensive three-bedroom apartments than first envisioned in 2008, but prices are still comparable to similar properties in Cobble Hill, Mr. Greco said.
One-bedrooms range from $350,000 to $390,000; two-bedrooms, $620,000 to $750,000; the range for three-bedrooms is $825,000 to $925,000; and there is one penthouse for $1.5 million, he said.
Ms. Fallon says one of the biggest changes she's noticed is that she no longer has to sell the neighborhood to buyers as a low-cost alternative to Carroll Gardens and Cobble Hill.
''We're seeing people in our real estate work who say, 'I want to be on this side of the B.Q.E.,' '' Ms. Fallon said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW MATURITY: Pier 6 at Brooklyn Bridge Park, right, and condos like Columbia Commons are drawing people to the Columbia Street Waterfront District. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FAMILY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); RECESSION (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); TEST LABORATORIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



650 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2851 words

HEADLINE: Lost in Ireland

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS. 
MATT GROSS, the former Frugal Traveler, writes the ''Getting Lost'' series for the Travel section. This is his second installment.

 BODY:
THE place was called Cronin's Yard, and it was somewhere around here -- it had to be. Off to my right, past the barbed-wire fences that bordered intense green pastures, rose the first russet foothills of Macgillycuddy's Reeks, the highest mountain peaks in Ireland, swathed in a fog punctured in rare spots by the pale morning sun. In there -- somewhere -- was the Yard, supposedly the best starting point for hikers in the Reeks, and now, after four days of driving southwest from Dublin to County Kerry without a map, GPS or, really, any sense of Irish geography, I was so close. All I had to do was find it.
I had plenty of time to do so. Although I'd just wasted close to an hour on a needless, if gorgeous, detour down a long, swerving single-lane road to Carragh Lake -- thanks for the directions, supermarket clerks -- it was not yet even 10 o'clock. And as I drove the rented Fiat back on the tight rural routes, I relaxed enough to enjoy the scenery and the delightfully odd village names (Oulagh, Ownagarry, Kilgobnet) without thinking that I might, you know, somehow get lost. 
Except that that was why I was searching for the Reeks -- to get lost, sort of. In Dublin a few days before, a bookseller had told me a legend: During World War II, a couple of American soldiers had gone missing in the Reeks when fog engulfed them and they were never heard from again ... As I later learned, his story was inaccurate (actually, a Portugal-bound military plane went off course and hit the Reeks), but still, it captured my imagination. I saw myself wandering the same foggy hills, surrounded by the ghosts of those before me -- but outfitted, of course, with warm clothes, food, water, headlamp and sleeping bag. I had to go. After all, this really was why I'd come to Ireland in the first place: to lose myself, over the course of a week, in a country I knew nothing about.
Or rather, to lose myself in a country so familiar to me (and, I'd argue, to anyone who grew up in the United States) that its reputation had eclipsed its reality. From St. Patrick's Day parades to the peace process, from Guinness fetishism to the potato famine, from ''Dubliners'' to ''The Commitments'' to ''Riverdance,'' Irish history and culture have been such a steady backdrop that I never felt the need to think about Ireland as an actual place. (Or places. ''Ireland'' is, of course, both Northern Ireland, part of the United Kingdom, and the independent Republic of Ireland.) Instead, Ireland seemed like a wholly imaginary source of fantastic good times, tinged with poignant historical misery and populated by characters so vibrant and strange that within minutes of meeting them (and I was 100 percent sure I'd meet them) I'd get sucked into their Wildean dramas.
At first, as I pulled out of the Enterprise parking lot in Dublin, and onto what felt to me like the wrong side of the road, my heart raced with every careful shifting of gears, and I fretted about where I was in my lane. Was I drifting? Or overcompensating? Often, my right hand would flutter in midair before I remembered the gearshift was on the other side. And when, just half an hour outside Dublin, I found myself hurtling down one-and-a-half-lane roads, tension gripped my upper body as I negotiated my way around oncoming cars.
The rewards for such anxiety (and the subsequent neck aches) were immediate and unending. The Irish countryside was remarkable, a constant flow of the expected green hills and greener valleys, and once I got comfortable with the Fiat's flip-flopped controls, I began to enjoy the way the roads snaked tight around corners, through virtual tunnels of trees and bushes. When I'd reach the top of a hill to find a truck barreling my way, I could take a certain pride in the swiftness with which I'd stomp the brakes and find a smidgen of shoulder to pull onto. Then I'd fumble around for the gearshift with the wrong hand.
From glen to glen I drove, and down (and up) the mountainsides, using the sun to keep myself on a rough south-southwest course toward County Kerry and finding new spectacles that diverged from the usual verdant-Ireland cliches. After unexpectedly visiting the Powerscourt Waterfall -- about as classic an Irish image as you could imagine, all rocks and woods and fern-furred fields and white rushing streams -- I wound up speeding along a high plateau runneled with rows of dense bushes in shades of yellow and purple: as alien a landscape as I could've imagined, especially under a steely sky backlit by a feeble sun. Eventually, I had to pull over and gawk. And then I drove on, the road a growing addiction.
It was a road that led me far from the familiar. Though signs were in English (and often Irish), it was a language I almost didn't recognize: In the span of 20 minutes one day, I drove through Ballyorney, Ballybawn, Ballyreagh, Ballyross, Ballycoyle and Ballylerane. I crossed the River Gargle (actually Dargle, I learned later) and the River Suck. I saw signs for Cloon, Tubber, Inch, Finuge, Sneem.
OFTEN I would just speak these names aloud in the car, rolling their Seussian sounds on my tongue -- I was alone for hours at a time, after all. Sometimes a name would intrigue me enough to pursue it. In County Cork, a sign told me Ballygriffin was to the left; I followed it.
The road led up and up, a single lane that emerged from a tree tunnel onto rockier, wind-swept slopes. Grass grew in the middle of the road, and this green mohawk thickened as I climbed higher. There were houses here, and farms, but as a place, Ballygriffin felt vague. Finally, at the top, the road dead-ended at a house, and when I paused in the driveway to turn around, the owner came out. He was of retirement age, with white hair and thick hands. His name, he said, was O'Sullivan, and his family had lived here for generations.
Did he mind the isolation?
''Oh, we don't care,'' he said. ''It's only four miles to the village.''
A short distance, to be sure, but at the time it felt like a light year. Perhaps that was because, after three days alone in the car, I was acutely aware of my own isolation. Those Wildean characters were nowhere to be found; in fact, given the desolation of many rural villages, it was sometimes hard to find human beings at all, let alone a pub or cafe where I could meet them.
My usual techniques for making friends, honed over scores of globe-trotting trips, weren't working: I'd stop in a pub for lunch and humbly, quietly, off-handedly explain my mission (''I'm driving around Ireland with no map, trying to get lost''), hoping the bartender would respond, or that I'd be overheard by someone who'd know just where I needed to go and might even want to accompany me. I carried myself in an open manner. I dressed not like a tourist, but like my regular New York self, which I hoped would peg me less as an outsider than as an unusual outsider, an object of curiosity. I wasn't expecting a hero's welcome, just a little interest.
And then I'd walk into somewhere like the Blackwater Tavern, along the back roads of Kerry, just as the all-Ireland football finals between Cork and Down were beginning. Had I been among the roomful of locals, I would've wanted to know more about this odd foreigner watching the televised match with such intensity. Instead, I was the odd foreigner no one spoke to.
The worst was the night in Enniscorthy, a pretty, hilly town on the banks of the River Slaney, where I spotted on the street a bearded guy wearing a trendy straw hat. An Irish hipster! When he walked into Stamp's pub, I followed, and found the high-ceilinged, elegant room full of people like him -- which is to say, people very much like me. Yet, as I drank yet another rapturously smooth Guinness, it seemed impossible to chat up anyone, so tightly knit were these groups of cool friends. I felt lonely, and desperate, and I knew everyone could sense it.
At first, my response was to choose even deeper solitude. At Glendalough, a sixth-century monastic settlement in an isolated valley, I wandered among the graves and ruins with hundreds of other tourists, then followed a path away and uphill. Within 30 minutes, I was marching up a dry streambed, above the trees, on a ridge matted with magenta shrubs and dotted by boulders.
NEAR the crest, I sat down to a lunch of bread, Irish Cheddar and Spanish chorizo, and looked out at the valley. Apart from a few logging roads that threaded through the trees, there were no signs humans had been here -- no cellphone towers, no hikers' refuges. The world was as it might have been 1,500 years ago, when St. Kevin founded the monastery below, and I wondered how long I could stay right where I was.
Then it began to rain.
Often, I wondered whether I'd been misled about Ireland. This was, I'd gleaned from books and movies, a nation of loquacious gabbers, silver-tongued schmoozers, ostentatiously oratorical pub-dwellers, but were they as mythical -- and dismissibly stereotypical -- as leprechauns? Or was their replacement by taciturn introverts telling me something else? The FM radio D.J.'s -- my most constant companions -- spoke almost every day about the implosion of the Irish economy, the lack of faith in government and the increasing departure of Irish people for other lands. I seemed to have driven into a country mired in depression both financial and emotional: Beckett's world, not Joyce's. Even the D.J.'s pope jokes fell flat.
But here's something I always forget about travel loneliness, which has struck me everywhere from Kentucky to Kyoto: When you finally accept that you are on your own, when making friends no longer matters and when you turn your attention to other subjects, it vanishes. One night in Bantry, a lovely seaside town not far from the Cork-Kerry county line, I popped into the Schooner, a pub, solely because I'd spotted a poster advertising a local band called the Calvinists -- a fantastic name, especially in Catholic Ireland. And indeed, the Calvinists (who chose the name because of John Calvin's total opposition to music) were awesome: straight-up rock with a country accent, courtesy of the banjoist Taidhg Burke, and the range to cover both Johnny Cash and Gorillaz, thanks to Noel Maguire's effortless voice.
''They're the next U2!'' shouted the older gent next to me, Cornelius ''Corney with an 'e' '' Kelly (''like Ned Kelly!''). And I believed him; the whole room hummed with enthusiasm and pride. I was part of something. Maybe this was a moment that, years from now, I'd remember as a big one. Or maybe it was just the three (or four) pints of Murphy's stout in my system.
Likewise, when I followed my stomach to Galway, the west coast city whose oysters I'd decided I needed to sample, I found more than just delicious, freshly shucked mollusks. At Martine's, an intimate restaurant and wine bar in an otherwise touristy quarter, my interest in the local bivalves (sweet and slightly cucumber-ish) caught the attention first of Martine herself, which led to a chat at the bar with Eugene, a silver-haired patron in chic eyeglasses, and Ray, a lobsterman from the rugged Aran Islands whose droopy mustache made him look like the fashion photographer Terry Richardson.
Topics for the evening: What did I think of the ''ground zero mosque''? Should the actor Gabriel Byrne be the next Irish president? Could a village exist without a pub?
As with all great barroom chats, the answers didn't matter, only our ability to prolong the discussion with quips (''It's not a village,'' Ray said. ''It's a hamlet!'') and additional rounds of drinks. That warm feeling inside wasn't just from the Murphy's, the Jameson's, the red wine and the Muscat; by not trying to find what I'd been looking for, I'd found it. (Quick! Someone tell Bono!) And, what's more, I'd suffered for it, persevering in the face of loneliness and the harsh Irish countryside.
Which brings me back to my quest for Cronin's Yard and Macgillycuddy's Reeks: As that morning wore on, the scenery became, if this is possible, even more typically Kerryish. Craggy hills rose up, the mists descended, and cars vanished from the highways. In their place were sheep, their white wool blotched with blue or red ink to mark them as someone's property. The landscape felt rough and wild, but the Reeks -- Kerry's roughest and wildest -- eluded me still.
By now I was an ace at driving on the left. My neck muscles had relaxed. I downshifted without thinking. I passed slower vehicles on country lanes. But for all my newly acquired skill, Cronin's Yard would not appear. I snaked up switchbacks and through mountain passes, and paused to stare down sheep in the middle of the road, and I kept telling myself no, I wasn't lost, of course not. If necessary, I could retrace my steps, but the idea of driving the same route twice was unconscionable. (Actually, I had to once, when I followed a road several miles to a picturesque dead end -- a deep valley where cattle grazed under a steep granite slope.) Then, while turning around in reverse, I almost drove off the single-lane road. Almost. Nothing like an adrenaline rush to make backtracking fun!
In the afternoon, the sun emerged to cast an icy sheen over the hills. Still no Yard, no Reeks, no end in sight. But the hum of the Fiat's engine, the flow of rubber on asphalt, the smell of rain and wet, distant wool -- these were enough to keep me going, on and on and on, all night if necessary. Peace filled me. Maybe I was just grazing the surface of Ireland, failing to penetrate to its core, but when the surface is as raw and gorgeous as it is in Kerry, and when you never know when you'll stumble on a Martine's or the Calvinists, and when, despite everything that's happened before, good and bad, you trust the road to take you where it will, sometimes the surface suffices.
IF YOU GO
GETTING AROUND
Rental cars in Dublin are highly affordable. Standard transmission vehicles start well under 20 euros a day (about $27 at $1.36 to the euro) at international chains like Thrifty and Enterprise. But if you can only drive automatic, expect to pay about twice as much.
Once you're accustomed to driving on the left, you'll find roads in the Republic of Ireland quite good, thanks to ambitious infrastructure investment begun in the Celtic Tiger years. New highways, like Dublin M50 beltway, are opening regularly, and even the most seemingly far-flung single-lane roads are well paved.
WHERE TO SLEEP
Bed-and-breakfasts dot the Irish countryside and cost little (30 euros a night and up), but quality can vary. Don't expect much more than a reasonably clean room, usually with en suite bath, in someone's house. The Old Bridge Bed and Breakfast (Slaney Place, Enniscorthy; 353-53-923-4222; oldbridgehouse.net) in county Wexford was one great exception, a well-situated building crammed with fascinating historic bric-a-brac, including an antique wall map of Ireland that I tried desperately not to study. And in Galway, a boutique hotel called The House (Merchants Road; 353-91-538-900; thehousehotel.ie) was a justifiable upgrade, and, at 109 euros a night, not even that much of a splurge.
WHERE TO EAT
The best I can say of Irish pub food is that it's filling. Menus may be beautifully written, but don't let evocative descriptions of cattle breeds and root vegetables trick you into ordering a flavorless Irish stew. (I was swayed, twice, to my lingering regret.) Even at Martine's (21 Quay Street, Galway; 353-91-565-662; winebar.ie), which I loved (waitresses and oysters pictured), I ate only oysters and French fries, though I was sorely tempted by the pork belly. A few places impressed me: The mussels at the Snug, in Bantry (The Quay; 353-27-50057), were nice, as was the seafood chowder at Johnnie Fox's, in Glencullen (353-1-295-5647; jfp.ie), and the Kerry lamb burger at the Smoke House in Killarney (8 High Street; 353-64-662-0801; thesmokehouse.ie). My favorite meals, however, were assembled from fresh breads, fruit and local cheeses, which were unaccountably hard to find, except at Sheridans, in Galway (14-16 Churchyard Street; 353-91-564-829; sheridanscheesemongers.com).
WHAT TO DO DURING THE DAY
The Powerscourt Waterfall, in County Wicklow (Enniskerry; 353-1-204-6000; powerscourt.ie), was worth a half-hour visit, as was Molly Gallivan's, a restored rural homestead and farm in County Kerry (N71, Glengarriff Road, Kenmare; 353-64-664-0714; mollygallivans.com). With all those hours in the car, I took every chance I could to go hiking at places like Glendalough (353-404-45600; glendalough.ie) and Guagan Barra, a forest with well-marked paths. And whenever I saw woolen products advertised, I stopped to see what was on offer. Intricately knit sweaters from the Aran Islands are sold throughout Ireland, but my favorites were made by a company called Lee Valley, in County Cork.
WHAT TO DO AT NIGHT
Come nightfall, you're probably bound for a pub. In Bantry, I definitely recommend going to the Schooner (Barrack Street; 353-27-52115), particularly if the Calvinists are playing, and in Enniscorthy's Market Square, Stamp's is beautiful and trendy, but hardly pretentious.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Somewhere in County Kerry. If the author knew exactly where, he wouldn't be lost, would he? (TR1)
RIGHT: The Gap of Dunloe is near Macgillycuddy's Reeks, which the author never found. LEFT, TOP TO BOTTOM: It's easy, just follow the sign
Killarney, County Kerry
atop a cliff in Kilkee, County Clare. (TR6)
 ABOVE LEFT: The Calvinists, a local group, at the Schooner pub, in Bantry. ABOVE Bantry Bay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT GROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR7) MAPS (TR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); HISTORY (78%); FAMINE (77%); HIKING (72%); ARMED FORCES (64%); WORLD WAR II (64%); BOOKSTORES (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



651 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A Passenger's Airport Wish List

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
AIRLINES have taken a lot of heat over bad customer service, but as I was waiting for a flight at La Guardia Airport this summer, I realized that the stress of flying sometimes starts at the terminal curb.
It took more than half an hour to get through security, and once I got to the overcrowded gate -- after a stop in a less-than-clean bathroom -- the cacophony of competing announcements, a blaring television and a passenger's music player blasting without headphones was deafening, especially at 9 a.m.
But when I landed at Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, the highest-ranking large airport in this year's J. D. Power & Associates North America customer satisfaction survey, it was as though I had arrived in another country. The main terminal, finished in 2002, is spacious and full of light, with plenty of comfortable seats at each gate and a wide choice of restaurants.
Stuart Greif, vice president of the global travel practice at J. D. Power, said the contrast between the two airports illustrates the widening spread between the best and worst domestic airports. That's partly because airports like La Guardia are showing their age, but it also indicates that some airports are taking the time and expense to focus on passengers' needs. 
''It's about getting the basics right,'' said Mr. Greif, who mentioned adequate seating, speedy baggage claim, clear signs and smooth traffic flow as some things airports can do to improve the passenger experience. Besides ''Turn down the volume!'' here are a few suggestions (post your own at nytimes.com/travel if you're inspired to chime in).
Don't Keep Us in the Dark
One thing that mystifies me is why airports and airlines don't work together to provide information on ticket confirmations or check-in reminders about services available at airports. Why not tell passengers headed to, say, Minneapolis, that there's a new Surdyk's wine bar at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, or Indianapolis-bound travelers that there is free Wi-Fi at the airport there? (Check out wififreespot.com/airport.html for a directory of airports that offer free Internet access, organized by state.)
Right now, passengers have to seek out an airport's Web site to find these highlights, which is worth doing, even just to view terminal maps or get updates about construction that might affect traffic in the area. Flightstats.com lets you look up an airport to see information about flight delays, which is often more accurate than the data airlines share.
It goes without saying that passengers would appreciate more timely flight updates throughout the airport, but Mr. Greif had another good suggestion: posting estimates in baggage claim areas about how long it will take before each flight's luggage appears.
''When you set expectations and you explain reasons, satisfaction tends to improve,'' he said. Yet travelers tend to live in the opposite of our TMI world: we get too little information.
Spruce Up the Bathrooms!
One of my pet peeves is the bathroom automation trend, which would be fine if the sensors actually worked when you waved your hands wildly to get a trickle of water or a squirt of soap -- but they often don't. As Jerry Seinfeld joked in a monologue I found on YouTube: ''What is the story on the sinks in airport bathrooms, that they will not give us a twist-it-on, twist-it-off human-style faucet? Is that too risky for the general population?''
Curtis Fentress, an architect who has designed many of the world's top-rated airports, shared an anecdote about the purse of a government official falling into the sink and activating the faucet during the 1995 opening celebration for Denver International Airport, which he designed. He said that automation technology is improving, adding that his company -- which recently designed the new terminal at Raleigh-Durham International Airport -- spends a lot of time thinking about bathroom usability, lobbying for bigger stalls that can accommodate luggage, as well as shelves in the stalls and near the sinks.
''The last thing you want to do when you go in a public bathroom is to set your purse or briefcase down while you wash your hands because the floor often has water all over it,'' he said, mentioning the placement of paper towel dispensers and trash receptacles as other details that affect bathroom cleanliness. (In that respect, passengers are partly to blame for the sorry state of airport restrooms these days. No wonder they're taking the paper towels away.)
Let Us Rest
For the new Terminal B at San Jose International Airport, Mr. Fentress said his company designed chairs with electrical outlets, so passengers don't have to jockey for scarce outlets along the walls to charge a laptop or a phone.
But Foy Allen Edelman, a cookbook author from Raleigh, N.C., had another suggestion: how about installing reclining chairs that have a compartment underneath where you can stash a small carry-on bag?
''If you could go to a place that's quiet and where you could lock up your valuables and rest, I would pay for that,'' she said.
While airline lounges generally offer day passes to nonmembers for around $50, they usually close at night, and it does seem that a reasonably priced place to nap is something many travelers would pay for. If you do get stuck, SleepingInAirports.net offers useful tips on where to snooze, and shows photos of free reclining chairs at airports in places like Singapore and Seoul that put United States airport seating to shame.
Make It Local
Another common complaint is that many airports feel generic, full of chain restaurants and retail outlets, rather than local establishments selling or serving regional specialties.
''It's as though they're all up in the air attached to each other,'' Ms. Edelman said. ''They're disconnected from the community.''
Some airports are making more of an effort to introduce local cuisine, like San Francisco International Airport, which has outposts of local favorites including Just Desserts, Boudin Bakery and Firewood Cafe. But it takes some research to find information on the best places to eat, which is worth doing before you land. Yelp and AirlineQuality.com both offer consumer reviews of airports that often include restaurant picks, and the business travel writer Joe Brancatelli recently offered a round-up of the best airport dining options in the United States on Portfolio.com that includes tips on where to find local fare.
Mr. Fentress mentioned that Vancouver International Airport has what strikes me as a brilliant idea: a bar in the baggage claim area, which might entice more friends and family to agree to the airport pick-up chore.
''You can sit there and have a beverage and wait for your friend,'' he said. ''Why that doesn't catch on more in the U.S., I don't know.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROSS MACDONALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (89%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (84%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); RANKINGS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (60%)

COMPANY: MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (63%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



652 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Porsche Tailors Its Hybrids to the Task

BYLINE: By NORMAN MAYERSOHN

 BODY:
SORTING through the choices among electric and hybrid drive systems to pick the type best matched to one's driving needs can be a formidable task for new-car buyers -- and by all indications, it's only going to get more complicated.
A number of alternatives to the parallel hybrid layout used by cars like the Toyota Prius -- something of a de facto standard for blending the power of a gasoline engine with the boost from electric motors -- have popped up from competing carmakers in recent weeks. 
General Motors peeled back the cloak over the Chevrolet Volt to reveal a multilayered arrangement of planetary gears and clutch packs. Hyundai unwrapped the workings of its Sonata Hybrid, disclosing an electric motor that nestles in the slim space between the gas engine and automatic transmission.
But it is Porsche, a company whose core strengths would seem to lie anywhere but in the realm of tree-huggers, trumping all with the unveiling of three specialized hybrid systems engineered for very different applications: a sport utility, a racecar and a supercar.
The 2011 Cayenne S Hybrid is the road-going design, developed by Porsche and Volkswagen. Capable of being driven using only the electric motor -- up to nearly 40 miles per hour without the gas V-6 running -- this Cayenne model earns the right to be classified as a full hybrid.
That electric motor produces 47 horsepower. It is sandwiched between the engine and transmission, a design similar to that used by Honda in models like the Insight and CR-Z. Those Hondas, however, do not have the capability to drive on electricity alone.
The Cayenne's wheels can also be powered by its 333-horsepower supercharged V-6 -- or the gas engine and electric motor can pair up to give the hefty S.U.V. a 380-horsepower shove.
Arriving in dealerships next month, the Cayenne S Hybrid will have an E.P.A. fuel economy rating of 21 m.p.g in town and 25 on the highway. That is a noteworthy improvement over the base-level Cayenne, powered by a 300-horsepower V-6, that tops out at 16 city and 23 highway.
While a hybrid of any sort might seem out of character for Porsche, the company notes that Ferdinand Porsche, father of the man who founded the sports car company, developed a working hybrid in 1900. But the hybrids Porsche is showing off this year are totally modern. And its engineers are clearly thinking outside the battery.
Proof lies in a pure racecar called the GT3 R Hybrid, which has competed in Europe and the United States and will run in the Intercontinental Le Mans Cup at the Zhuhai International Circuit in China next month.
This racing hybrid builds on the proven 911 platform, using a 480-horsepower opposed 6 at the rear and a pair of 81-horsepower electric motors attached to the front wheels.
The GT3 R's big wrinkle is in its method of energy storage: rather than adding a heavy battery, the engineers installed a flywheel ''accumulator'' to recover kinetic energy that would otherwise be wasted as heat under braking.
The flywheel, which spins up to 40,000 r.p.m., is mounted in the cockpit, next to the driver. Each time the driver uses the brakes, the motors on the front axle act as generators, sending power to the spin up the flywheel, which has temporarily switched into motor mode. When the driver needs an extra bit of acceleration to squirt past a competitor, all the processes reverse: the flywheel acts as a generator, directing power to the motors on the front axle.
Porsche's third hybrid design is used in the 918 Spyder supercar, introduced as a concept at the Geneva auto show earlier this year.
Electric motors are mounted at the front and rear of the car, adding some 218 horsepower to the output of the car's 500-horse V-8. When the 918 is on a road where its 198-m.p.h. top speed cannot be used, it will drive about 15 miles on electricity alone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BATTERY-FREE: Porsche's GT3 R Hybrid, which stores energy in a flywheel generator, will race in China next month.
 HIGH SPEED TURN: A flywheel housed next to the driver spins at 40,000 r.p.m. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SPORTS CARS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%)

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (52%) CHINA (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



653 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Old Habits

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS. 
Sam Tanenhaus is the editor of the Book Review. His book ''The Death of Conservatism'' was published in paperback this month.

 BODY:
Two years after an election that seemed to portend a new era of comity, American politics has resumed what now appears to be its permanent condition of polarization, quite possibly worsened by widening rifts within the two major parties.
Jonathan Alter, in his cover essay this week on liberalism, notes that the Democratic Party is split between purists and pragmatists; Christopher Caldwell, assessing the state of conservatism, warns that the Republican Party, should it gain control of Congress, will be accountable to angry insurgents aligned with the Tea Party movement.
If Alter and Caldwell are right, and the books they discuss suggest they are, then Democrats and Republicans seem destined to move even farther apart than they are now. How, then, will they forge the compromises that are the foundation of effective governance?
The answer is: They may not need to. For most of the past century, consensus in American politics has been more phantom than fact, especially when it comes to staking out ideological ground. 
Even in the cold war era, a peak period of bipartisan cooperation, liberals and conservatives clashed over first principles, and the most respected spokesmen in either party were not afraid to say so.
Consider an important midcentury manifesto, ''A Democrat Looks at His Party'' (1955). Its author, Dean Acheson, had left government after the 1952 election, but he remained a formidable presence -- perhaps the greatest of all modern secretaries of state. Yet his book, although written in courtly prose, with learned references to Renaissance history and choice aphorisms from Oliver Wendell Holmes, was an act of ideological revivalism, steeped in the glories of the New Deal.
The Democrats' triumphs, Acheson argued, originated in their discovery that the federal government, in particular the executive branch, should be ''an instrument to accomplish what needs to be done, even if this cuts across cherished doctrines,'' including those stated or implied in the Constitution.
In fact, Acheson explained, the history of the Democratic Party, dating as far back as Grover Cleveland's presidency, ''is the history of America's unwritten constitution, of the powers of the federal government, of the nature and authority of the presidential office and its relation to the legislative and judicial powers.'' It climaxed in the rush of programs and agencies Democrats devised to meet the crisis of the Great Depression. These innovations required ''knowledge, perceptiveness, imagination -- in other words, brains,'' and it was the Democratic Party that''attracts intellectuals and puts them to work.''
Republicans, meanwhile, clung to an outmoded ideal of a weak federal government: ''In the name of checking . . . 'executive aggrandizements,' the party historically would subordinate the Executive to the Congress, and the national voice to a babel of local voices,'' Acheson wrote.
The unwritten constitution? The babel of local voices? It's hard to imagine the high-profile Democrat today who would so openly acknowledge these presumptions of modern liberalism.
Republicans in the 1950s were no less direct. Take, for instance, the ideas expressed by Arthur Larson, the under secretary of labor to President Eisenhower, in his book ''A Republican Looks at His Party,'' published in 1956. Responding to Acheson, Larson accused him of a ''thinly veiled contempt for state and municipal government,'' formed under ''the influence of a school of European political theory'' -- specifically, the socialist theory of Harold Laski. Larson stated his party's position in language as strident as Newt Gingrich's. ''Let us put it perfectly bluntly: the typical American is inherently a states'-righter by inclination and sentiment.'' That same American had ''an instinctive sense that . . . excessive centralization means the threat of ultimate loss of personal liberties, and that our constitutional division of powers between the central government, the state governments and the people is right and must be preserved at all costs.'' The Democrats' ideal of the federal leviathan, Larson warned, would place the nation on the road to ''totalitarian dictatorship.''
Acheson and Larson were by no means extremists. Each stood at or near the political center. Acheson had been the architect of the cold war containment policy that included the use of loyalty oaths, enacted under Truman, to expunge suspected Communists from the government payroll, though in his manifesto he regretted this ''grave mistake.''
Larson, a self-described ''New Republican,'' proudly pointed to the Eisenhower administration's expansion of New Deal programs -- unemployment insurance, for one -- and advocated a ''strong, confident center-of-the-road American consensus,'' a view repudiated by the conservative wing of his own party.
The dominant political figure in the 1950s was Eisenhower, a popular president twice elected with sweeping majorities. He disdained ideological debate but it swirled all around him, at times almost paralyzing his administration. For two years, he was locked in battle with his party's right wing, most conspicuously with a group of legislators led by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the ringmaster of loyalty investigations that reached deep into the executive branch. Other Republicans, exploiting wafer-thin majorities in Congress, gave less attention to major appropriations bills than to drafting constitutional amendments that might confound the most devout Tea Partier. In his 1956 book ''Affairs of State: The Eisenhower Years,'' Richard Rovere, The New Yorker's Washington correspondent, counted no fewer than 107 amendments that had been submitted to Senate committees as of June 1954. They included one empowering state governors to fill ''vacancies'' in the House of Representatives should Washington suffer a nuclear attack, another to prevent ''interference with or limitation upon the power of any state to regulate health, morals, education, marriage, and good order in the state,'' and a third that would have inserted the following words in the Constitution: ''This nation devoutly recognizes the authority and law of Jesus Christ, Savior and Ruler of Nations through whom are bestowed the blessings of Almighty God.''
At one point, Eisenhower, frustrated that the nation's serious business was being ignored, considered quitting the Republican Party and starting a new party of his own.
The problem was temporarily solved by the 1954 election. It was a defeat for Congressional Republicans, but not for Eisenhower since, as Rovere reported, the election had ''removed several persons whom the president found offensive and had weakened the authority of quite a few others,'' most of them Republicans.
Democrats, all the while, were equally fissured, as the party nearly self-destructed over civil rights, the great social issue of the 1950s (though neither Acheson nor Larson had much to say about it). The fiercest proponents of the states' rights ideology championed by Larson were not Republicans, but Southern Democrats. Some had already broken with the party, in 1948, when Strom Thurmond, then the governor of South Carolina, headed a third-party, states rights' ticket, the Dixiecrats, which captured four states in the general election, the first step in the Democratic Party's eventual loss of ''the Solid South.''
Today, much of this history has been forgotten, and the Eisenhower years are remembered instead as an oasis of responsible governance and nonideological, bipartisan calm.
It is too soon to say the same about the politics of the present moment. But it is also too soon to say where we are headed or even to guess how we might get there.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); WRITERS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



654 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: One Mess That Can't Be Papered Over

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LAWYERS representing delinquent homeowners have been shouting for years about documentation problems in residential mortgages. Now that their complaints have gained traction with investors, attorneys general and some state court officials, the question of consequences looms large.
Is the banks' sloppy paperwork a matter of simple technicalities that are relatively easy to cure, as the banks contend? Or are there more far-reaching consequences for banks and the institutions that bought mortgage-backed securities during the mania?
Oddly enough, the answer to both questions may be yes.
According to real estate lawyers, most banks that have gotten into trouble because they didn't produce proper proof of ownership in foreclosure proceedings can probably cure these deficiencies. But doing so will be costly and time-consuming, requiring banks to comb through every mortgage assignment and secure proper signatures at each step of the way -- and it surely will take much longer than a few weeks, as banks have contended. 
Once this has been done appropriately (not by robo-signers, mind you) the missing links in the banks' chain of ownership can be considered complete and individual foreclosures can proceed legally.
None of this will be easy, however. And it will be especially challenging when one or more of the parties in the chain has gone bankrupt or been acquired, as is the case with so many participants in the mortgage business.
Still, addressing all of these lapses is possible, according to Joshua Stein, a real estate lawyer in New York. ''If there are missing links in your chain of title, you go back to your transferor and get the documents you need,'' he said in an interview last week. ''If the transferor doesn't exist any more, there are ways to deal with it, though it's not necessarily easy or cheap. Ultimately, you can go to the judge in the foreclosure action and say: 'I think I bought this loan but there is one thing missing. Look at the evidence -- you should overlook this gap because I am the rightful owner.' ''
Such an unwieldy process will make it more expensive for banks to overhaul their loan servicing operations to address myriad concerns from judges and regulators, but analysts say it can be done.
ON the other hand, resolving paperwork woes in the world of mortgage-backed securities may be trickier. Experts say that any parties involved in the creation, sale and oversight of the trusts holding the securities may be held responsible for any failings -- and if the rules weren't followed, investors may be able to sue the sponsors to recover their original investments.
Mind you, the market for mortgage-backed securities is huge -- some $1.4 trillion of private-label residential mortgage securities were outstanding at the end of June, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
Certainly no one believes that all of these securities have documentation flaws. But if even a small fraction do, that would still amount to a lot of cabbage.
Big investors are already rattling the cage on the issue of inadequate loan documentation. Last week, investors in mortgage securities issued by Countrywide, including the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, sent a letter to Bank of America (which took over Countrywide in 2008) demanding that the bank buy back billions of dollars worth of mortgages that were bundled into the securities. The investors contend that the bank did not sufficiently vet documents relating to loans in these pools.
The letter stated, for example, that Bank of America failed to demand that entities selling loans into the pool ''cure deficiencies in mortgage records when deficient loan files and lien records are discovered.'' Bank of America has rejected the investors' argument and said that it would fight their demand to buy back loans.
Mortgage securities, like other instruments that have generated large losses for investors during the crisis, have extremely complex structures. Technically known as Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits, or Remics, these instruments provide investors with favorable tax treatment on the income generated by the loans.
When investors -- like the New York Fed -- contend that strict rules governing these structures aren't met, they can try to force a company like Bank of America to buy them back.
Which brings us back to the sloppy paperwork that lawyers for delinquent borrowers have uncovered: some of the dubious documentation may undermine the security into which the loans were bundled.
For example, the common practice of transferring a promissory note underlying a property to a trust without identifying it, known as an assignment in blank, may run afoul of rules governing the structure of the security.
''The danger here is that the note would not be considered a qualified mortgage,'' said Robert Willens, an authority on tax law, ''an obligation which is principally secured by an interest in real property and which is transferred to the Remic on the start-up day.'' If, within three months, substantially all the assets of the entity do not consist of qualified mortgages and permitted investments, ''the entity would not constitute,'' he said.
If such failures increase taxes for investors in the trusts, Mr. Willens said, the courts will have to adjudicate the inevitable conflicts that arise.
What if a loan originator failed to provide documentation substantiating that what's known as a ''true sale'' actually occurred when mortgages were transferred into trusts -- documentation that is supposed to be provided no longer than 90 days after a trust is closed? Well, in that situation, a true sale may not have legally happened, and that doesn't appear to be a problem that can be smoothed over by revisiting and revamping the paperwork.
''The issue of bad assignment has many implications,'' said Christopher Whalen, editor of the Institutional Risk Analyst. ''It does question whether the investor is secured by collateral.''
In other words, were the loans legally transferred into the trust, and, if not, do the trusts lack collateral for investors to claim?
For example, according to a court filing last year by the Florida Bankers Association, it was routine practice among its members to destroy the original note underlying a property when it was converted to an electronic file. This was done ''to avoid confusion,'' the association said.
But because most securitizations state that a complete loan file must contain the original note, some trust experts wonder whether an electronic image would satisfy that requirement.
All of this suggests that while a paperwork cure may eventually exist for foreclosures, higher hurdles exist when it comes to remedying flaws in mortgage-backed securities. The only way to wrestle with the latter, some analysts say, is in a courtroom.
''The whole essence of this crisis is fraud and unless we restore the rule of law and transparency of disclosure, we are not going to fix this,'' said Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at Boston University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INTERVIEWS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); PRIVATE LABELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



655 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3049 words

HEADLINE: Should the Money Go Where the Oil Didn't?

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
ST. PETE BEACH, Fla.
IN late April, a week after the BPoil spill began, Keith Overton had an alarming encounter with one of his employees here at the TradeWinds Resort. The guy -- an engineer who had worked at the hotel for a dozen years -- had just spoken with his mother, who lives in Bosnia, and the conversation went like this:
''Are you going to be fired?'' she asked.
''Fired?'' the son replied. ''Why would I get fired?'' 
''Because your beach is covered with oil,'' she said.
Actually, there wasn't a drop of oil anywhere in sight. Not then, not in the months that followed and not now. This barrier-island city and snowbird haven is hundreds of miles from the nearest land befouled by the collapse of the Deepwater Horizon platform and the epic gusher it left behind.
''That was the moment I realized how big the problem had become,'' recalls Mr. Overton, who runs the resort. ''At first we thought, 'Well, people will know there's a spill in the Gulf of Mexico, and they won't think that St. Pete has been affected.' ''
Not so. After the explosion on April 20, there were some cancellations, but what really wrecked the summer for TradeWinds was the countless number of people who feared that oil was about to hit St. Pete and never called in the first place. By Mr. Overton's calculations, his profits from April to late October sank by slightly more than $1 million, compared with his average earnings during the same period for the last three years.
Of course, anyone who bothered to look at a map would have known that St. Pete Beach -- and hundreds of other vacation spots throughout the Sunshine State -- would have pristine beachfronts through the summer, even under the worst of the worst-case scenarios.
But Mr. Overton and others don't blame tourists or the news media for failing to grasp basic geography and ocean currents. They blame BP, and they think the company should compensate them for money they would have earned but for the onset of black-crude hysteria.
Are they right? Should companies like TradeWinds collect damages from an oil spill even if their beaches were never sullied? Put another way, should BP have to pay for economic hardship caused by the public's reaction to the oil, even if that reaction was utterly irrational?
The answers involve a sum of money that can safely be described as staggering. The aftermath and legal wranglings of the BP fiasco have focused so far on commercial interests -- like fishing, shrimping and food processing -- that relied directly on the gulf for their livelihoods. For the most part, these are people in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama.
What has scarcely been noted, however, is that virtually oil-free Florida just might hoover up the bulk of BP's settlement money. The company has set aside $20 billion for a fund intended to make whole both private enterprises (for lost earnings) and the states and the federal government (for cleanup costs), with a promise to throw additional money in the pot if more is needed to cover legitimate claims.
But what if every business in Florida's $60 billion-a-year tourist trade stands up and demands compensation for what it would have earned this summer had the spill not happened?
And what if hotels, restaurants, gas stations, miniature-golf courses, amusement parks, grocery stores, retailers, movie theaters and others want more than just those losses? What if they demand future lost revenue, too -- money that would have come to Florida next year, and the year after, but won't because people who spent their summer vacations in, say, South Carolina decided that they liked it enough to go back?
None of this should be very hard to imagine -- because it's happening. According to the estimates of plaintiffs' lawyers, more than 100,000 entities in Florida will make what are known as proximity claims, which are based on arguments of indirect harm.
Already, the sheer number of Florida claims is outpacing those of Louisiana, among claimants who have provided addresses of where they suffered damages to the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, which is administering the BP fund: 35,500 versus just over 31,000, as of last week. Even businesses in Miami and Key West are lawyering up.
''The entire tourism industry in this state has been impacted by people's fear that oil was going to hit Florida, whether those fears were reasonable or not,'' says Brian Barr, a Florida lawyer and a member of the plaintiffs' executive committee in the BP case. ''People don't come to Florida to sit in a hotel. They come to enjoy the natural resources of this state, and they were worried that the oil would affect that resource.''
Proximity claims, it turns out, fall into an area that has been debated for decades in law schools and in court opinions. Until early October, Kenneth Feinberg, the longtime mediator and the lawyer in charge of administering the spill fund, said publicly that he wouldn't consider such claims, in part because he thought they would open a door that thousands of businesses across the country would try to walk through.
The theoretical possibilities are endless. A restaurant owner in Boston: ''I had a Gulf shrimp scampi special that was off the menu for months. Pay me.'' A T-shirt maker in Tennessee: ''I'm stuck with 10,000 'I Love Pensacola' shirts. Pay me.'' These examples are just conjecture, but real ones are piling up. Thousands of claims from all 50 states have already been filed.
There is another reason that Mr. Feinberg initially balked at proximity claims: it's far from clear how they'd fare if they ever landed in court.
But he was ''clobbered,'' as he later put it, by Floridians, including some high-profile critics like the state attorney general. In a little-noticed reversal, Mr. Feinberg announced on Oct. 4 that he and his team would consider, though not necessarily pay out, proximity claims.
Now, plaintiffs' lawyers in Florida are already worrying aloud that BP hasn't set aside the kind of money that would constitute real compensation.
''They're worried that $60 billion won't be enough, and they might be right,'' Mr. Feinberg said in a recent interview. ''Especially if every single restaurant and hotel in Florida can simply stand up and say: 'Before the spill. After the spill. Pay me the difference.' ''
Mr. Feinberg then shrugs like a man trying to wrap his arms around a number that is simply too large to fathom.
A DECISION about proximity claims is coming in the next few weeks, with the approach of the Nov. 23 application deadline for emergency payouts related to the spill. For now, all eyes are on Mr. Feinberg as he determines the rules and decides who will be dealt a hand in a game of Texas Hold 'Em with some of the highest stakes in legal history.
His job is to keep everyone at the table. For him, success means presenting terms to all sides that sound more appealing than ditching the claims process and opting for an expensive, protracted swarm of lawsuits.
As Mr. Feinberg would be the first to acknowledge, this won't be easy. Florida plaintiffs might assume that juries will be sympathetic if these cases actually get to court. Then again, if plaintiffs overreach, BP might decide that it has no choice but to try its luck in the judicial system, betting that judges might toss out cases before they get to trial, or that big verdicts could be scaled back or even tossed out on appeal.
The trick for Mr. Feinberg is to sort through a jumble of legal minutiae, state politics and pitched emotion to find a solution that feels Solomonic to everyone, or at least better than the alternatives.
''The decision to at least consider proximity claims is the correct one,'' he says, enunciating carefully in his Massachusetts accent and speaking, as he always does, loud enough for the hard of hearing.
''Everybody stays in the fund and, hopefully, decides not to sue. But the big issue remains -- how do I assess the damages?''
For a guy on the verge of such a weighty decision, Mr. Feinberg seems at ease. Sitting one recent morning in his spacious office at his Washington law firm, Feinberg Rozen, he sips San Pellegrino Limonata as an opera plays faintly from a stereo system near his desk. His interior decoration of choice appears to be adulatory newspaper articles about Ken Feinberg. One is a recent Boston Globe editorial headlined ''Can Ken Feinberg Be Cloned?'' This would seem a little egomaniacal if the guy didn't project so much decency and personal warmth.
The Globe article, and many others, praise Mr. Feinberg for earlier performances distributing money in catastrophes. He was acclaimed for processing the 9/11 victims fund established by the federal government. He resolved 97 percent of those cases on his own. A mere 94 went to court.
It's a success rate that he does not anticipate in the BP matter. Part of the problem is no one is sure how BP will handle the Florida cases. The company didn't respond to interview requests.
The other issue confronting Mr. Feinberg is one of sheer volume.
''If proximity isn't a bar to claims, who knows how many there will be,'' he says.
Big numbers present complications. Almost from the start, there have been accusations leveled at Mr. Feinberg and his 25 assistants that claims for those hit hardest and most directly in the gulf aren't being processed fast enough; in late September, the Justice Department described the pace of his work as ''unacceptable.'' Adding tens of thousands of claims from Florida, and the rest of the country, won't help.
Then there is the matter of resource allocation. To the extent that there is a limit to what BP will pay, this is a zero-sum game, and in Louisiana, there is growing anxiety that proximity claims will siphon money from those suffering the most.
''There is a huge concern here about depletion of the BP fund,'' says Patrick Juneau, who is working as a liaison to Mr. Feinberg on behalf of the attorney general of Louisiana. ''Obviously, we're at ground zero here in Louisiana, and the farther away someone is from the oil, the more questions are raised by the claim -- like whether the losses were really the result of the spill.''
ON a late September afternoon, the temperature at the TradeWinds is just warm enough for sunbathing and the sky is cloudless, but the white-sand beach abutting the hotel is nearly empty.
''We run at about 30 percent occupancy in September,'' says Mr. Overton, a square-jawed 43-year-old in a Hawaiian shirt who manages to look both stern and laid back at the same time -- picture Jimmy Buffett's bodyguard. ''We make all our money in six months, and our best months are March to July.''
He is giving a tour of the premises -- 800 hotel rooms and condo rentals and 13 bars and restaurants -- and explaining why the spill could hardly have been timed worse. He has a spreadsheet detailing his losses and the story behind those figures.
The tale is more complicated than just ''People stopped booking rooms here.'' What happened is that occupancy rates sank, which led Mr. Overton to drop prices. That pushed up occupancy rates, which left him with what he calls ''the double whammy'' -- a large-ish number of visitors, with all the overhead costs they incur, but a smaller revenue stream to cover those expenses.
Details like this get to the challenge of proximity claims: figuring out what, if anything, they're worth.
How much of the TradeWinds' duress can be blamed on its strategy, which led to the dire-sounding ''double whammy''? Is BP liable for both whammies? If another hotel experienced a triple whammy, should BP pay for all three? And how much of the TradeWinds' troubles this summer stemmed from the lousy economy, as opposed to oil-phobia?
Once the resort asks for money for future losses, which it plans to do, there are more imponderables. Mr. Overton couldn't maintain the level of staffing that he desired, and, as a result, service suffered.
''You arrive at the hotel and it takes you an extra couple minutes to get your stuff unloaded,'' he says. ''It takes longer at the front desk, and you get up to your room and you think: 'I'm not going to come back to this place. It just isn't up to my standards.' How do you value that?''
How indeed? And once you figure that out, how do you decide what part, if any, of the shortfall should be covered by BP?
It's the kind of conundrum that scholars have been puzzling over for a very long time.
ON the morning of Aug. 24, 1924, a 43-year-old homemaker named Helen Palsgraf stood on the Jamaica Station platform of the Long Island Rail Road in Queens, waiting for a train. When it arrived, a man struggling to climb aboard was given an assisting push by a railroad employee on the platform and a pull by another employee on the train. That caused the man to drop the package he was carrying, a newspaper wrapped around some fireworks.
What happened in the next few seconds was described the next day in The New York Times as a ''short-lived pyrotechnics display,'' though it sounds more like a scene from a Looney Tunes reel. The fireworks exploded, and the shock reportedly toppled a scale on the platform some distance away, which fell on Ms. Palsgraf.
She sued the railroad over her injuries and won $6,000, roughly $75,000 in today's dollars. But her victory didn't last. It was reversed by the New York Court of Appeals, and the majority opinion in the 4-to-3 decision was written by the future Supreme Court justice Benjamin N. Cardozo.
To win a tort claim, as every law student knows, a plaintiff needs to prove that a defendant was negligent and owed the plaintiff a duty -- in Ms. Palsgraf's case, a duty not to be harmed. Chief Judge Cardozo was skeptical that railroad employees had acted negligently, because the package carried by the passenger didn't outwardly appear to be dangerous. But, more important, he dismissed Ms. Palsgraf's claim because she was ''outside the zone of foreseeable danger'' and therefore was not owed a duty.
The key finding was this: The further away a plaintiff is from the defendant -- physically, or as part of a causal chain -- the harder it is to win a lawsuit.
This opinion, in Palsgraf v. Long Island Railroad Co., became a central touchstone of American tort law, one with such abiding force in legal culture that a re-enactment of the 1924 accident, performed with Legos, is now posted on YouTube.
As narrow as the law is when it comes to indirect physical harm, it is narrower when the harm is indirect and economic.
''The classic law school case example is a guy who negligently rams his boat into a bridge and the bridge collapses,'' says David Logan, dean of the Roger Williams University School of Law in Bristol, R.I. ''Business on that island is shut down for as long as it takes to rebuild the bridge. But generally, the law says that unless the boat physically harmed your property, you can't collect.''
At root, the law is concerned that people would be reluctant to operate a boat, or drill for oil, if liability for an accident extended to its innumerable ripple effects. In the case of the Exxon Valdez, a tanker that devastated the Alaskan shore with oil in 1989, none of the plaintiffs making proximity claims -- hunting lodges, fishing lodges, cruise ships and so on -- were given a dime.
''We were operating under federal maritime law,'' says David Oesting, an Anchorage lawyer who handled litigation for the plaintiffs, ''which basically says 'no touch, no foul.' It was and is terrible.''
Mr. Oesting speaks of the Valdez litigation in the present tense because it isn't over. On the day of this phone interview, an assistant in a nearby office was preparing the last round of checks -- about $130 million -- to be sent to plaintiffs, 21 years after the accident.
ALL of this history explains why, in legal circles, Mr. Feinberg's original decision to bar proximity claims was considered utterly mainstream. But the BP oil spill was unlike any that came before it -- larger, and beamed live on television for months. And the legal patchwork of laws under which plaintiffs can make claims now includes the Oil Pollution Act, which provides for ''damages equal to the loss of profits or impairment of earning capacity due to the injury, destruction or loss of real property, personal property or natural resources.''
Does that include a hotel on a beach, 450 miles from the nearest oil? How about one 50 miles inland from the same beach?
Working outside of the court system, Mr. Feinberg isn't necessarily constrained by the act, or state or federal tort law. But to figure out what, if anything, these claimants should be paid, he needs a sense of what would become of them if they slogged through the dockets.
So Mr. Feinberg has quietly hired one of the country's foremost scholars on torts -- he declined to provide a name -- to write a memorandum about the validity and value of proximity claims.
The memo is due soon, and Mr. Feinberg has no idea what it will say. But it won't serve as a blueprint, he says. It will serve as leverage. If the memo states, for instance, that certain proximity claims are stinkers, Mr. Feinberg could say to claimants, ''You'll get nothing in court, but I'll give you 20 cents or 30 cents on the dollar.''
Or the memo could say that some claims might well succeed, but only after clearing a very high standard of proof of damages. Then Mr. Feinberg could offer a slightly lower standard.
Those are just two of many possibilities. Regardless of what is in the memo, Mr. Feinberg won't start writing checks willy-nilly, no matter how many plaintiffs line up, no matter how many people yell at him, and no matter how many people are eager to see BP punished, legal niceties be damned.
This guy is versatile, but Santa Claus is one role he will not play.
Mr. Overton and other business people in Florida think this is no time for stinginess. He likens the BP oil spill to hurricanes that struck the state years ago, and he worries that the impact will be the same.
''We haven't had a hurricane since '04, but still today, we can't get close to achieving the occupancy level we had in August and September, pre-'04,'' he says. ''People know a hurricane is possible and they don't want risk it.''
The analogy between storms that actually destroyed property and a spill that did not is hardly perfect. But this may be the only difference that matters: you can't sue Mother Nature.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People like Keith Overton, head of a resort in St. Pete Beach, argue that they are eligible for compensation from BP. Oil never touched most Florida beaches, but tourists were scared off anyway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL C. WEIMAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
Kenneth Feinberg, center, is deciding whom BP must compensate. Keith Overton and Carol Dover represent Florida businesses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Lines outside the Pensacola, Fla., office of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility in August. Most of Florida's coastline was untouched by oil, but the spill affected many local businesses indirectly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY McCRACKEN/PENSACOLA NEWS JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU6)
The TradeWinds Resort in St. Pete Beach, Fla., was not hit by the oil spill that began in April, but it may be among the collateral damage: occupancy rates sank, and the hotel cut prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL C. WEIMAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) MAPS: CLAIMS BY PLACE OF RESIDENCE: Residents and businesses from all 50 states have submitted claims to BP to request compensation for losses and damages from the oil spill.
CLAIMS BY LOCATION OF LOSS: When examined by actual areas of reported losses, the claims are more concentrated along the Gulf Coast. But some still come from as far away as upstate New York, Oregon and Alaska.
 INITIAL PAYMENTS BY LOCATION OF LOSS: BP has set aside $20 billion to pay all legitimate claims to compensate individuals and businesses. So far, about $1.2 billion has been allocated, primarily near the oil slick. Louisiana has received the most. But Florida is already a close second, and if proximity claims are allowed, tens of thousands of Sunshine State claimants far from the slick could ultimately receive much more than people and businesses in directly affected areas. (Source: The Gulf Coast Claims Facility) (MAPS BY ERIN AIGNER, ROBERT GEBELOFF AND AMY SCHOENFELD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); BEACHES (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); GEOGRAPHY (67%); OCEANS (66%); DAMAGES (65%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (61%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



656 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Rapid Rise in Runners Who Are Sharing Their Strides With Those in Need

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
When Max Lieberman saw a break in the line, he ran. Officers leading the Auschwitz death march shot him, but he kept sprinting through the woods until he collapsed in a field. Farmers nursed him to health, and he never wanted to run again.
More than 65 years later, Izzy Lieberman will traverse the five boroughs of the New York City Marathon to honor his father's escape in Poland and to help others whose post-Holocaust journeys have become increasingly difficult to bear.
''I think of him every morning when I'm running,'' Lieberman said of his father, Max, who died of pancreatic cancer a decade ago, ''and I'm just pushing it and pushing it.''
Lieberman, 51, guaranteed his entry into the Nov. 7 marathon by raising money for the Blue Card, a fund that assists destitute Holocaust survivors in the United States. In the field of 43,000, 7,400 will be running for charity, an increasingly viable way to get into the coveted race for those who do not beat the long lottery odds, qualify by time or live near enough to participate in 10 required races in New York. 
Running for charity has been a common way to enter other major marathons for decades -- especially in London, where nearly 80 percent of the field of 36,550 ran for charities in 2010, raising $81 million. It is a fairly new phenomenon, however, in New York.
The Blue Card is among 86 charity teams, up from 14 in 2006, when New York started its program. In addition, 104 community charity teams from the New York area will each have 5 to 10 entries. The New York Road Runners, the nonprofit organization that operates the race, estimated that $26.2 million would be raised, about $2 million more than last year's total and $15 million more than in 2006.
''It's so compelling,'' said Mary Wittenberg, the Road Runners' chief executive. ''The potential we have to have a huge, positive impact on these charities encourages us to be really creative and persistent to increase that impact.''
Yet race officials are trying to balance the rapid growth of the program -- which not only benefits the charities, but the Road Runners, too -- with its possible pitfalls. New York's symbiotic financial model reveals the delicate dance of business and philanthropy.
The Road Runners' minimum fund-raising requirement is $2,500 per runner, which individual charities can set higher. Some may pay the money out of their own pockets just for the privilege of running in the race. In exchange for a high-profile fund-raising platform, the charities pay nonrefundable upfront fees that range from $525 to $950 per entry, depending on perks like advertising, and tents and buses on race day. Such an arrangement brings more than $3.8 million to the Road Runners. Wittenberg said that pays for administration costs, transportation, insurance, medical staff and other race-day items for the marathon runners, in addition to supporting the 58 races and fitness initiatives the organization offers year-round.
Charities like the American Cancer Society, with 300 entries, or Livestrong, with 185, have no trouble generating interest and high-level donations, and by the Oct. 5 deadline, 96 percent of the teams sold out, said Richard Hulnick, the Road Runners charity director.
The New York-based Team Continuum, which is raising money to support families of cancer patients and whose founder, Paul Nicholls, persuaded the Road Runners in 2004 to develop its program, struggled this year. Although partnering with Donna Karan, who designed its race T-shirts, the team will be stuck with 50 unused entries out of the nearly 300 it requested.
''It's a big loss for us, through nobody's fault but the economy,'' Letty Simon, Team Continuum's chief operating officer, said.
The charities apply for entry, then negotiate with the Road Runners for the number of slots.
''We want charities to sell out and we work really hard to manage the numbers,'' Wittenberg said. ''In the future we'll go to smaller allocations.''
The Blue Card shows that modest direction -- for now. The team grew to 55 runners, from 35 last year, and repeatedly appealed to the Road Runners for more entries, even buying some from another charity that could not fill its slots.
''This marathon brought a lot of visibility to the organization and to the cause,'' said Elie Rubinstein, the executive director of the Blue Card. ''The elderly is not so much a sexy cause.''
Founded in 1934 in Germany to aid Jews in financial distress, the Blue Card now works with Jewish social service agencies in communities in the United States. It provides additional support to Holocaust survivors, like meals and clothing, and sends $100 birthday checks to as many as 2,000 of the estimated 25,000 impoverished survivors in this country.
In New York, the team expects to raise $140,000, all for Holocaust survivors, Rubinstein said, because philanthropic support covers the Blue Card's administration costs.
Few members knew the charity existed before they joined. The team's founder, Michelle Hersh of Camas, Wash., learned about it from her teenage daughter, who was completing a service project.
''I just felt this incredible drawing to this charity because there are people who went through this absolute hell,'' said Hersh, who lobbied the Road Runners for a year to include the Blue Card. ''They are in this state of destitution where they don't know whether they eat or get vitamins, and they have no one. We have to help.''
Because of the success of the program in New York, the Blue Card now fields teams for the Miami, Los Angeles and Atlanta marathons. Its participation in New York demonstrates how the charity movement there has come full circle.
Fred Lebow, the founder of the race, opposed the concept of paying to run and believed charities would drain resources from the club. Yet when he was treated for brain cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, he saw the benefit of fund-raising for children's cancer research. Fred's Team, formed in 1991, became the first official charity of the race.
For Lebow, who died in 1994, the Blue Card's mission would have also had personal significance. Born Fishl Lebowitz in Arad, Romania, he survived the Holocaust as a teenager, hiding first in his native Romania and then in Bulgaria, and living as a refugee in England and Ireland before coming to the United States.
''I didn't think of it as what Fred would approve of,'' Hulnick said. ''I thought it was something we had no representation for -- there was nothing else like it. For example, we don't want 10 autism charities; we want a broad spectrum.''
Not all of the Blue Card members are Jewish. Jesse Dean, 39, of Hoboken, N.J., grew up as a Jehovah's Witness in rural Montana, where he learned that members of his faith were sent to concentration camps during the Holocaust.
''For me, it's an opportunity to express the history of hatred toward people who are perceived as different, and to encourage openness,'' said Dean, who works with elderly volunteers in New York.
He is halfway to his goal, directing friends and colleagues to the Web site Imathlete.com, which facilitates fund-raising. (Imathlete charges a lower percentage for administration fees than Crowdrise.com, with which the Road Runners partners.)
''People have been generous,'' Dean said. ''The first question I usually get is, 'There are still Holocaust survivors?' ''
Aviva Gat, 22, from Manhattan Beach, Calif., does not need to ask. She is running again this year because her grandmother Rachel is a Holocaust survivor living in Israel.
''She's very frail,'' Gat said, ''and I know if she is like that because of the war, so many others are, too.''
Lieberman, an orthopedic surgeon from Plano, Tex., has raised $5,000 from friends, many of whom were also children of survivors. At first he wanted to enter his own charity, the Uganda Spine Mission, but missed the application deadline in June. He then saw the Blue Card on the marathon's Web site and knew it was the right avenue for his first marathon.
''My father,'' Lieberman said, ''will be with me every step of the way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Blue Card, who will be running in the New York City Marathon to raise money for Holocaust survivors. The group is one of 86 teams running in the marathon for a charity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONIKA GRAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Izzy Lieberman, a Blue Card member, at home in Plano, Tex. His father, Max, who died about 10 years ago, at right with a fellow Holocaust survivor, Albert Wexelman, left, in about 1940. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF IZZY LIEBERMAN
 ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (91%); MARATHONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); HOLOCAUST (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (55%); CANCER (55%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); POLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



657 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: A Fear That Kurdish-ArabTensions Will Worsen After U.S. Leaves

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
The new trove of documents released by WikiLeaks portrays the long history of tensions between Kurds and Arabs in the north of Iraq and reveals the fears of some American units about what might happen after American troops leave the country by the end of 2011.
''Without strong and fair influence, likely from a third party, these tensions may quickly turn to violence after the U.S. forces withdrawal,'' warned a Sept. 28, 2009, field report. 
Experts have long watched the tensions in the region with worry. Their main fear is not that senior Kurdish officials will seek a confrontation with the Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad. The main interest of the political leadership, many experts say, is making sure the oil-rich region continues to grow economically.
Rather, it is that local Kurdish and Arab politicians and security officials may take matters into their own hands if crucial disputes remain unsettled, particularly after the departure of American forces, which have regularly worked behind the scenes to head off confrontations.
Kurds and Arabs are at odds over power-sharing arrangements in the Kirkuk region, the degree of federalism that should be allowed in the Iraqi state, the terms of a new oil law and territorial disputes. Those disputes have been complicated by the fact that American forces initially welcomed the presence of Kurdish troops, the pesh merga, in some parts of northern Iraq to help fend off insurgents.
Relations have been so fraught that Gen. Ray Odierno, who recently left his post as the senior American commander in Iraq, established a series of checkpoints, maintained by American, Iraqi and Kurdish soldiers, to head off confrontations, either accidental or planned.
Obama administration officials have voiced hopes that the Kurds' participation in a new governing coalition will foster long-deferred compromises and lead to the gradual integration of pesh merga fighters into Iraq's army. But little headway has been made on Kurdish-Arab issues in recent years. The administration is also planning to open embassy branch offices in the cities of Mosul and Kirkuk, which would enable American diplomats to focus on Arab and Kurdish issues even after American forces depart.
The reports disclosed by WikiLeaks document a long history of tensions, which insurgents from Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a Sunni Arab extremist group, have sought to exploit.
A Sept. 27, 2008, report showed how violence could erupt even when officials on both sides were trying to keep tensions in check. After Iraqi police officers near Khanaqin, in Diyala Province, arrested and roughed up a member of a Kurdish intelligence organization, a local Kurdish leader went to a police station to obtain his release.
The prisoner was let go, but an ''ensuing verbal altercation'' led to shots being fired and the death of a pesh merga fighter.
A report two months later described a more calculated assault: The planting of a roadside bomb in another northern area.
''The Arabs of that district hate the IP's there because their police chief is a Kurd,'' who had links to Kurdish intelligence, noted a Nov. 22, 2008, report, using the military's abbreviation for the Iraqi police.
Insurgents have repeatedly sought to stir up trouble between the two sides. On Dec. 11, 2008, a suicide bomber, wearing a vest filled with explosives, blew himself up in a restaurant near Kirkuk that was patronized by Kurdish and Arab officials.
''This attack was likely intended to intimidate the leaders and to dissuade future meetings of political and religious leaders attempting to unite the province,'' the field report noted.
The report on a particularly tense episode in May 2009 provides a unusual glimpse at the role American military personnel and civilians have played in trying to avert sectarian violence.
Atheel al-Nujaifi, a Sunni Arab and the newly elected governor of Nineveh Province, was already a polarizing figure for the Kurds, and tensions grew when he proclaimed on May 7 that he planned to visit a hang-gliding festival at Bashiqa. This is a small town northeast of Mosul, in Nineveh Province, but which the Kurds have long claimed.
Two days later, a liaison officer from the Kurdish regional government told Brig. Gen. Robert B. Brown, the deputy American military commander for northern Iraq, that if Mr. Nujaifi ''traveled into Kurdish controlled area, there would be a potential incident,'' the May report noted.
In an effort to head off a confrontation, Alexander M. Laskaris, the head of the State Department's provincial reconstruction team in Mosul, called the governor and warned him against making the trip, which did not appear to sway Mr. Nujaifi.
As the festival approached, American soldiers from the Third Brigade Combat Team, First Cavalry Division went to inspect the road to the event. Officially, the pesh merga fighters and Iraqi soldiers shared the common goal of thwarting attacks by insurgents and terrorists, but now they appeared to have squared off like two opposing armies.
Pesh merga fighters at a checkpoint on the road to Bashiqa said that they had been ordered to shoot the governor if he tried to pass. Iraqi soldiers, who had their own checkpoint nearby, reported that they had been ordered to fire on the pesh merga if they shot at the governor, the report noted.
By this time, the issue had been brought to the attention of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who also sought to head off trouble. Mr. Maliki ordered the Iraqi military command in the province not to provide security for the trip, apparently calculating that this would prompt the governor to cancel the visit.
None of that seemed to stop Mr. Nujaifi, who arranged for the local police to protect him.
Finally, a face-saving solution was found: the minister of youth and sports in Baghdad canceled the festival. While that solved the immediate problem, the underlying issues remained. As the May 8 report cautioned: ''Recent reporting illustrates increased potential for ethnic tensions.'' Read the Document <check>

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEC. 11, 2008 NEAR KIRKUK, IRAQ: A bomb killed at least 48 people in a restaurant as Sunni Arabs and Kurds met for talks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARWAN IBRAHIM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 FEB. 22, 2006 BAGHDAD: Nationwide protests and violence erupted after the bombing of a Shiite shrine in Samarra. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WATHIQ KHUZAIE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); AL-QAEDA (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); DISMISSALS (60%)

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



658 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Food Issue: Eating Together

 BODY:
It is a rare day that I sit down and read The New York Times Magazine cover to cover -- a 2-year-old and a husband who steals the magazine for the crossword the moment it lands on our front step provide enough obstacles -- but I saw Sunday's cover and knew I needed it back once the crossword was wrestled into submission. Thank you so much; such beautifully written articles. I laughed, cried and stood in awe of the amazing things people are doing with food and creating community. When I finished, I passed the magazine back to my husband and said, ''Read everything.''
KATHERINE REYMANN Salt Lake City 
Cheers to the Food Issue and its focus on community. All too often, we buy, prepare and eat our meals on autopilot, isolated in our thoughts and worries.
We need to slow down and appreciate our food, noticing the way it connects us to family and friends, the local farmers and the dedicated chefs and the earth, clouds and sun -- indeed, to the entire universe. Thank you for initiating this deliciously interesting conversation.
LILIAN CHEUNG, D.SC. Harvard School of Public Health Boston
By choosing to deal with small farming, niche operations and the role of food in community, you have not only ignored the reality of food production in the United States but also missed a chance to discuss, in depth and at length, the very real problems and potentials embedded in this reality.
Niche farming is just that -- niche. I know people involved in specialty farming and farmers' markets and admire them. I much admire what those people in Maine and Alabama are doing and wish them nothing but the best. I am aware that this sort of small farming is increasing and applaud this trend. But it's not the story, and as journalists, you are required to tell the story. U.S.D.A. figures show that the number of big farms is growing steadily, at about 15 percent a year, year in and year out. The number of small farms, fewer than 50 acres, also is growing at about the same pace. The traditional family farms in between are vanishing. This means that the locavores and the niche farms you celebrate are, indeed, a trend, but a marginal one. The real news is that because the 15-percent increase in big farms starts from a much higher acreage base, more and more farmland and more and more farm output is coming from big farms.
The future of food is bigness. We're in a global economy now, where economies of scale are vital. This means big corporations, big banks, big farms. All this bigness, as we've just learned, is dangerous. But if big banks are too big to fail, so is big agriculture. It is vital to our future. Like the big banks, these big farms and the big agri-biz corporations absolutely must be regulated much more tightly than they are now, as the DeCoster egg case recently reminded us. But to suggest that there's an alternative to them, and that alternative lies in a suburban farmers' market or a vacant Detroit lot, is just frivolous.
RICHARD C. LONGWORTH Senior Fellow Chicago Council on Global Affairs Chicago
I just wanted to compliment you on the Food Issue cover. It is inventive, witty and beautiful. The entire visual style this week is superb, in fact -- and even more so in its tactile form. Although the magazine section of the Web site looks great, nothing compares to the printed work; this week's edition exemplifies it!
JUDITH M. SMITH Brooklyn
In dissecting the nation's eating habits, the Food Issue presents a smorgasbord of obsessions that are inevitably linked to the astounding fact that from the early 1960s to the present, obesity in the United States has risen to well over 30 percent, from 13 percent. Worse yet, abdominal obesity has risen in both women and men. These unsightly trends suggest that America's obsessive interest in eating is dangerously abnormal. Typically the plight of our nation's expanding waistline is blamed on low-cost fast food and ever-present junk food. But clearly the malfeasance is broader and extends to more sophisticated, high-priced epicurean foods. This end of the food spectrum needs to take more responsibility for the weight problem and start warning consumers that the tiramisu and the T-bones are injurious to their health. Better still would be recognizing that food is not an art, that eating is not a sport and that conquering obsession is good food for the soul.
ROD CARLSON White Plains, N.Y.
Thanks for your recent articles about the connection between food and community. It's a symptom of our shared loss of traditional American community; we're looking to replace what we have lost. Keep digging deeper.
TODD RONGSTAD Whitefish Bay, Wis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM SCHIERLITZ.) GRAPHIC: MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: The Food issue
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); AGRICULTURE (72%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); FAMILY (72%); GLOBALIZATION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



659 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Now Isn't the Time To Cut the Deficit

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and until last month was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
THE clamor to cut the budget deficit is deafening. Blue Dog Democrats, Tea Party Republicans and doomsday economists are calling for immediate action. And the demands for austerity coming from abroad are even louder.
Make no mistake: persistent large budget deficits are a significant problem. Government borrowing in good times crowds out private investment and lowers long-run growth. It can also make policy makers unable or unwilling to use adequate fiscal stimulus in times of need: concerns about the deficit limited the size of the stimulus act in 2009 and are a main reason that Congress has refused to take additional measures to cut our painfully high rate of unemployment. And our projected long-run deficits are simply unsustainable.
So, the question is not whether we need to reduce our deficit. Of course we do. The question is when. 
Now is not the time. Unemployment is still near 10 percent in the United States and in Europe. Tax cuts and spending increases stimulate demand and raise output and employment; tax increases and spending cuts have the opposite effect. This is a basic message of macroeconomics and a central feature of public- and private-sector forecasting models. Immediate moves to lower the deficit substantially would likely result in a 1937-like ''double dip'' as we struggle to recover from the Great Recession.
Some advocates of austerity argue that, contrary to the conventional view, fiscal tightening now would lower long-term interest rates and improve confidence so much that the impact could be positive. But an ambitious new study in the World Economic Outlook of the International Monetary Fund confirms that fiscal consolidations -- that is, deliberate deficit reductions -- typically reduce growth substantially.
The study considers a wide range of advanced economies over the last three decades, so it doesn't put too much weight on unusual episodes or focus on examples supporting particular conclusions. It also breaks new ground by looking specifically at times when governments changed taxes or spending with the aim of reducing deficits. Previous studies looked at summary measures of the budget situation, and likely included cases when strong economic performance caused lower deficits, not the other way around.
The recent experience of countries already carrying out austerity measures is consistent with the central finding of the I.M.F. study. Ireland, Greece and Spain have all had rising unemployment after moving to cut deficits.
Taking budget actions now that would further increase unemployment would be not only cruel, but also short-sighted. The longer unemployment remains high, the more likely it is to become permanent as workers' skills deteriorate and they gradually drop out of the labor force.
Such a situation would be terrible for both the affected workers and the long-run budget situation. Imagine a patient with a slow-growing tumor who is also recovering from pneumonia. The outcome is likely to be worse if the patient is not given time to recover before undergoing surgery.
Waiting has the further benefit of allowing conventional monetary policy to regain its footing. The I.M.F. study found that the negative effects of deliberate deficit cuts are usually softened by reductions in interest rates. But interest rates in most advanced economies are already very low, and the effectiveness of central banks' other tools, such as quantitative easing -- buying certain securities to reduce long-term borrowing costs even further -- is highly uncertain. As a result, monetary policy can currently do relatively little to counteract the impact of such deficit cuts.
But once the economy has substantially recovered, the Federal Reserve will be ready to raise interest rates. At that point, the Fed could help maintain growth by instead continuing very low rates as the deficit is reduced. Waiting for conventional monetary policy to be back on line is like waiting for the anesthesiologist to arrive before doing surgery.
True believers might say we should never wait, because a slow-growing tumor could turn virulent. But we need to think about actual risks. Today, markets are willing to lend to the American government at the lowest 20-year interest rate since 1958. In the crisis of 2008 and 2009, money flowed to the United States because it was seen as the safest spot in the storm. There is no evidence that we have to act immediately.
Countries that enjoy the markets' confidence have another reason to wait. Greece and other troubled nations on the periphery of the euro zone can no longer borrow at affordable rates. They must immediately cut expenditures and raise taxes, despite the terrible toll on employment and output. Countries like the United States, Germany and France can play an essential role as sources of growth and demand for the world economy. Strengthening our economies will help keep the world from slipping into another recession, and allow for continued healing of vulnerable financial markets here and abroad.
WHILE immediate fiscal tightening isn't wise for the United States, we do need to address the deficit. The best thing would be for Congress to pass a plan now that will reduce deficits when the economy is back to normal. France's recent plan to gradually raise its retirement age to 62 from 60 is a classic example of such ''backloaded'' reduction. President Obama's proposal to eliminate the Bush tax cuts on high incomes is another: it would raise revenue by only $30 billion in 2011, but by more than $600 billion over the next decade.
History shows that well-designed backloaded plans are credible. For example, changes to Social Security eligibility and taxes have been passed years, if not decades, before they took effect. And in an environment like today's, when Congress has again agreed to pay-as-you-go rules, deviating from planned reforms forces countervailing actions.
Such backloaded deficit reduction would not hurt growth in the short run -- and could raise it. If uncertainty about future budget policy is harming confidence, as some business leaders suggest, spelling out future spending and tax changes could be helpful. More important, showing that policy makers can come together and make essential decisions about our fiscal challenges would reassure all Americans that our economic future is better than the current grim reality.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PNEUMONIA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



660 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: To Get a Clear View, Take the Economists Out to the Ballgame

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In sports, as in so many walks of life, economics has a way of vindicating its status as the dismal science. That shiny new baseball stadium must be good for the economy, right? Wrong. An appearance by the local team in the World Series, that has to be a boost for businesses, no? No. Isn't there intangible value in being a ''major league'' city, and having a winning team? Well, maybe -- but the emphasis is on the intangible.
It's almost impossible to find an economic study -- other than those financed by stadium boosters -- that shows a positive impact from taxpayer investment in professional sports. As Oakland tries to figure out how to keep the A's and the Raiders in town, and as Santa Clara works to lure the 49ers south from San Francisco, the mountain of evidence showing that stadiums are unreliable economic engines looms large. 
But if you were anywhere near AT&T Park in San Francisco last week as the Giants battled the Philadelphia Phillies for a spot in the World Series, you could only conclude: Economists are nuts.
Throngs flocked the streets around the waterfront ballpark, many walking from downtown offices. Bars and restaurants were overflowing, parking lots were charging $60 a spot and the sea of orange betrayed huge spending on apparel and souvenirs.
In truth, that kind of spending, and even the money dropped by out-of-towners visiting for a playoff game, doesn't make much of a dent in a big economy like the Bay Area's. But from an economic perspective, game day is the least of it.
AT&T Park, which opened in 2000, has played a central role in making a once-forlorn part of San Francisco vibrant. To the north booms the South of Market district, with a raft of new high-rises and lively street life even when there isn't a game. To the south is Mission Bay, a massive development envisioned as a biotech hub. Ted Egan, San Francisco's chief economist, said the activity created by the stadium is in fact proving to be an important draw.
Compared with other stadiums around the country, AT&T Park is an anomaly -- foremost because it was not built with public financing. After years of failed efforts to persuade local voters to pay for a ballpark, the Giants were sold in 1992, and the new owners agreed to pay for a stadium themselves if the city would contribute some infrastructure improvements. The voters finally agreed to that -- and they are now being rewarded for holding the line.
A winning team in a nice facility in the right location is a powerful economic formula -- as long as the taxpayers don't have to foot too much of the bill. In particular, the concept of the intimate downtown ballpark, pioneered in Baltimore and mimicked in Denver, Cleveland, San Diego, and now Minneapolis, among other places, has proved a catalyst for urban redevelopment.
And the psychic benefits, intangible though they may be, cannot be easily dismissed. Economists have trouble capturing psychological impact in their formulas, but they recognize that confidence and optimism lead people to behave in economically beneficial ways. So excitement about a team really can provide a financial lift.
Even veteran Giants fans are amazed at the civic energy around this year's pennant run -- and it's partly because the team is physically in the heart of the city.
''There's incredible energy throughout the city -- it's very uplifting, especially in this economy,'' noted Alan Mark, a real estate marketing consultant who said he had has sold thousands of apartments near AT&T Park.
The importance of location should give pause to Santa Clara, which this spring gained voter approval for a football stadium in a nondescript setting next to a theme park. The financing plan includes the sale of personal seat licenses -- a formula that has proved disastrous in Oakland.
The question of who pays the bills remains crucial. With the value of sports franchises so rich, many teams are in a better position than ever to pay most if not all the costs of their facilities. It requires political nerve for cities to stare down team owners who threaten to move and insist that the team pony up -- but it can be done, at least in attractive markets like San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND RAIDERS (56%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



661 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: The Election That Wasn't

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
In the past two weeks, I've taken the Amtrak Acela to the Philadelphia and New York stations. In both places there were signs on the train platforms boasting that new construction work there was being paid for by ''the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009,'' that is, the $787 billion stimulus. And what was that work? New ''lighting'' -- so now you can see even better just how disgustingly decayed, undersized and outdated are the rail platforms and infrastructure in two of our biggest cities. 
If we were a serious country, this is what the midterms would be about: How do we generate the jobs needed to sustain our middle class and pay for new infrastructure? It would require a different kind of politics -- one that doesn't conform to either party's platform. We will have to raise some taxes to generate revenue, like on energy or maybe a value-added tax, and lower others, on payrolls to stimulate work, and on multinational corporations to get them to bring the trillion dollars they have offshore back to the U.S. for investment. We will have to adjust some services, like Social Security, while we invest in new infrastructure, like high-speed rail and Internet bandwidth; the U.S. ranks 22nd in the world in average connection speed. And, most of all, we will have to have an honest discussion about how we got in this rut.
How we got into this rut is no secret. We compensated for years of stagnating middle-class wages the easy way. Just as baseball players in the '90s injected themselves with steroids to artificially build muscle to hit more home runs -- instead of doing real bodybuilding -- our two parties injected steroids, cheap credit, into Wall Street so it could go gambling and into Main Street so it could go home-buying. They both started hitting home runs, artificially -- until the steroids ran dry. Now we have to rebuild America's muscles the old-fashioned way.
How? In the short run, we'll probably need more stimulus to get the economy moving again so people have the confidence to buy and invest. Ultimately, though, good jobs at scale come only when we create more products and services that make people's lives more healthy, more productive, more secure, more comfortable or more entertained -- and then sell them to more people around the world. And in a global economy, we have to create those products and services with a work force that is so well trained and productive that it can leverage modern technology so that one American can do the work of 20 Chinese and, therefore, get paid the same as 20 Chinese. There is no other way.
Sure, more countries can now compete with us. But that's good. It means they're also spawning new jobs, customers, ideas and industries where well-trained Americans can also compete. Fifteen years ago, there were no industries around Google ''search'' or ''iPhone applications.'' Today, both are a source of good jobs. More will be invented next year. There is no fixed number of jobs. We just have to make sure there is no fixed number of Americans to fill them -- aided by good U.S. infrastructure and smart government incentives to attract these new industries to our shores.
But not everyone can write iPhone apps. What about your nurse, barber or waiter? Here I think Lawrence Katz, the Harvard University labor economist, has it right. Everyone today, he says, needs to think of himself as an ''artisan'' -- the term used before mass manufacturing to apply to people who made things or provided services with a distinctive touch in which they took personal pride. Everyone today has to be an artisan and bring something extra to their jobs.
For instance, says Katz, the baby boomers are aging, which will spawn many health care jobs. Those jobs can be done in a low-skilled way by cheap foreign workers and less-educated Americans or they can be done by skilled labor that is trained to give the elderly a better physical and psychological quality of life. The first will earn McWages. The second will be in high demand. The same is true for the salesperson who combines passion with a deep knowledge of fashion trends, the photo-store clerk who can teach you new tricks with your digital camera while the machine prints your film, and the pharmacist who doesn't just sell pills but learns to relate to customer health needs in more compassionate and informative ways. They will all do fine.
But just doing your job in an average way -- in this integrated and automated global economy -- will lead to below-average wages. Sadly, average is over. We're in the age of ''extra,'' and everyone has to figure out what extra they can add to their work to justify being paid more than a computer, a Chinese worker or a day laborer. ''People will always need haircuts and health care,'' says Katz, ''and you can do that with low-wage labor or with people who acquire a lot of skills and pride and bring their imagination to do creative and customized things.'' Their work will be more meaningful and their customers more satisfied.
Government's job is to help inspire, educate, enable and protect that work force. This election should have been about how.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAINS (90%); STEROIDS (88%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BASEBALL (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); VALUE ADDED TAX (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (51%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



662 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: The Candidates and Climate Change

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''In Climate Denial, Again'' (editorial, Oct. 18) vented some frustration over Republican candidates' obstinate refusal to acknowledge climate change. The truth is that it doesn't really matter what Republicans or climate contrarians believe.
Despite enormous efforts to discount the research and data of climatologists, there is a vast body of evidence supporting the theory of climate change across many disciplines that study our planet: biology, physics, chemistry and ecology. 
The truth is that our belief in climate change is irrelevant: First, the rest of the world is filled with a vast population of people who do recognize climate change. They continue to act without us and will use technologies, build economies and forge alliances without us. Our political situation only acts to discredit and isolate the United States from the rest of the world.
Second, climate change will continue to occur without us. With many rare and important resources already becoming scarce, oil production at its peak and declining, and urgent concerns over fresh water supplies, the reality of the situation looks very grim indeed. We may choose to stick our heads in the sand and believe whatever we want, but that won't prevent the beach from washing away and taking us with it.
Michelle Bennett Chattanooga, Tenn., Oct. 18, 2010
To the Editor:
A predominant and ubiquitous theme of Republican candidates in this year's election is that it is the prospect of leaving our children and grandchildren with a crushing burden that makes them so greatly concerned about the accumulating federal deficit. On the other hand, these same Republicans seem completely unconcerned about the prospect of leaving our children and grandchildren with a much less habitable planet.
The overwhelming scientific consensus is that unchecked climate change will likely inflict major ecological hardships on our descendants. Yet out of either ideological blindness to reality or sheer political opportunism, Republicans insist on climate change denial. Their stance is both irresponsible and shameful.
Russ Weiss Princeton Junction, N.J., Oct. 18, 2010
To the Editor:
Thank you for your excellent editorial. Unfortunately, there is a sad irony here. Your editorial board is similarly in denial about one of the United States' major obstacles to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our population, now about 310 million, will skyrocket to 438 million by 2050, according to the Pew Research Center. According to Pew, mass immigration will be responsible for four-fifths of that growth.
Since the United States has the largest per capita resource use and greenhouse emissions of any major industrialized nation, and since a large plurality of immigrants come from nations with much smaller per capita footprints, mass immigration is unfortunately a lose-lose for the planet. Your credibility would be helped by addressing your own denial issues.
David C. Holzman Lexington, Mass., Oct. 18, 2010
To the Editor:
We may reasonably predict that Republican and conservative consciousness with regard to global warming will pass through three stages. In each, as always, the shortest-term personal concern over actions that might affect ''my taxes'' trumps science, facts and the longer-term good for society.
The first stage has been ''Global warming is a hoax, it doesn't exist.''
The second is, ''O.K., global warming is occurring, but there is nothing we can do about it.'' Many Republicans are already moving from the first stage to the second.
The third will be, hysterically no doubt, ''Global warming is hurting my business and personal property, and why isn't the federal government doing something about it?''
Joseph H. Ellis West Cornwall, Conn., Oct. 18, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); IMMIGRATION (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (54%) EARTH (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



663 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Health Care and the Campaign

 BODY:
Republican candidates and deep-pocketed special interests are spreading so many distortions and outright lies about health care reform that it is little wonder if voters are anxious and confused.
Here are a few basic facts that Americans need to keep in mind before they go to the polls, and afterward. First, most aspects of the reform do not go into effect until 2014. Second, things are indeed bad out there: The costs of medical care and insurance premiums are (still) rising, and some employers are (still) dropping coverage. But for that, you should blame the long-standing health care crisis and the current bad economy. Health reform is supposed to help with these problems.
Here is a look at the claims being made on the campaign trail -- and the distortions they contain: 
PURE NONSENSE: John Raese, the Republican candidate for the Senate in West Virginia, is claiming that the law will require patients to go through a bureaucrat or panel to reach a doctor. That is flat out untrue. You will still choose your own doctor or insurance plan without interference. Nor, despite other claims, will the law provide subsidized insurance to illegal immigrants. They are precluded from using even their own money to buy policies on new exchanges.
The Obama administration will not be compiling a federal health record on all citizens, including each individual's body mass index, as Ann Marie Buerkle, a Republican running for a House seat in upstate New York, has claimed on her Web site. The administration is offering incentives to doctors to record various vital statistics in electronic medical records and report the data in the aggregate, to help understand national health trends.
WE CALL THAT CAPITALISM: Republican politicians never tire of denouncing health care reform as a ''government takeover'' -- or socialism. What is true is that the law relies heavily on private insurers and employers to provide coverage. It also strengthens regulation of those insurers and provides government subsidies to help low- and middle-income people buy private insurance on the exchanges.
Those exchanges will promote greater competition among insurers and a better deal for consumers, which last time we checked was a fundamental of capitalism.
WHAT ABOUT MCDONALD'S? Conservative commentators pounced after the fast food chain and several other large employers that provide skimpy, low-cost policies to their workers warned that they might drop their health plans entirely if forced to comply with the new law. They particularly objected to a requirement that they begin raising the low annual limits on what their plans are willing to pay for health care.
In response, the administration has granted some 30 waivers for one year (Rush Limbaugh promptly accused the administration of allowing these employers to ''break the law'') and has signaled willingness to smooth out other bumps on the road toward full reform. In 2014, all plans will have to meet minimal standards and large employers will have to provide coverage or pay a stiff fine.
WHAT ABOUT MY PREMIUMS? Some Republicans are also claiming that health reform is driving up premiums. There have been sharp increases in some states, primarily in response to soaring medical costs. Some insurers may also be trying to increase their profits before the reform law holds them in check. A few very welcome provisions that take effect early, like requiring insurers to cover preventive care without cost-sharing, will play a minor role in premium increases for next year.
Reform has also energized federal officials and many state regulators to challenge and force down big increases sought by insurers. The Justice Department just filed suit against Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Michigan for allegedly using its market power to drive up costs for its competitors and its own subscribers.
MEDICARE SCARE TACTICS: Republican candidates routinely and cynically charge that the reform law will ''cut'' $500 billion from Medicare -- leaving the clear implication that benefits will be reduced. In reality, the law will slow the rate of increase in payments to health care providers over the next decade, and benefits for most beneficiaries will be as good or better than they are now.
The only beneficiaries apt to see a change are those enrolled in private Medicare Advantage plans that will lose their unjustified subsides. Many of these beneficiaries, roughly a quarter of the Medicare population, may have to pay more for their plans or may lose the extra benefits, like gym memberships or dental care, that the subsidies pay for. Some inefficient plans will die out, but the efficient private plans will compete successfully with traditional Medicare -- on an even playing field.
MEDICAID SCARE TACTICS: Republican governors are complaining bitterly that reform will force them to expand their Medicaid programs. What they are not saying is that the federal government will pick up the vast bulk of the added expense to cover millions of vulnerable Americans. States that do not want this largess will be shortchanging the health of their poorest citizens, who will continue to use costly -- to the state and the taxpayers -- emergency rooms for routine health care.
WHAT THEY'RE NOT SAYING: Health care reform has already brought substantial benefits, mostly starting in late September. Insurers are now barred from dropping coverage after a beneficiary becomes sick. Dependents can stay on their parents' policies until age 26. Insurers must cover preventive services and annual checkups without cost-sharing. Lifetime limits on how much insurance plans will pay for treatment are gone.
The major benefits start in 2014, when tens of millions of the uninsured will gain coverage through Medicaid or by buying private coverage -- with government help for low- and middle-income Americans -- on the new competitive exchanges. If you lose your job, you will no longer lose access to insurance. And with government help the coverage should be affordable.
Far too few Democrats are explaining this on the campaign trail. The barrage of attack ads are hard to push back against. But the voters need to know that health care reform will give all Americans real security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICS (79%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TRENDS (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (70%); TAKEOVERS (69%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (51%); FAST FOOD (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



664 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Calling Mr. Mom?

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer and the author of the Motherlode blog.

 BODY:
You could easily compile statistics to make the case that women -- at least Western women -- are already empowered. In the United States, we are 50 percent of the workplace (and 51.4 percent of managerial and professional jobs). We receive three college degrees for every two earned by men (along with 60 percent of all master's degrees, about half of all law and medical degrees and 43 percent of M.B.A.'s). Working wives are coming close to bringing in nearly half the household income. Single, childless urban women under 30 actually earn 8 percent more than their male peers. 
But all this evidence isn't particularly persuasive to the one group that should know: women. After all, you could compile a whole other set of figures that show just how far from empowered we are. Start with the Government Accountability Office study last month, which found that professional women still make 81 cents for every dollar a man makes in a similar job. Then count the women in the corner suites and the highest-paying professions. (It won't take you long: women currently make up only 3 percent of Fortune 500 C.E.O.'s.) And women still perform twice the housework and three times the child care that men do, even in homes where women are the primary breadwinners.
Telling women they have reached parity is like telling an unemployed worker the recession is over. It isn't true until it feels true. That's because measuring women's power by looking only at women -- and by looking mostly at the workplace -- paints a false picture.
Men today are at the turning point women reached several decades ago, when the joint demands of work and home first intensified. In her new book, ''Reshaping the Work-Family Debate: Why Men and Class Matter,'' Joan C. Williams describes how men find themselves caught between meeting cultural expectations and a growing dissatisfaction with the constricted roles shaped by those expectations. ''You have to ask why, if women are asking men to change, and if men say they want change, it hasn't happened,'' she says. ''Either they are all lazy, or they are under tremendous gender pressures of their own.''
The life-work dilemma for women has long been that ''the workplace has changed in their favor, but home hasn't,'' she says. Men, however, ''have the opposite problem. More is expected of them at home, but expectations have not shifted at work.'' Which explains why the percentage of fathers in dual-income households who say they suffer work-family conflict has risen to 59 percent from 35 percent since 1977.
Younger couples say they want and expect parity in their relationships. But many women still carry a chip on their shoulders, chiseled in part by years of keeping all those to-do lists in their heads. And if men can find no relief from the pressures of work, they are not going to be able to fit into the revamped economy of home.
How then to inch toward change? Can we make it ''manly'' (or even better, ''gender neutral'') to spend a day with a child, or earn less money but have more family time, or be the only parent at a parent-teacher conference because your wife has a meeting? ''If long hours are really about proving 'whose is bigger,' you can have flex policies until the sun sets and men won't use them,'' Williams says.
Indeed, where flex policies are offered, American men don't use them as much as American women do. In California, one of two states in the country to provide paid parental leave (or ''bonding leave'') for both parents, 74 percent of new mothers took the new benefit compared with 26 percent of new fathers. This is, to be sure, an improvement over the 17 percent who took it when the program was first introduced in 2004-2005. (It is also significantly higher than the percentage of French men who take time off. French law allows both parents to take a leave or to work reduced hours until their child is 3, but 97 percent of those who do so are women.) It's better than it used to be, but it's far from equal.
There are some practical reasons for these discrepancies. Biology dictates that many women will take pauses during the prime career-building years that men don't need to take. Similarly, breast-feeding during the first month to year of life means a child necessarily spends more time with the mother. Often, though, what look like causes are really effects -- we make assumptions about sex roles and then reinforce them with our behavior. If you challenge those assumptions, it follows that you can change behavior. Which explains what happened in Sweden.
Today the Swedes have one of the world's most forward-thinking parental leave policies, but it took years of tweaking before men took substantial time off to care for children. Starting in 1974, couples were given six months of paid leave to divide in any way they chose. Women consistently used more of the time than men; in fact, only 4 percent of fathers took any leave at all. In 1995, however, a month of fathers-only leave was introduced, and in 2002, another month of ''daddy leave'' was added, bringing the total to 480 days. If men don't take the leave before their child turns 8, they lose the days. Now about 80 percent of Swedish dads take at least some time off.
By steering men toward a particular path, Sweden redefined the nature of choice. Parental leave was transformed from a way to escape the world of work into a way to maximize the benefits available to families; from an emotional decision to a financial one; from something mothers do to something every parent does. Would that same kind of redefinition -- of the relationship between work and home, of the roles of men and women -- work on this side of the Atlantic? In at least one case, it already has.
Four years ago, the now-bankrupt Lehman Brothers wanted a flextime policy but worried about the mommy-track stigma attached. They looked for a way to make flextime gender neutral by giving it a clear business purpose. Workers were asked to participate in a pilot program to create a telecommuting infrastructure in case a terrorist attack or natural disaster crippled its Manhattan headquarters. Men who didn't stay home to take care of children began to do so when it became a matter of national security.
Empowering American women can no longer focus only on women -- on leveling playing fields or offering mothers ''on-ramps'' and ''offramps'' or shattering ceilings one at a time. All those efforts must continue, yes. But none will succeed if we don't change our expectations for men. Or, more accurately, men's expectations for themselves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE BLACKMON) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO)
 GRAPHIC: 52% of women on MATERNITY leave receive at least some pay compared with 16% of men on PATERNITY leave. (GRAPHIC BY ROBERT MANN GALLERY. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : FAMILIES AND WORK INSTITUTE , 2008.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); MEN (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PARENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



665 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Raising Sails for the Fed's Gales

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THERE were plenty of worries in the stock market last week -- about an unexpected rise in interest rates in China and the latest fallout from the American housing crisis, just for starters.
Add to the list the global imbalances in capital flows and currency alignments, the feeble economic recovery in the United States and the volcanic rhetoric of partisan midterm election campaigns, and it makes for a gloomy picture.
''The evidence that the sky is falling has been pretty compelling,'' said Barry Ritholtz, chief executive of FusionIQ, an equity research firm, and proprietor of The Big Picture, a financial blog. 
Yet the stock market managed to grind out some gains last week. And even though Mr. Ritholtz believes we are mired in a long-running bear market, his outlook for the next several months is bullish. Like many other strategists, he has found some solace in a Wall Street adage: ''Don't fight the Fed.''
The Fed, of course, is the Federal Reserve, which has considerable power over the money supply. In a series of speeches, policy statements and transcripts since Aug. 27, its officials have indicated that they are very likely to make their extraordinarily expansive monetary policy even looser.
While there are evidently internal disagreements at the Fed, Ben S. Bernanke, its chairman, and several other officials have said that inflation is low enough to pose a risk of deflation, and that unemployment is too high and economic growth too slow.
Congress, meanwhile, isn't likely to approve new legislation to stimulate the economy in the near future, especially if Republicans make big gains on Nov. 2, as is expected. And on the monetary side, short-term interest rates are already near zero. So the Fed appears to be gearing up for further unconventional action -- the launching of a second round of ''quantitative easing,'' or QE2, as it's being called.
While the details aren't clear -- they are expected to entail the purchase of more Treasury securities, and the expansion of available credit in the financial system -- the general outline of Fed policy has seemed evident to market strategists for weeks.
''The Fed is easing,'' says Ralph Acampora, a veteran market analyst and a partner at Altaira Wealth Management. ''When that happens, stocks tend to rise. That's got to count as good news.''
Mr. Ritholtz puts it this way: ''When the Fed opens its fire hose, you're going to get wet. If you're smart, you get ready for it.''
On Sept. 24, David Tepper of Appaloosa Management, a hedge fund manager, said on CNBC that the Fed's signals had made him confident that the stock market could not fall far -- and would likely rise over the short run.
Such sentiments are being widely expressed. Gus Sauter, the chief investment strategist at Vanguard, says he is ''fairly bullish,'' and for a number of reasons -- among them a judgment that with corporate earnings on the rise, stock valuations are fair. And he says he is paying respectful attention to the ''Don't fight the Fed'' mantra.
It also helps, he says, that the stock market has consistently risen after midterm elections. (I've written about stock market patterns and the American political cycle in recent columns.) Mr. Sauter does not advocate market timing, but, he says, ''The outlook right now is fairly good.''
Similarly, Robbert Van Batenburg, head of equities at Louis Capital Markets, says that Fed easing and the election cycle are propitious for the stock market. Because he believes Congress will be inclined to keep taxes relatively low, dividend-paying stocks should benefit, he says. And he says he expects that in a more inflationary environment, shares in the retail sector should rise.
Still, some nagging problems remain. On the housing front, the recent imbroglio over mass home foreclosures is playing out not only in the courts, but also in the hands of state regulators and federal officials.
Bank of America, the biggest of the nation's banks, ended a brief moratorium on foreclosures last week. But myriad investigations and lawsuits continue throughout the industry. Where will that crisis end?
For investors in financial stocks, the worry centers on the potential for very large write-downs by banks. ''I don't really know how to evaluate this,'' says Edward Yardeni, an independent economist. He wonders whether new problems with mortgage-backed securities could threaten the financial system. ''Probably not,'' he says. ''But I'm not sure.''
A self-professed market bull, Mr. Yardeni says he believes that the Fed is making it likely that stocks will rise over the short term. But, he says, Fed easing is superfluous and probably dangerous because the business cycle is strong enough to be self-sustaining.
''I'm afraid that QE2 will create a trifecta of asset bubbles'' -- in stocks, bonds and commodities, he said.
Bonds have rallied partly because the Fed has helped make yields unusually low. And rising commodity prices, which are generally quoted in dollars, have been correlated with the dollar's decline. That, in turn, is at least partly a consequence of comparatively loose monetary policy.
STILL, Mr. Yardeni says, it is noteworthy that Janet Yellen, in her first speech as Fed vice chairwoman, warned this month of the dangers of ''asset bubbles.''
''We haven't seen much explicit concern about asset bubbles coming from the Fed in the past,'' Mr. Yardeni says.
Facing the threat of competitive currency devaluations, finance ministers of the G-20 countries were meeting in Gyeongju, South Korea over the weekend in hopes of restoring concord. The United States has been pressuring China to revalue its currency upward against the dollar, but China has resisted. And by raising interest rates within its borders last week, ''China appears to be fighting the Fed,'' Mr. Yardeni says.
As the world's second-largest economy, China may be able to go its own way for a while. But when the Fed exerts its powers, it usually makes sense for market traders to bend with the wind.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Yellen, vice chairwoman of the Fed, which seems ready to loosen monetary policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRANSCRIPTS (71%); EQUITY RESEARCH (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); APPROVALS (66%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



666 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: What About Afghan Women?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan
For those of us who favor a sharp reduction in American troops in Afghanistan and a peace deal with the Taliban, the most vexing question is: What about Afghan women?
Time magazine framed the issue in a wrenching way with a cover this summer of Aisha, an 18-year-old woman who ran away from an abusive husband. The article said that last year the Taliban had punished Aisha by having her nose and ears hacked off -- a traditional punishment for women considered disobedient or promiscuous. Her husband did the cutting.
Time quoted Aisha as saying of the Taliban, as she was touching her disfigured face: ''How can we reconcile with them?'' 
It's a fair question, as is: Are those of us who favor a military pullback in Afghanistan sentencing more women to be brutalized? Those are questions that I came to Afghanistan to wrestle with.
Women are fearful, no question. Here in Kabul, far fewer women wear the burqa today than on my previous visits. But several women told me that they were keeping burqas at home -- just in case. The gnawing fear is that even if the Taliban do not regain control in Kabul, fundamentalist values and laws will gain ground.
Still, it seems to me a historic mistake to justify our huge military presence in Afghanistan as a bulwark to protect the women. In fact, most women I interviewed favored making a deal with the Taliban -- simply because it would bring peace. For them, the Taliban regime was awful, but a perpetual war may be worse.
Take Pari Gol, a woman from Helmand Province whom I met here in Kabul. She despises the Taliban and told me on this trip that back in 2001, ''I prayed that the Taliban would be defeated, and God listened to my prayers.''
Yet in the fighting since then, she said, her home was destroyed and her husband and daughter were both killed by American airstrikes. She is now living in a mud hut here -- fuming at the Taliban, the Americans and the Afghan government. ''I hate all of them,'' she told me.
Remember also that while women in Kabul benefit from new freedoms, that is not true of an Afghan woman in a village in the South. For such women there, life before 2001 was oppressive -- and so is life today.
One man from Helmand Province, Wali Khan, told me that there would be no difference for women in his village, whether the Taliban rule or not, because in either case women would be locked up in the home. He approvingly cited an expression in Pashto that translates to: ''a wife should be in the home -- or in the grave.''
In other words, oppression is rooted not only in the Taliban but also in the culture. The severing of a woman's nose and ears occurs not only in Taliban areas but also in secure parts of Pakistan. Indeed, I've come across such disfigurement more in Punjab, the most powerful and populous province of Pakistan, than in Afghanistan -- yet I haven't heard anybody say we should occupy Pakistan to transform it.
The best way to end oppression isn't firepower but rather education and economic empowerment, for men and women alike, in ways that don't create a backlash. As I wrote in my last column, schooling is possible even in Taliban-controlled areas, as long as implementation is undertaken in close consultation with elders and doesn't involve Westerners on the ground.
Often the best place to hold girls' literacy classes is in the mosque. And the insistence of Western donors that they get credit with signs on projects they finance is counterproductive. Buildings might as well have signs reading ''burn me down.''
One impressive force for change is BPeace, which encourages female entrepreneurs in Afghanistan. Soora Stoda, one of the entrepreneurs I met, is building a potato chip factory. Another, Shahla Akbari, makes shoes. Her mother, Fatima Akbari, has 3,000 (mostly female) employees around Afghanistan, working in jam-making, furniture building, tailoring, knitting, jewelry and other lines.
Fatima Akbari is now expanding her women's businesses and literacy classes in Taliban-controlled areas, always working closely with mullahs and elders to gain their support and protection. ''When you go and win their hearts, you can do anything,'' she said.
''I'm not threatened by negotiations with the Taliban,'' she added. ''In fact, it would be good for the Taliban to be involved in the country, to see that there's nothing wrong with women leaving the house. And once there's a deal with the Taliban, security will be better.''
So let's not fool ourselves by thinking that we're doing favors for Afghan women by investing American blood and treasure in an unsustainable war here. The road to emancipate Afghan women will be arduous, but it runs through schools and economic development -- and, yes, a peace deal with the Taliban, if that's possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



667 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Carrying the Facts Too Far

 BODY:
Views from readers, responses from the staff, and thoughts from the public editor.
In a recent article (''The Great Deflation: Japan Goes From Dynamic to Disheartened,'' Oct. 17), Martin Fackler wrote that Japan had gone from ''Godzilla'' to ''an afterthought'' in the world's economy. Given that the World Economic Forum ranked Japan's economy sixth in terms of competitiveness this year, I hardly think describing it as ''an afterthought'' can be defended. It makes for colorful writing, but in a newspaper, I expect at least a passing resemblance to the truth.
I find the increasing reliance on flash and exaggeration in U.S. media disturbing. Lincoln said, ''Let the people know the facts and the country will be safe.'' How can a democracy function if news organizations stretch, bend and deform the facts in order to better entertain their readers/viewers/listeners?
The Times continues to write stories that emphasize drama and emotive writing over facts. 
Ward Wilson Trenton
Kyle Crichton, regional editor for East Asia: As the article made clear, the ''Godzilla'' Japan was the one of the 1980s: it spurred American business to improve its quality and competitiveness, raised debates here about the need for industrial planning, moved the Reagan administration to negotiate auto import quotas, and raised public fears that most of United States industry would soon fall under Japanese ownership.
Compared with that, I think it is quite fair and accurate to describe the Japan of today as an afterthought. Sure, Japan is still competitive and remains at least the third largest economy in the world. But when was the last time the Japanese economy was a source of anxiety in Washington or anywhere else, other than for its pitiful performance?
Arthur S. Brisbane: When Mr. Fackler wrote this piece, he faced a real challenge: how to bring alive for a wide audience a story about the economic decline of Japan. On many counts, the resulting work was a tremendous success: it was selected for Page 1 of the Sunday Times, and readers liked it so well that it vaulted to the top of The Times's ''most e-mailed'' list. Mr. Fackler accomplished this in part by describing the experiences of real people.
But the article also buzzed with vivid language that set up the tale, including this sentence: ''For nearly a generation now, the nation has been trapped in low growth and a corrosive downward spiral of prices, known as deflation, in the process shriveling from an economic Godzilla to little more than an afterthought in the global economy.''
Mr. Crichton, the editor of the story, offers a reasonable defense, but I agree with the objection raised by Mr. Wilson, the reader. While it is true that Japan Inc. may not threaten to topple the U.S.'s economic supremacy, as Godzilla famously toppled parts of the Tokyo skyline, it is a real stretch to downgrade Japan to an ''afterthought.''
Is this kind of overreaching a big problem at The Times? Well, it's not Godzillian, but it does tick off some readers, and that is worth pausing to think about.
Complaints about overstatement by reporters and headline writers come to me frequently from people who are extremely close readers of the paper. Many of these, like Times readers in general, are highly educated and bring very high expectations. Their complaints often seem to carry the thought: New York Times, you are the last bastion of reliable daily journalism; do not fail me now.
These well-informed readers object to exaggeration especially when it is used in subject areas where precision is prized -- areas like economics, for example, and science.
Jason Hodin, a postdoctoral scholar at Stanford, faulted another fascinating Page 1 story for the sin of stretching. The article, by Kirk Johnson, appeared in print on Oct. 7 under the headline ''With Scientists, Soldiers Solve a Bee Mystery.''
It dealt with a new study of the mystifying phenomenon known as Colony Collapse Disorder, in which 20 to 40 percent of U.S. bee colonies are believed to have died off. Mr. Hodin contended that the study identified new factors that appear to be ''linked'' to and ''implicated'' in the die-off, while the Times story and headline stretched the facts to conclude more.
The article described two new suspect factors -- a virus and a fungus, acting in combination: ''together, the research suggests, they are 100 percent fatal.''
Mr. Johnson, who was not responsible for the headline, said: ''That Colony Collapse had been finally and permanently solved seemed neither evident to me, nor -- in rereading the story as it appeared in the paper -- the message of what we published. It certainly was not the intent.''
Indeed, there were passages in the story that offered caveats, including this: ''Scientists in the project emphasize that their conclusions are not the final word. The pattern, they say, seems clear, but more research is needed to determine, for example, how further outbreaks might be prevented, and how much environmental factors like heat, cold or drought might play a role.''
Notwithstanding the caveats and the intent, however, the combination of the headline and some of the language in the article created a more conclusive impression. As I have learned at the public editor's desk, that's the kind of stretch that some readers are quick to spot.
Marriage and Achievement
The heavy majority of couples typically featured in the Sunday wedding announcements either attended elite universities, hold corporate management positions or have parents with corporate management positions. It's nice to learn about the nuptials of the privileged, but Times readers would benefit from learning about a more representative sampling of weddings in our diverse city.
I'm curious as to how editors select which announcements to publish, and why editors don't make a sustained effort to include different types of couples.
Max Sarinsky Manhattan
Robert Woletz, society editor: The Weddings/Celebrations pages are truly open to everyone, and The Times persistently encourages couples from all backgrounds to submit their stories. And they do, typically in the hundreds during the peak wedding season.
Like any other part of The Times, however, the section's editors and writers must identify and put before its readers the most interesting stories. Given the finite amount of space and personnel that The Times can devote to reporting on these couples, only a representative sample of what has been submitted appears in the Weddings/Celebrations pages on any given week.
The only truly fair way to select one submission over another is on the basis of achievement. This paper makes no secret of the fact that it is ever on the lookout for those who seem destined to play a role in advancing the sciences, law, the arts, engineering, communications and other fields. When the daughter of a seamstress and a line cook graduates at the top of her medical school class at Yale or Stanford, or creates a well-received play or innovative Web site, that represents an achievement for both the subject and her parents. It also tells the story of how one generation of this nation of immigrants builds on the next.
Yes, readers are also likely to see items about the unions of sons and daughters of corporate managers, and even a few who can trace their roots to the landing of the Mayflower. But you will also find police officers, prosecutors and military personnel. And you will encounter those like Jennifer Keen and Paul Sousa, a formerly homeless couple who turned their lives around (''Vows,'' June 28, 2009). What Ms. Keen and Mr. Sousa achieved was worthy of recognition, and demonstrated that the definition of achievement is ever-changing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RANKINGS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



668 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS; That Wide Income Gap

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Income inequality is more than a problem of abstract social justice, or even widespread emotional distress (''Income Inequality: Too Big to Ignore,'' Economic View, Oct. 17) . 
Robust and rising middle-class income is necessary for the whole economy to grow. Long ago, Henry Ford, hardly a socialist, paid his workers twice the going wage. He believed that his workers should be able to buy the cars they built. For a time after the New Deal, when capitalists forgot this insight, unions made corporations share profits with workers.
The Federal Reserve has now reduced interest rates to near zero. Corporations are sitting on tons of cash. But they will not invest until they see a steady stream of customers. To grow, a capitalist economy depends upon steady aggregate demand. And aggregate demand ultimately depends on long-term rising consumer income, not on short-term credit.
Caroline Poplin, J.D., M.D.
Bethesda, Md., Oct. 19
To the Editor:
Our current economic culture, encouraged by laws and policies, has created our country's most dominant special-interest group: secure individuals with power and wealth.
When the United States became a world leader, however, its economic culture was more inclusive and dynamic. It supported the creation of wealth and a broad-based infrastructure, allowing a majority of Americans to participate. It created a hard-working, optimistic, ingenious population. It encouraged capitalism for the many, not for the few.
By returning to that culture, we could regenerate inclusive opportunity and dynamic growth, the combination that propelled America to the top.
Eric C. Williams
Chicago, Oct. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



669 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SCENE STEALER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: When Hollywood Gives Hope To Main St.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
''WANT to go the movies?''
Tommy Lee Jones poses the question to Chris Cooper in ''The Company Men,'' a social drama from the writer and director John Wells that is set for release in December by the Weinstein Company.
The question comes at what students of Hollywood story architecture will recognize as the bottom of the second act. That's when things (seemingly) can't get worse. 
Mr. Jones, as the fictional Gene McClary, and Mr. Cooper, as his longtime right-hand man, Phil Woodward, are a couple of suddenly unemployed shipbuilding executives who have been drinking, philandering and otherwise acting out their rage and confusion at having lost jobs in the current economic troubles.
They're too old to get new jobs, and too proud to stop trying. Along with Ben Affleck, who plays Bobby Walker, a sidelined fellow executive from a rapidly downsizing conglomerate, the company men McClary and Woodward are trying to jump-start new lives, while kicking some life into America's dreary economy.
And catching a movie, as Mr. Jones suggests at that low point, might not be a bad idea -- for any of us.
Historically, the movies have helped get the country in gear when the solution to a crisis depends at least in part on new resolve and a boost to the spirits.
''We're in the money!'' Hollywood told us, with a wink, in ''Gold Diggers of 1933,'' one of many films to tackle the Great Depression head-on. Come World War II, the film industry signed up with inspirational dramas like ''Casablanca'' and ''Mrs. Miniver.''
In 1984, when a wave of farm foreclosures weighed on the national psyche, no fewer than three studio films -- ''The River'' from Universal Pictures, ''Places in the Heart'' from TriStar and ''Country'' from Touchstone -- rallied support that merged with a music-driven Farm Aid campaign and culminated in the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987.
But the bewildering journey through a subprime lending crisis, a market collapse and federal bailouts, added to the lingering pain of chronic joblessness, appears to have left filmmakers at something of a loss.
They have been quick enough to spot Wall Street gone awry. This year, ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,'' directed by Oliver Stone, and a pair of documentaries, ''Inside Job,'' directed by Charles Ferguson, and ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer,'' directed by Alex Gibney, all chronicle in one way or another the sins of a financial industry that lost its moorings.
But the movies have offered little in the way of solace for Main Street, which has been in considerable pain since 2007.
''Up in the Air,'' the 2009 Paramount Pictures film of which Jason Reitman was the director and a writer, took a jab at unemployment. But the cold brilliance of its lead character, the job-termination expert Ryan Bingham, played by George Clooney, seemed to stun more than inspire the audience, which eventually gave the film a respectable $84 million in domestic ticket sales.
Mostly, Hollywood has offered escape into fantasies like ''Avatar,'' ''Toy Story 3,'' ''Iron Man 2'' and the ''Twilight'' series. But in directing his first feature, Mr. Wells, the well-regarded writer-producer behind television series like ''Southland,'' ''ER'' and ''The West Wing,'' couldn't resist a long tradition in which Hollywood film has tried to join us in coping with trouble.
''There's a light at the end of the tunnel,'' Mr. Wells said in a recent telephone interview, describing ''The Company Men'' and its underlying lesson. ''There's a resilience in the American character that the movie is trying to celebrate.''
In truth, Mr. Wells said, events overtook the movie -- on which he had been working even before job losses and the financial crisis became the stuff of headlines in 2008. Several years ago, he said, a brother-in-law who worked as an electrical engineer lost his job, and pointed Mr. Wells toward Internet chat rooms where the unemployed were discussing their experiences.
Mr. Wells put a query on the Web about job loss, and in the first weekend got more than 2,000 responses.
A common thread was that people ''felt as if they'd done something wrong; they felt shame,'' he said.
A sense of shared experience clings to the film, which was produced on a modest budget of less than $20 million. Its stars, including Kevin Costner, who appears as a gruff but good-hearted construction contractor, worked for a small fraction of the salaries they usually command. In a series of test screenings, Mr. Wells said, panels of viewers were asked whether they knew someone like the unemployed company men in the movie. ''Every single hand went up,'' he said.
LIKE most Hollywood filmmakers, whose first mission is to entertain, Mr. Wells is wary of setting up ''The Company Men'' as a message movie. (It won't spoil the plot to say the guys mostly pull through.)
''I'm always very careful,'' he cautioned, ''about making it seem like a film or a piece of literature is telling you to eat your vegetables.''
But, he said, it may be time for the movies to take a look at what's happening on underemployed Main Street, and to applaud those fighting their way out of the problem. ''One of the things that makes America great is that we actually do kind of suck it up,'' he said.
And, who knows? A good movie might move us, and our dismal economy, through the bottom of the second act.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tommy Lee Jones, left, and Ben Affleck in ''The Company Men,'' about out-of-work executives seeking a new start. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAIRE FOLGER/WEINSTEIN COMPANY)
John Wells, above, directed ''Company Men.'' Last year, ''Up in the Air,'' with George Clooney, showed the coldness of corporate layoffs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT KESSLER/REUTERS
 DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); FORECLOSURE (67%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (62%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); SHIPBUILDING (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



670 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: A Call for Political Courage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Wars That America Forgot About,'' by Tom Brokaw (Op-Ed, Oct. 18): 
As the mother of a soldier who recently returned from a year in Kandahar Province in Afghanistan, and who previously served for 14 months in Iraq, I've experienced firsthand America's indifference to these wars and to the men and women who put their lives on the line.
I appreciate Mr. Brokaw's attempt at taking our politicians to task for ignoring our troops, their families and the untold harm to our nation resulting from these prolonged military operations.
Greater numbers of Americans are growing weary of these wars and would prefer that our tax dollars be used to strengthen health care, education and our failing economy. Every candidate who aspires to Congress should repeatedly state his or her positions on future war funding and services for returning veterans -- a politically risky gesture that would result in being held accountable if elected.
So most sidestep the issue at best, or at worst exploit our service members' bravery and patriotism with meaningless campaign rhetoric.
When candidates begin to demonstrate a fraction of the courage of our troops, then I will truly be a proud American.
Maggie Pondolfino Washington, Oct. 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); POLITICS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



671 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; VENTURE PHILANTHROPY RWANDA CONGO NEPAL; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 4632 words

HEADLINE: The D.I.Y. Foreign-Aid Revolution

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is a New York Times Op-Ed columnist. He is the author, with his wife, Sheryl WuDunn, of ''Half the Sky: Turning Oppression Into Opportunity for Women Worldwide.''

 BODY:
Like so many highly trained young women these days, Elizabeth Scharpf has choices. She could be working in a Manhattan office tower with her Harvard Business School classmates, soaring through the ranks as a banker or business executive and aspiring to become a senator or a C.E.O. someday.
After all, there's no question that women around the world enjoy opportunities that simply didn't exist a few decades ago. Yet the women exerting the greatest pressure for change often aren't the presidents and tycoons but those toiling further down the pyramid, driven by a passion to create a better world. And in particular, a better world for women.
That's Scharpf's choice. Now 33, Scharpf was interning in the summer of 2005 for the World Bank in Mozambique, helping local entrepreneurs, when she encountered a business impediment that she had never heard of. It was unmentionable, and thus unmentioned. It was menstruation. 
A female boss griped to Scharpf about absenteeism caused by women reluctant to come to work during their menstrual periods. ''It was because pads were too expensive,'' Scharpf recalls. ''I was trying to figure out why I had never heard of this before. This was causing productivity rates to go down.''
Scharpf began asking around, and everybody told her -- in whispers -- that, yes, of course menstruation was keeping women and girls from jobs. Back at Harvard, where she was pursuing joint degrees at the business school and the John F. Kennedy School of Government, she began asking friends from Bangladesh, Nicaragua and other countries if they were aware of this problem. Of course, they said. ''This spoke to me,'' Scharpf recalled. ''Hasn't every girl or woman experienced the inconvenience, the disadvantage and the embarrassment in her life, when her period strikes at the 'wrong' time? I think half the world can relate to that. What really struck me was that this was a global issue that seemingly had significant costs. From back-of-the-envelope calculations, it had huge costs. And it could have a simple solution.'' She paused and smiled tightly. ''I was a little naive there.''
Scharpf is a mild-mannered policy wonk, but the more she thought about it, the more indignant she became. Girls were missing school because they couldn't afford sanitary pads? Women couldn't go to work for lack of pads? And all this was taboo to discuss? Scharpf began to scheme.
And so Scharpf joined a revolution, so far unnamed because it is just beginning. It's all about what might be called Do-It-Yourself Foreign Aid, because it starts with the proposition that it's not only presidents and United Nations officials who chip away at global challenges. Passionate individuals with great ideas can do the same, especially in the age of the Internet and social media.
I became interested in such figures while writing a book with my wife, Sheryl WuDunn, about educating and empowering women as a solution to many of the world's problems. We ran into extraordinary men, like Muhammad Yunus of Grameen Bank, who pioneered microfinance in Bangladesh. Or Bill Drayton, an American who is a godfather of entrepreneurs working for social change and who now runs a group called Ashoka to support them. Or Greg Mortenson, whose struggles to build schools in Pakistan and Afghanistan are chronicled in ''Three Cups of Tea.'' But it struck us that women in particular were finding creative ways to help the world's most vulnerable people, many of them also women.
As a college sophomore, Jennifer Staple founded Unite for Sight, which has now provided eye care to more than one million people around the world. Kyle Zimmer, a corporate lawyer who tutored inner-city school children on the side, went on to create First Book, which over nearly 20 years has delivered more than 70 million books to book-deprived children in the United States and Canada. One of the world's largest grass-roots organizations is India's Self-Employed Women's Association, or SEWA. It was founded in 1972 by a lawyer named Ela Bhatt, who helped people living on the margins -- textile workers and later peasants and small vendors, among others -- by organizing them so that they could improve their health, start businesses and even bank among themselves.
Are these young idealists unsophisticated about what it takes to change the world? Yes, often. At first, they don't always appreciate the importance of listening to local people and bringing them into the management of projects, and they usually overestimate the odds of success. They also sometimes think it will be romantic to tackle social problems, a view that may fade when they've caught malaria.
After college at Notre Dame and before grad school at Harvard, Scharpf worked for three years in global pharmeceuticals and biotech. As soon as she finished her graduate programs at Harvard, she began harnessing her contacts to design a company that would manufacture inexpensive sanitary pads for Africa and Asia, to be distributed by women themselves on a franchise system. Soon Scharpf was in Rwanda, where schoolgirls told her they routinely stayed home during their periods to avoid the risk of humiliation, with one explaining: ''What if I get called to go to the blackboard and I have a stain on the back of my skirt?'' Scharpf found that the cheapest pads commercially available cost $1.10 for a pack of 10. In rural villages, women and girls used rags or sometimes bark or mud instead.
Commercial pads turned out to be expensive to manufacture largely because the raw materials were pricey, so Scharpf started from scratch. She recruited a team of like-minded wonks, and they consulted villagers, agriculture experts and professors of textile engineering. What is there that is really absorbent, widely available and cheap? The team came up with five finalists: cassava leaves, banana leaves, banana-tree trunk fibers, foam mattresses, textile scraps. ''We brought a blender to Rwanda and started blending things, boiling leaves from potato and cassava, things like that,'' Scharpf said. ''We would drop Coke on it to measure absorbency.'' That was when they had their eureka moment. ''We saw, hey, those banana fibers really slurp up the Coke!''
Scharpf accepted a $60,000 grant from Echoing Green, an organization that works like a venture-capital fund to finance people with great ideas. Later she won a social-entrepreneurship fellowship from Harvard Business School, and now her team has engineered a new sanitary pad that she hopes can transform life for women and girls in the developing world. It looks like a regular pad but is made chiefly out of banana-tree fibers, so it is sustainable and for the most part biodegradable. Best of all, it's cheap: a pack of 10 should retail for 75 cents or less.
Scharpf's organization, Sustainable Health Enterprises (or SHE), will begin manufacturing pads early next year in a tiny factory in Rwanda. It will be a pilot project, producing some 1,200 pads per hour, but once the kinks are worked out she hopes to have women in other countries franchise the system so that it spreads around the world. SHE has also taken on advocacy, calling on the Rwandan government to lift an 18 percent sales tax on feminine hygiene products so that they become more affordable. Awakened to the issue, the Rwandan Parliament recently appropriated $35,000 to pay for sanitary pads for impoverished girls who otherwise might miss school -- a small sum, but an acknowledgment that the problem is important and real. Some Rwandan women Scharpf has interviewed say that the attention has made a difference in their homes: their husbands are now more willing to allow them to spend money on pads.
Will banana-fiber sanitary pads succeed? No one knows. It is entirely possible that Scharpf will find that even if manufacturing goes smoothly -- a huge ''if'' -- there is simply not much of a market for sanitary pads in poor countries. Families may consider a 60- or 70-cent pack just as unaffordable as a $1.10 pack. Or suppose for a moment that everything goes perfectly, and pad franchises spread and families buy packets of pads for girls who are now missing school because of difficulties managing menstruation. Will those girls now stay in school? We can't be sure of that either.
One study in Nepal found that while girls appreciated help with hygiene, they weren't significantly more likely to attend school as a result. Menstrual cramps were more of an impediment than a lack of pads. And so aspirinlike medicines may need to be part of the solution as well. Research in Malawi by the Population Council suggests that bicycles would keep more kids in school than sanitary pads would. On the other hand, a study in Ghana suggests that supplying pads to rural girls there might reduce girls' absenteeism significantly.
In short, it's complicated. Scharpf is engaged in a noble experiment -- but entrepreneurs fail sometimes. And anybody wrestling with poverty at home or abroad learns that good intentions and hard work aren't enough. Helping people is hard.
It's also clear that sanitary pads won't save the world. In the best case, Sustainable Health Enterprises will spread and make it easier for girls to go to school and women to work -- but it will be only an incremental improvement. In the real world, that's usually how progress arrives (with screams of vexation along the way).
Fortunately, one factor buttressing D.I.Y. foreign aid is that altruism is contagious. In 2005, Lisa Shannon and her live-in boyfriend ran a stock photography business in Portland, Ore. But she was feeling a nagging emptiness, and then she happened to watch an ''Oprah'' show about women suffering from war and rape in eastern Congo. The episode featured Zainab Salbi, an Iraqi-American who started an organization called Women for Women International to help such survivors in places like Congo. Shannon was dazzled by Salbi and decided to pitch in herself by cajoling friends to sponsor her for a 30-mile run to raise money for women in Congo.
That first run was exhilarating, and left Shannon with the warm, fuzzy and novel feeling that she was really doing some good in the world. After sponsoring several Congolese women and reading their letters, she founded an organization called Run for Congo Women that held fund-raising runs across America and around the world. Eventually, she made a trip to Congo and had a joyous meeting with her new ''family.'' She was bowled over when one of the women she sponsored introduced her baby girl: the mother named the baby ''Lisa,'' after Shannon. She poured her soul into the cause, but her fiance grumbled as their business floundered. Finally he told her she had to choose: him or the Congolese women.
So in the end Shannon lost her business and her fiance. She is struggling with no income, because she pays herself no salary and passes on all the money she raises to Women for Women International. Devoting yourself to helping others may seem wonderfully glamorous -- until you're single, jobless and alone on a Saturday night. Shannon has taken in five roommates to share her house, and she saves pennies everywhere she can, but at some point she will become a pauper unless she finds a way of supporting herself.
I caught up with Shannon earlier this year in Congo. She took me to see the Congolese Lisa, and also to visit the hut of the Congolese woman she's closest to, Generose Namburho, a 40-year-old former nurse. Namburho is a stocky, self-assured woman who led us down a mud path, using a crutch to replace her missing right leg. An extremist Hutu militia invaded Namburho's home a few years ago, killed her husband, raped her and then hacked off her leg with a knife. Then the soldiers cooked the flesh from her leg and forced her children at gunpoint to eat it. When her beloved oldest son refused, they shot him in front of her.
Shannon paid $1,500 to buy this home for Namburho so she would have somewhere to live after she returned from a stay in the hospital. ''I believe God sent Lisa to rescue me from my misery,'' Namburho told me, as Shannon squirmed in embarrassment.
This year Shannon organized one of her runs right there in Congo. Shannon ran alongside Namburho, who limped along with her crutch. ''She said that if she could run on only one leg, then people would see that anybody could do this,'' Shannon said, adding: ''That was probably the best day of my life. It was fantastic. It's one thing to support women rebuilding their lives, and another to see them emerge as leaders. We raised about $50,000, and these are women earning maybe $20 a month, and they raised money for other Congolese women.''
Shannon has expanded her mandate this year, engaging in advocacy work to try to stop the rapes and killings in the first place. There are no simple solutions to the ongoing crisis in Congo, but Shannon has concentrated on embarrassing electronics makers, because they use parts that may contain minerals like tantalum from the area. Warlords sell these ''conflict minerals,'' and the idea is that if you can interrupt those supply chains, the warlords will find killing less profitable and may be more willing to negotiate.
By one estimate, auditing supply lines to assure an absence of conflict minerals could cost as little as a penny per finished cellphone, laptop or electronic camera. So early this year Shannon and other activists showed up at Intel's offices near her Oregon home with 45,000 pennies, representing the 45,000 people whose deaths can be attributed to the fighting in Congo each month, according to a mortality study by the International Rescue Committee. ''We said we'd be more than happy to pay a penny per product if that'll save lives,'' Shannon said. ''Nobody at Intel would talk with us. They just sent a security person out. They wouldn't accept the pennies.''
So Shannon jumped in her car with her mother, and they drove 11 hours down to Silicon Valley to the headquarters of Intel. There they made a similar pitch, and also visited Apple and Hewlett-Packard. Finally they dropped in on an Apple conference, and then an Apple Store opening in Washington. This was all quite uncomfortable for Shannon, who until then had been around like-minded activists who thought she was wonderful; now she was engaging in confrontational behavior and encountering people who thought she was naive, immature and boorish. One man told her to put down a sign with the word ''rape,'' because he found it offensive -- and all Shannon could think was that it should be even more offensive that so many Congolese women are raped.
In the end, Shannon's work -- along with that of many, many other activists -- seemed to make a difference. Some electronics companies became more aggressive about scrubbing supply chains of tainted minerals. Most important, Congress addressed the issue in this year's financial-reform law, which requires companies to disclose whether they use minerals from Congo or an adjoining country, and if they do use them, to reveal how the minerals were acquired. It's a step forward, and Shannon hopes that the result will be fewer Congolese enduring rapes and massacres.
It's striking that the most innovative activists aren't necessarily the ones with the most resources, or the best tools. If that were true, a team at the World Bank would have addressed the menstruation problem long ago, and G20 countries would be leading the effort to prevent Congolese warlords from monetizing their minerals. Rather, what often happens is that those best positioned to take action look the other way, and then the initiative is taken by the Scharpfs and Shannons of the world, who are fueled by some combustible mix of indignation and vision.
Maggie Doyne epitomizes this truth, for she began her philanthropic work as an 19-year-old financed by her baby-sitting savings. Yet she has somehow figured out how to run a sophisticated aid project in a remote area of Nepal.
Doyne grew up in New Jersey and excelled in high school -- top grades, editor of the yearbook, three-sport varsity athlete -- but felt burned out and unready to go to college when she graduated in 2005. So she took a ''gap year'' after high-school graduation and ended up in northern India, working with needy children. It was an impoverished area, yet Nepali refugees were pouring in and sleeping on the bare ground, fleeing civil war in their country. Doyne couldn't imagine what kind of conditions would be so bad that people would flee to where she was. So when the Maoist insurgency in Nepal calmed, she boarded a crammed public bus with a Nepali teenage girl to visit the girl's hometown. They got off, 48 hours and several bus breakdowns later, at the end of the bus line. Then Doyne and her friend hiked for another three days to the girl's home in the heartland of the Maoist insurgency.
It was a gorgeous Himalayan village, with a river running through it. But it was also ravaged by the war. Temples had been burned down, and the girl's home had been converted into a rebel camp. Most children couldn't afford school. In the cities, she had seen them working with hammers, breaking rocks into gravel to sell.
''The first little girl I met was Hema,'' Doyne remembers. Then 6 or 7 years old (few children know their precise age), Hema spent her time breaking rocks and scavenging garbage and had no chance to go to school. But she was radiant and adorable and always greeted Doyne in Nepali with a warm, ''Good morning, Sister!''
''Maybe I saw a piece of myself in her,'' said Doyne, who decided to take Hema under her wing and pay for her education: ''I knew I couldn't do anything about a million orphans, but what if I started with this girl?'' So she took Hema to school and paid $7 for the girl's school fees and another $8 for a uniform so that she could enter kindergarten.
''It became addictive,'' Doyne said. ''I said, if I can help one girl, why not 5? Why not 10? And along with scholarships, they needed the most basic things: food, shelter, clothing.'' Doyne found a ramshackle telephone ''booth'' -- actually, a mud hut -- where she could place an international call and telephoned her parents with a strange and urgent request: Can you wire me the money in my savings account? Doyne's parents were concerned about the choices she was making and the delay in going to college, but it was her money -- $5,000 made baby-sitting while in high school -- and they could hear the passion in her voice over a crackly line.
''It was like being hit by a stun gun,'' recalled Maggie's mother, Nancy Doyne, a real estate agent. ''But there's no stopping that child.'' Nancy Doyne worried about her daughter and had trouble sleeping when she thought of the perils of rural Nepal -- but she also knew: ''I had to cut my string to that child and let her fly.'' So the parents sent Maggie the money, and she bought land and began working with villagers to build a shelter for orphans.
Doyne returned to New Jersey and began to take odd jobs and proselytize for her shelter. People in her hometown thought that she was nuts, but in a benign way -- and they wrote checks. After a few months, when Doyne had raised $25,000, she moved back to Nepal to oversee construction of the shelter, called the Kopila Valley Children's Home.
The first resident was a girl named Nisha, a 7- or 8-year-old whose parents had died and who had been sold to be a domestic servant. Nisha turned out to be a prodigy and quickly picked up English. In Nisha's first year of school, she skipped three grade levels. Nisha would scavenge old textbooks and read them on her own, then come to Doyne with questions. And while Doyne herself now speaks fluent Nepali, American volunteers who work with her often use Nisha as their interpreter. Less than three years after Doyne took her in, Nisha is a poised sixth grader with immense promise.
The children's home was soon overflowing with orphans, and Doyne was desperate for money to expand it. At that moment she received a call from CosmoGirl magazine. Now, Doyne never wears so much as lipstick in Nepal. If there's enough water, she showers -- and if there isn't, she splashes water on her face, brushes her teeth, puts her hair in a ponytail and is ready for another day. Sometimes she misses dating, but she has no boyfriend and has put her romantic life completely aside. ''My main concern beauty-wise,'' she says, ''is trying to keep the lice out of my hair.''
But now CosmoGirl was on the phone, telling her that she had won a $20,000 prize for her work, financed by Maybelline. Doyne could now pay to add second and third floors to her shelter and bring in more homeless orphans. ''It gets even better!'' the woman on the phone went on excitedly. ''We're going to whisk you away to New York for a Maybelline makeover!''
Once Doyne expanded the children's home (and had her makeover, gaining false eyelashes and blond highlights-- all very briefly), she began to focus on education. Last year, she won a $100,000 grand prize in a contest run by www.DoSomething.org, and that money provided the wherewithal to start a new school that she had long dreamed of. An Australian architect who met Doyne on Facebook flew to Nepal to design the buildings, and the project began taking shape. The school now has classes from kindergarten through sixth grade, as well as a library, a cafeteria and an outdoor auditorium. The plan is to expand it one year at a time until it is a high school as well.
Having become in effect a principal who never went to college, Doyne was passionate that the school would be academically outstanding. She recruited teachers who would forswear corporal punishment and encourage creativity rather than rote learning. The entire region has taken heed of Doyne's school project, with officials pleading for their children's admission. Some upper-caste parents were aghast that low-caste mothers would be preparing meals for upper-caste children, but they bit their lips and were silent in the hope that their children could attend. A one-hour enrollment session seeking just 40 children was swamped by 500 kids pleading for admission.
The school opened with 220 students and will soon expand to 300. The plan is to offer health care and dental care as well, starting with deworming the children -- because their load of intestinal worms leaves them anemic. A $300 donation covers a child's educational costs for a year at the school, including health and dental care. Doyne is also working on a vocational element, training kids to raise livestock for a living, to repair bicycles or to develop other skills that will give them steady incomes. The school is coed, but the girls who attend are particularly important to Doyne, for two reasons. One is that uneducated girls are particularly at risk of exploitation. The other is that there's considerable evidence that educating girls is one of the best investments available in the developing world, because it leads to lower birth rates and a more skilled and productive labor force.
As for her own needs, Doyne is blase. When she had an infected tooth in a remote village far from any doctor, and her face swelled up so that she couldn't even see, a local man obligingly took a chisel and pliers and pulled the tooth -- without any painkiller. Regarding education, Doyne is thinking about earning a college degree by correspondence someday (my hunch is that she'll have an honorary doctorate before she has a B.A.). Listening to her chatter about her shelter and school, describing her hopes to replicate her model in other countries, it's easy to forget something quite extraordinary: she's still only 23.
It's fair to object that activists like Doyne are accomplishing results that, however noble, are minuscule. Something like 101 million children aren't attending primary school around the world, so 220 kids in Doyne's school constitute the teensiest drop in the bucket. The larger problem can be solved only if governments make education a top priority (which they haven't), just as ending the wars in Congo may require the concerted action of states. Well-meaning individuals like Doyne help at the edges but don't fundamentally change the nature of the challenge; indeed, charitable construction of schools and hospitals may sometimes free up governments in poor countries to use their money to buy weapons instead.
All that is true -- but it's equally true that if you happen to be that drop in the bucket, Doyne is transforming your life. And afterward, you may become an education advocate as well, transforming other people's lives. As Doyne herself puts it, ''If your own children were born orphans in Nepal, you wouldn't wait for the U.N or the government to do something about it while they were hungry and cold and breaking rocks by the side of a riverbed.''
Of course, not everyone is ready to move off to Nepal and exchange bar-hopping for lice-minimization. Many people want to connect to a cause larger than themselves, but they are busy and juggling priorities, have limited time and don't know quite what to do. There's a market failure there: so many people who would like to help, and so many people who would benefit from that help, but there's a shortage of channels to connect them. (On my blog, nytimes.com/ontheground, I've listed some practical ideas for how to help as well as contact information for organizations working at the grass roots -- including those mentioned in this article.)
The challenge is to cultivate an ideology of altruism, to spread a culture of social engagement -- and then to figure out what people can do at a practical level. Peter Singer, a Princeton University professor, is the philosopher of this effort, and it has a thousand foot soldiers. In Seattle, for example, a couple named Eugene and Minhee Cho are encouraging middle-class Americans to think of themselves as philanthropists, every bit as much as Bill Gates is. Eugene is a minister and Minhee a stay-at-home mom who looks after their three children but recently returned to grad school. They were moved by the suffering they'd seen around the world, but they weren't well off and didn't know what they could do to make a difference. Then Eugene happened to take a trip to Burma, visited a school and saw how tiny sums could keep children in class. ''That kind of wrecked my life,'' Eugene says, laughing.
After the trip, they resolved that for one year they would donate all their earnings -- Eugene's salary of $68,000 -- to Burmese education and other charities to show that you don't have to be a zillionaire to be generous. Later, they founded One Day's Wages, which asks people to donate a single day's pay -- 0.4 percent of annual income -- to various causes and organizations that they have vetted and put on their Web site. Forsaking a year's salary was a romantic idea when the Chos conceived it, but life without paychecks turned out to be brutal, even humiliating. They exhausted their life's savings, and Eugene sold his beloved car. With several months to go, they had to sublet their home and become homeless -- taking their children and moving onto friends' couches. ''That was the most painful decision I've had to make as a father,'' Eugene says.
The One Day's Wages campaign has proved more practicable. In the past year, the Chos have raised more than $400,000, all of which will be forwarded to the organizations they work with. About 60 percent of the donors have been women or girls, they think, the youngest being a 6-year-old who gave up her birthday presents and started a birthday campaign on the onedayswages.org Web site. ''The aim is to inspire the everyday person,'' Eugene says, summing up the rise of do-it-yourself foreign aid. ''We're trying to communicate that you don't have to be a rock star or a millionaire to make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One (or 33) at a Time Students from the school that Maggie Doyne built in Nepal. (MM48)
Breaking Ground: This page: The Kopila Valley Children's Home in Nepal. Right: Elizabeth Scharpf with the banana-tree fi bers that will be used to make sanitary pads for women in Rwanda. (MM50
MM51)
 Purposeful Strides Lisa Shannon, who started Run for Congo Women, in New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALESSANDRA PETLIN) (MM52) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NEPAL (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); RWANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



672 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Over Succession, And Debt, Cloud Megachurch

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
GARDEN GROVE, Calif. -- The 10,664 windows did not get washed this year at the Crystal Cathedral, the iconic glass church founded by the Rev. Robert H. Schuller, one of the original religious broadcasters. Volunteers are tending the church's 40 landscaped acres, now that the gardeners have been laid off. And its renowned Christmas pageant -- with live camels and horses, and angels flying overhead on cables -- has been canceled for now.
The empire that Mr. Schuller built may be in jeopardy, tarnished by an unseemly family feud and a $43 million debt that even by megachurch standards is serious.
When the Crystal Cathedral, which many church historians call the nation's first modern megachurch, filed for bankruptcy protection last week, Sheila Schuller Coleman, the senior pastor and Mr. Schuller's eldest daughter, blamed the bad economy. 
But the church was in trouble long before the economic downturn, according to church insiders and family members interviewed last week. It was already suffering from the botched succession of Mr. Schuller, one too many vanity building projects and changes in the religious broadcasting industry.
When Mr. Schuller announced in 2006 that he was turning over the pulpit to his only son, the Rev. Robert A. Schuller, the church was already carrying a huge debt from its last lavish building project. But in a little more than two years, the son was pushed out before he ever really took the reins, and some of his sisters and their husbands stepped in.
The family feud left the church without clear leadership, just when its programs badly needed a makeover to attract a new generation of followers.
At stake is the legacy of the senior Mr. Schuller, who at 84 is still occasionally preaching his brand of upbeat, inspirational Christianity. His Sunday program, ''Hour of Power,'' has been broadcast for 40 years and was the nation's most-watched weekly religious program for more than a decade. Unlike other religious broadcasters, Mr. Schuller largely steered clear of politics, and avoided the sexual and financial scandals that brought down competitors like Jimmy Swaggart.
Until now, the younger Mr. Schuller, pained by the rift with his family, has avoided speaking publicly about what happened. But in a lengthy interview this week in Los Angeles, he explained the sequence of events, later confirmed by others, that preceded the current turmoil.
''It boiled down to, they weren't ready to accept my leadership,'' he said of his relatives and some of the other board members of the cathedral. ''And had they been, they wouldn't be where they are today.''
Both the elder Mr. Schuller and Ms. Schuller Coleman declined all interview requests last week, said the church's spokesman John Charles.
Handing down leadership from founding father to son is common in the world of celebrity ministry. The offspring of Billy Graham, Oral Roberts, Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell have all inherited pieces of their father's empires. But few can remember a succession as messy as the one at the Crystal Cathedral.
''Making transitions in any congregation, from one pastor to another, and especially from a founding pastor, is always terribly difficult,'' said the Rev. Wesley Granberg-Michaelson, a former board member and leader of the Reformed Church in America, the mainline Protestant denomination to which the Crystal Cathedral belongs.
''It's so important that transitions be done well -- and when they're not done well, it can harm ministry,'' he said. ''This ministry has touched the lives of millions. There are few like it. That just makes the situation they presently face such a deep tragedy.''
The younger Mr. Schuller, 56, said he was groomed to succeed his father from early on. He has four sisters; Ms. Schuller Coleman is the oldest, he was the second-born. Before he was 20, he began preaching in his father's church. For many years he was the senior pastor of a church in San Juan Capistrano, Calif., affiliated with the Crystal Cathedral (a property the cathedral sold in May for $22.5 million to help reduce debt). And from 2004 to 2006, his father introduced him to donors at lunches and dinners around the country as his chosen successor.
But by the time the younger Mr. Schuller took over in 2006, the church's broadcast audience was shrinking, eclipsed by preachers with a more contemporary format, like Joel Osteen at Lakewood Church in Houston, who leans more heavily on self-help than Scripture.
Mr. Schuller said that when he came on board, a meticulous effort to straighten out the membership rolls found only 900 to 1,100 regular congregants at Crystal Cathedral -- which would mean that it was about 1,500 people short of even qualifying as a megachurch. (The church spokesman, Mr. Charles, said Mr. Schuller's figures were misleadingly low because he counted only those who attended every week. He said the church currently has about 10,000 congregation members.)
Mr. Schuller said he also inherited a sizable debt. His father, he said, had believed that striking new buildings attracted donors who would continue giving. It worked with the church's original building, designed by the midcentury modern architect Richard Neutra, which enabled Mr. Schuller to preach from a balcony to people sitting in their cars in the parking lot below. It worked with the Crystal Cathedral sanctuary dedicated in 1980, designed by the famed architect Philip Johnson and quickly paid off by thousands of donors who had their names inscribed on windows, seats and even the struts that support the glass.
But the strategy failed with the church's ''welcoming center,'' designed by Richard Meier. It was finished in 2003, and when some major donations fell through, the church still owed $40 million for it, according to the younger Mr. Schuller.
Meanwhile, the audience for ''Hour of Power'' -- who provided the bulk of the ministry's income -- was shrinking. At its peak in the early 1980s, before cable TV became dominant, it had about two million viewers on 190 stations. Now the audience is down to about one million in the United States. With millions more globally, the show is carried primarily on cable and satellite.
But there was an unspoken problem facing the ministry. Where the elder Mr. Schuller exuded charisma and optimism, his son -- looking like a Southern California golf pro, tall, fit and tanned, with a full head of brown hair -- was more subdued and businesslike. Several insiders said in interviews that the older Mr. Schuller and his wife, Arvella, badly wanted their son to inherit the ministry, but were never completely convinced that he was up to it.
''You cannot replace Dr. Schuller,'' said the spokesman, Mr. Charles. ''It's like you cannot replace Billy Graham. I think he was put in a hard position.''
The younger Mr. Schuller envisioned using new technologies to expand the ministry's capacities and reach a younger audience. The average viewer of ''Hour of Power'' is a 53-year-old woman. But some board members saw his high-tech strategies as vague and distracting.
Things fell apart when the younger Mr. Schuller tried to institute basic good governance rules used by many nonprofit organizations. He wanted to remove anyone with a conflict of interest from the board. That meant unseating some of his sisters and their husbands as well as his parents, who were also employees.
The coup came in July 2008. Mr. Schuller said he was told his preaching was ''not anointed.'' A three-person Office of the President -- two of whose members were his brothers-in-law -- was created to run the cathedral. He was given the limited role of pastor of the local congregation, and removed from preaching on ''Hour of Power.'' He quit.
''When you mix faith and fame and family, there's room for a really toxic dynamic,'' said Robert A. Schuller's daughter, Angie Schuller Wyatt, who is 32. She has degrees in ministry and counseling, but has intentionally worked in churches other than the Crystal Cathedral and is starting spiritualwellness.com.
The lead preaching role on the ''Hour of Power'' broadcast is now filled by a revolving cast of guest preachers -- the elder Mr. Schuller, Ms. Schuller Coleman and a son-in-law. In 2009, Ms. Schuller Coleman was made the senior pastor of the Crystal Cathedral.
The younger Mr. Schuller is writing a book, ''When You're Down to Nothing, God's Up to Something,'' and creating a new Christian media network with his son-in-law, Chris Wyatt. They acquired AmericanLife TV from the Unification Church, and plan ''family friendly programming,'' including R-rated movies edited for a G-rated audience.
They soon plan to broadcast a new preaching program featuring a member of the third generation of Schullers in ministry: Robert V. Schuller, the 29-year-old grandson of the founder of Crystal Cathedral and the son of Robert A. Schuller. The grandson leads a growing congregation geared toward a younger crowd, which meets in rented space in an American Legion hall.
Many people involved with the Crystal Cathedral, asked about Robert V. Schuller, immediately brighten and say he has his grandfather's gifts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AILING EMPIRE: The Crystal Cathedral, a church founded by the Rev. Robert H. Schuller, the religious broadcaster. Last week, it filed for bankruptcy protection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE INHERITANCE: The Rev. Robert H. Schuller, above, in 2000 at the Crystal Cathedral, a 40-acre church empire he started in Garden Grove, Calif. His son, the Rev. Robert A. Schuller, left, was to succeed him but resigned in a dispute. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN T. BARR/CRYSTAL CATHEDRAL
MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)
 THE VISITORS: Korean ministers and their families stopped by the Crystal Cathedral on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); FAMILY (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); GARDENING (79%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); MAMMALS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CHRISTMAS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); LAYOFFS (57%); HISTORY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



673 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Pact to Give Markets More Sway on Rates

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Moving to shore up the ''fragile and uneven'' recovery, officials from the world's 20 biggest economies promised Saturday to refrain from weakening their currencies, agreeing to let the markets exert more influence in setting foreign exchange rates.
The officials also decided to give fast-growing countries a greater say at the International Monetary Fund, which monitors nations' fiscal and monetary policies, an acknowledgment that the fund's credibility required more representation from these nations. They also strengthened the I.M.F.'s role in assessing whether G-20 members were meeting their commitments. 
The finance ministers and central bankers were at a two-day meeting in Gyeongju, South Korea, and their actions represented another step in the effort to bridge the diverging priorities of the leading economies and ease the strain of simmering disputes.
The intense talks -- built largely around an agenda the Americans brought to the meeting -- yielded more consensus than many officials had expected. In general, the United States refrained from putting more public pressure on China to revalue its currency, preferring instead to emphasize the benefits of reducing trade imbalances.
Seeking to find common ground on currency valuation, officials agreed to ''move toward more market-determined exchange rate systems that reflect underlying economic fundamentals.'' And they pledged to ''refrain from competitive devaluation of currencies'' -- an effort to calm anxiety over a wave of protectionism in which countries would weaken their currencies to bolster their own exports.
Threats of such a ''currency war'' have unsettled markets and threatened to hinder a flagging global recovery.
The language adopted Saturday was the strongest yet from the G-20, which operates through consensus and peer pressure but lacks binding authority, following warnings by the United States that rapidly developing countries were trying to keep their currencies from rising, setting off a ''damaging cycle'' of ''competitive nonappreciation.''
For their part, the richest countries, like the United States and Britain, both with large deficits, agreed to be ''vigilant against excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates.''
On the issue of trade, the United States failed to secure support for a numerical limit on the surplus or deficit of the nations' current account balances, the broadest measure of a country's trade and investment. The Americans had proposed that surplus and deficits be reduced to less than 4 percent of gross domestic product by 2015.
Such a deal would have obliged two export giants, China and Germany, to stimulate domestic consumption and rely less on foreign consumers. China in particular would have faced new pressure to let its currency, the renminbi, rise against the dollar.
Instead, G-20 members pledged to ''pursue the full range of policies conducive to reducing excessive imbalances.''
That language was not as firm as Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner had sought, but he called the pledge a step forward.
''The most important thing we achieved is agreement on a framework for curbing excess trade imbalances in the future,'' Mr. Geithner said. On Sunday, he will make a previously unannounced trip to Qingdao, China, where he was to meet with Wang Qishan, the Chinese vice premier for economic issues.
The French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, said that Mr. Geithner ''probably would have liked specific targets,'' but Olli Rehn, Europe's economic and monetary affairs commissioner, said that ''setting specific numerical targets would have been easily counterproductive.''
Germany, Russia and Italy were among the countries that opposed the 4 percent proposal, officials said.
One significant development was the agreement on changes to how the I.M.F. is run. The G-20 agreed to transfer more than 6 percent of voting power within the I.M.F. to ''dynamic emerging-market and developing countries'' like Brazil and India by the fall of 2012.
''The legitimacy of the I.M.F. is increasing,'' Pranab Mukherjee, the Indian finance minister, said approvingly.
China will become the fund's third-largest shareholder, behind the United States and Japan but ahead of Germany, France and Britain. Europe agreed to surrender two seats on the 24-member executive board.
As part of a package deal, the G-20 agreed to double the I.M.F.'s quotas, which determine how much each country contributes to -- and may borrow from -- the institution. The quotas presently total about $340 billion.
The G-20 also continued to increase the role of the I.M.F. as a watchdog over its member economies in the hope that it might help arbitrate thorny trade and currency disputes. Officials agreed to empower the I.M.F. to investigate the ''persistently large imbalances'' and determine ''the root causes'' of why adjustment had been so hard to achieve.
Like the G-20, the I.M.F. cannot compel members to act, but its findings carry great weight.
Yoon Jeung-hyun, the South Korean finance minister, said the agreement would help remove ''uncertainty in the global markets such as the foreign exchange rate issues.'' He added, ''This will put an end to the controversy over foreign exchange rates.''
George Osborne, Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer, was not quite so optimistic, though he praised the accord, saying ''this language calms everything down and gives us a route map for resolving these imbalances.''
Not everyone was happy with the Americans. Several officials expressed concerns to Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the Fed would pour more money into the economy to stop inflation from falling and to stimulate growth, thus weakening the dollar.
''Excessive, permanent money creation in my opinion is an indirect manipulation of an exchange rate,'' the German economy minister, Rainer Bruderle, warned, in effect accusing the United States of the same type of currency weakening for which China has been criticized. At a news conference, Mr. Geithner dismissed the anxiety, saying, ''The policy of the United States is to support a strong dollar.''
Nevertheless, the Fed's policy is sure to come up again next month when world leaders, including President Obama, meet at G-20 talks in Seoul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



674 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CITIZENSHIP FOR STUDENTS UNITED STATES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2926 words

HEADLINE: Coming Out Illegal

BYLINE: By MAGGIE JONES. 
Maggie Jones is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Leslie, a history major at the University of California at Los Angeles and an aspiring marathon runner with three part-time jobs and plans for grad school, keeps a neatly folded dark blue T-shirt in her closet among her jeans and her U.C.L.A. Bruins sweatshirt. Like an intimate detail, she reveals it cautiously, wearing it to campus events but not on the streets of Orange County; to a rally with a group of friends, but not alone on a crosstown bus. A senior at U.C.L.A. and the only child of a single working mother, Leslie is brave but not reckless: in the wrong place under the wrong circumstances, the T-shirt's two words across the chest -- ''I'm Undocumented'' -- are provocative enough to upend her life.
For most of her 22 years, Leslie -- whose only memory of coming to the United States with her mother when she was 6 is of the bright lights along the L.A. freeway -- kept her immigration status secret from even close friends. She knew that certain life experiences and rites of passage were out of her reach: visiting her grandparents in Mexico; voting; getting a driver's license. 
Even though she was an advanced-placement student, she feared college also might not be possible. During her senior year of high school, when she confided her immigration status to a guidance counselor -- the first adult outside her family she told -- the counselor admonished Leslie that not only was she ineligible for college, but had she known Leslie was illegal she never would have placed her in AP classes.
I met Leslie, who asked that I use only her first name, in August at her mother's house in Pasadena. It was a rare summer day off from her jobs cleaning an apartment building, waitressing, helping her mother with her six-days-a-week housekeeping jobs along Pasadena's ''Millionaire's Row.'' Leslie greeted me at the front door, dressed in a pressed denim shirt cinched at the waist with a wide belt, shorts and strappy sandals. She showed me around the small two-bedroom house, a step up from the one-bedroom converted garage she and her mother lived in previously. The secondhand TV in the living room, along with Leslie's bed and desk, were all gifts from families whose houses her mother cleans, as was the Chanel blush on her desk. ''I would never buy Chanel for myself,'' Leslie said, laughing at the extravagance.
Initially shy and sometimes self-deprecating, Leslie is also warm, charmingly frank and girlish, with cheeks that easily flush and bangs that she brushes from her forehead as she talks. She is also, by necessity and by experience, resourceful and intrepid.
Later in her senior year of high school, Leslie learned that, in fact, she could go to college and that California law AB 540 allows undocumented California students to pay in-state rather than out-of-state tuition; California is one of 11 states with such a law. (Earlier this month, Georgia banned undocumented immigrants from its most selective public colleges.)
In Leslie's case it cuts an unthinkable $33,000 a year down to a daunting but within-the-realm-of-possibility tuition of roughly $10,000. But because she is undocumented, she is not eligible for the myriad federal and state aid programs that make college feasible for many working- and middle-class families. No Pell grants, no work-study programs.
Leslie's ''Undocumented'' T-shirt, along with the rallies she attends and the lobbying she has done in Washington and Sacramento, is part of an effort to change her and other undocumented students' lives through what's known as the Dream Act. The federal bill, a version of which was introduced in Congress in 2001, would create a pathway to legal residency for immigrants who arrived in this country as children, have been in the United States for at least five years and have graduated from a U.S. high school or obtained a G.E.D. To gain status, they would have to finish two years of college or military service. Supporters argue that the legislation benefits ambitious, academically successful students who will go on to professional careers. Without the Dream Act, many of those same young people will be stuck, much like their parents, in the underground economy.
Some 825,000 immigrants are likely to become legal residents if the Dream Act passes, according to the Migration Policy Institute, a research group. But Steven A. Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors strict enforcement of immigration laws and opposes the Dream Act, argues that the legislation would create another avenue for immigration fraud and added incentive for immigrants to come to the United States. He noted that it rewards illegal behavior and takes college spots and financial aid from students who are legal residents.
Nonetheless, the Dream Act has some bipartisan support, and in this political climate, it's one of the only immigration bills with any shot of passing. Last month, Senator Richard J. Durbin, the Illinois Democrat and chief sponsor of the bill, planned to attach the Dream Act as an amendment to the defense authorization bill, which included the controversial repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell.'' The package stalled when supporters were unable to muster the 60 votes needed to overcome a Republican filibuster. Among Dream Act opponents is Senator John McCain, who co-sponsored a version of the Dream Act in 2007. This year, during which he faced a tough-on-immigration candidate in the primaries, he said he would not support the Dream Act without tighter border controls. Meanwhile, Durbin plans to push it as a stand-alone bill, either in the coming lame-duck session or next year.
In the midst of the political wrangling, the Dream Act advocates -- most of them in their early to mid-20s -- have become the most outspoken and daring wing of the immigration movement. Borrowing tactics from the civil rights and gay rights movements, in the last year they have orchestrated dozens of demonstrations, hunger strikes, ''coming out'' events -- publicly revealing their undocumented status -- and sit-ins in federal offices, risking both arrest and deportation.
Several of these events -- like much of the movement -- have been largely powered by women, according to many advocates. At recent sit-ins, two-thirds of those arrested were women, including founders and leaders of their local Dream organizations. Women have also stuck with the movement long after many men have dropped out or burned out. Lizbeth Mateo, co-founder of Dream Team Los Angeles, said she and other leaders tried to get more undocumented men to participate in a sit-in in McCain's Arizona office this year. ''We wanted to balance it out,'' she said. But with one exception, the men said they were not ready.
Many of these women are daughters of nannies, housekeepers, landscapers -- a generation of immigrants who tended to keep a low profile. In contrast, their daughters have been schooled in a more vocal American culture. ''We did what we were supposed to do,'' Fabiola, an undocumented activist and a recent U.C.L.A. graduate who came to the United States from Mexico as a toddler, told me. ''We are the cream of the crop. But because of something we had no choice in, our entire lives are on hold.'' Living in the shadows, she said, is no longer acceptable.
The apartment where Leslie and four other students live during the school year is a 10-minute walk from campus and is well known among U.C.L.A.'s undocumented population. It's called the Cabin because of its knotty-pine walls, which make the rooms feel both dark and rustic. The students pay $250 each for the 700-square-foot apartment. In many ways it is typical college housing: an Indian tapestry covers one wall, and flimsy curtains hang on some windows. On the kitchen countertop, cereal, Coffee-Mate and Cheetos Puffs share space with the staple of the college diet, ramen noodles. Up a set of stairs is the sleeping loft, with one small desk and five beds, leaving just enough remaining room to negotiate getting to and from the apartment's one bathroom.
Before moving in, Leslie, like most of her Cabin roommates, commuted to save money on housing. She caught a 7 a.m. bus, the first of two that would take her two hours to U.C.L.A. from East Los Angeles. At night, she returned home again, sometimes with her friend Ilse. The bus, crowded with nannies and housekeepers traveling home from L.A.'s wealthy Westside, drove along Sunset Boulevard, passing Bel Air and Beverly Hills and the 20-foot hedges and equally tall gates guarding mansions, making the ''Private Entry'' signs seem redundant. For Ilse, whose family is also from Mexico, it was a metaphor for her struggles to pay for school and to be part of the college experience. ''It was like everything was telling us to keep out,'' she said.
When two spots at the Cabin opened 18 months ago, ''it was like coming home,'' Ilse said. Leslie felt like a ''normal'' college student for the first time, walking to campus just before class, staying in the library as late as she needed.
Among their Cabin roommates last year were Fabiola, who graduated a few months ago in international development studies. Self-possessed and pretty, Fabiola has a maternal quality that draws friends to confide their worries. Both she and another roommate, Andrea, are the Cabin elders, having clocked more than three years in the apartment. (This summer, a new roommate, Lizeth, moved in to take Fabiola's place.) A biology major originally from Mexico, Andrea is a self-described ''music geek'' who played in her high school's drum line and ran a radio show at U.C.L.A.
More than anyone in the Cabin, Andrea knows what it is like to need a bed. Before moving in, she spent many nights floating around the campus to avoid commuting home. She showered in a U.C.L.A. gym; kept a blanket and a change of clothes in her locker. She slept on couches in the library; on the floor of a friend's apartment; on a wide windowsill in a student activities office. She now leaves clean blankets on the Cabin couches during exams so commuters have a place to crash.
''Some people bond over music,'' Ilse told me one morning. ''We bond over this. You realize how many people have gone through what you've gone through.'' In the Cabin, no one asks you why you don't have a driver's license or why you have to take a semester off to earn tuition money.
Each Cabin roommate has also played a leadership role in a U.C.L.A. group that is instrumental in the Dream movement. When it started in 2003, Ideas -- an acronym for Improving Dreams, Equality, Access and Success -- was a support group for a handful of undocumented students sharing tips on finding free meals and places to sleep. Now Ideas -- Fabiola was an early chairwoman, and Leslie is in charge of fund-raising for scholarships -- has a Web site, organizes Dream Act rallies and, through an annual conference that Andrea started, trains hundreds of U.C.L.A. and other students on grass-roots organizing, lobbying and working with the news media to promote the Dream Act.
Undocumented students often describe their early lives as molded by fear. They had nightmares about immigration agents showing up at the front door. They watched parents or older siblings be deported. So when a group of activists decided for the first time this year to purposefully risk arrest and deportation for the Dream Act, it was a bold move -- some called it impetuous -- and one that played directly into some students' deepest anxieties.
''You don't wake up one day and say, 'This is a good day to get arrested,' '' said Yahaira Carrillo, who is 25 and founded the Kansas/Missouri Dream Alliance and has traveled all over the country speaking, lobbying and organizing for the legislation. When I called her several weeks ago, Carrillo, who hoped to join the U.S. Marines but can't without legal status, was in Kansas cleaning someone's house, trying to raise money to finish college.
Last winter Carrillo and other Dream leaders talked about ways to ignite the movement. Many activists, some of whom had worked on the Dream Act for more than a half-dozen years, were increasingly frustrated. They had vigorously campaigned for Obama and counted on him to usher in the legislation early in his presidency. Now, more than a year later, they felt the urgency to push their message harder, to move the Dream Act forward.
Dream leaders talked about Martin Luther King and sit-ins at lunch counters. They consulted with immigration attorneys about the risks of being arrested and deported: there were no guarantees. ''When you've been doing everything else you think you can do, it's the final step,'' Carrillo said. If deported, she would return to Mexico, a country she left when she was 7.
In May, Carrillo traveled to Tucson with three other Dream leaders: Lizbeth Mateo, the co-founder of Dream Team L.A.; Tania Unzueta, a Chicago advocate who helped jump-start the national ''coming out'' campaign; and Mohammad Abdollahi, a co-founder of DreamActivist.org, a resource for undocumented students. In Tucson, Raul Alcaraz, an activist who is a legal resident, joined the group, which became known as the Dream Act 5.
Around 11:30 on the morning of May 17, the 56th anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education, while dozens of Dream Act supporters rallied outside, the five activists walked into John McCain's office, dressed in matching royal blue graduation gowns and caps. (McCain was in Washington.)They sat down in the reception area under an American flag, and for more than six hours they refused to leave, calling for McCain to support the Dream Act and the bill's passage.
Around 6 p.m., Tucson police officers arrested everyone in the group except Unzueta, who had agreed to serve as the group's spokeswoman. The activists spent that night at the Pima County jail, before Carrillo, Mateo and Abdollahi were transferred to an Immigration and Customs Enforcement processing facility. Carrillo's heart sank when she and Mateo were led into a windowless, concrete room with cement benches and a heavy metal door that shut behind them. Over the next several hours, Carrillo said, immigration officials repeatedly told her and Mateo that they would be sent to an immigration detention center, a fate undocumented immigrants assiduously try to avoid.
Then, after eight hours and with no explanation, Carrillo told me, they were released. Immigration and Customs Enforcement gave them orders to report to immigration agents every 30 days and to return for a hearing, the date of which has still not been set. While the Obama administration is deporting a record number of immigrants convicted of crimes, the Department of Homeland Security has so far spared undocumented youth who have been arrested during Dream Act protests. Still, the case against Carrillo, Mateo and Abdollahi has not been dismissed.
Yet the Dream Act 5 did succeed in at least some of its goals. While McCain has not changed his position, the sit-in received national and international media attention. Other youth activists, emboldened by the Arizona group, have orchestrated sit-ins and hunger strikes around the country, including in North Carolina, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington.
As for Carrillo, she confronted a fear that pervades undocumented immigrants' lives. ''It's always, 'You shouldn't go here; you shouldn't go there.' I can be deported any time a cop stops me for something,'' she said. ''If it happened to me for a sit-in, at least I would have had some say in my life.''
Next June, among the thousands of graduates in U.C.L.A.'s class of 2011, around 30 will be undocumented students, including Leslie, Ilse and Andrea. During the commencement ceremony, the women will move their cap tassels from right to left. They will listen to commencement speeches with phrases like ''moving forward'' and ''a new future.'' They will know that many of the words do not apply to them. ''It feels like a slam,'' Ilse said. ''It's not closure for me. It doesn't promote me.''
Like Ilse, Leslie will probably move home after her final quarter, losing the protection a university offers, where it is safe to take risks -- to say, ''I'm undocumented.'' Leslie expects to work full time cleaning houses and waitressing. She says she hopes to earn a private scholarship for grad school, which would buy time for the Dream Act to pass, after which she could be employed legally. She'd like to be a social worker or a counselor or a lawyer for a nonprofit. For now, she knows the reality: many undocumented U.C.L.A. graduates are short-order cooks, waitresses, baby-sitters, doing jobs for which they do not need a high-school diploma.
Still, Leslie says she doesn't feel completely powerless. On the morning of the Senate Dream Act vote in late September, she was getting ready to head downtown to hoist Dream Act banners above the 101 Freeway with other activists. Before leaving her house that morning, she sent me an e-mail: ''I just wanted to let you know I'm wearing my 'I'm Undocumented' shirt right now,'' she wrote. ''As I was putting it on, I remembered telling you about my fears when it comes to wearing this shirt, but I didn't feel like that today. I feel like I am finally taking control of my identity. ''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Oct. 24 about college students' making public their status as illegal immigrants misspelled the address of a Web site that acts as a resource for students. It is DreamActivist.org, not DreamActivists.org

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brave but Not Reckless: Leslie, an undocumented student attending U.C.L.A. (MM36-MM37)
 Undocumented, and Out: The immigration advocates of ''the Cabin'' (from left): Fabiola, Ilse, Andrea and Leslie. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIERNEY GEARON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (92%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010



675 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Is Poised To Seize House, If Not Senate

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A costly and polarizing Congressional campaign heads into its closing week with Republicans in a strong position to win the House but with Democrats maintaining a narrow edge in the battle for the Senate, according to a race-by-race review and lawmakers and strategists on both sides.
President Obama campaigned for a fourth consecutive day on Saturday as the Democratic Party threw its full weight into preventing a defeat of historic proportions in an election shaped by a sour economy, intense debate over the White House's far-reaching domestic agenda and the rise of a highly energized grass-roots conservative movement.
But Republicans have placed enough seats into play that Democrats now seem likely to give up many of the gains they made in the last two election cycles, leaving Washington on the brink of a substantial shift in the balance of power. 
The final nine days of the midterm election are unfolding across a wide landscape, with several dozen House races close enough to break either way, determining whether the election produces a Republican wave that reaches deep into the Democratic ranks. In the Senate, Democrats were bracing to lose seats, but the crucial contests remained highly fluid as Republicans struggled to pull away in several Democratic-leaning states.
The candidates, political parties and a torrent of outside groups made fresh strategic investments and pumped yet another multimillion-dollar wave of television advertising into House races across the country, hoping to press their advantages across a battleground that has expanded to nearly 100 districts.
In the House, 28 Democratic seats are either leaning Republican or all but lost to Republican candidates, according to the latest ratings of Congressional races by The New York Times, while 40 seats held by Democrats are seen as tossups. To win a majority, Republicans need to pick up a net of 39 seats; to reach that threshold they will probably have to win at least 44 seats now held by Democrats to offset a handful of projected Democratic victories in Republican-held districts.
In the Senate, races for Democratic-held seats in California, Colorado, Illinois, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Washington and West Virginia are rated as tossups by The Times. Republicans seem assured of taking Democratic seats in other states, including Arkansas and Indiana, but must win at least five of the seven most competitive remaining races to seize a majority, and Democrats improved their standing in at least three of those states last week.
In the final week of campaigning, Democrats are planning new investments to protect Senator Patty Murray in Washington, while Republicans are strengthening their effort to defeat Senator Barbara Boxer of California.
Candidates began closing arguments on Saturday, reprising divisions over Mr. Obama's economic stimulus bill and clashing over private investment accounts for Social Security, an extension of the Bush-era tax cuts and a host of domestic policies.
While the outlook is grim for Democrats in the House, according to interviews with candidates, pollsters and consultants involved in races, the field remains volatile and strong voter turnout could save some seats. Yet even by conservative calculations, Republicans are well within reach of winning back a majority they lost four years ago.
''There are Democratic candidates who still appear to be in the race, but our candidates are delivering the fatal blow,'' said Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''If we look all across the country, we are seeing incumbent Democrats in a world of hurt.''
A wave of anxiety swept across Democrats, regardless of seniority, geographic region or whether they voted for Mr. Obama's agenda on the hot-button issues of health care, economic stimulus or climate change legislation.
Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, gave a personal loan of $200,000 to his campaign to wage his toughest fight in years.
Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, the longest-serving member, invited former President Bill Clinton to his district for two stops on Sunday. Representative Gene Taylor, Democrat of Mississippi, who often is a reliable vote for Republicans, struggled to defend a seat he has held for two decades.
Republicans went after Mr. Taylor with a TV ad that opens with the precise moment Mr. Taylor supported Representative Nancy Pelosi for speaker in 2007 to the applause of his colleagues on the House floor. ''This is the moment Democrat Gene Taylor turned his back on us,'' the narrator said, echoing a theme that has emerged in district after district.
As they face the certainty of losses, Democrats are in a sense victims of their own success after winning 55 seats and expanding far into conservative territory over the last two election cycles. Now they are trying to defy history and demographics as they struggle to hang on to the districts in a midterm election with their party in the White House.
''We're duking it out everywhere,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
Should the Democrats manage to hang on to the House, it would be considered a major political upset at this point.
Republicans focused their efforts heavily on the Ohio River Valley, hoping to win back a trove of districts in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Democrats were trying to build a firewall in the Northeast, including seats in Connecticut, New York and Pennsylvania, where a strong performance could keep Republicans from repeating their 1994 sweep, when they captured 54 seats.
With time running out, leaders of both parties planned to spend the weekend in districts across the country. Mr. Obama appeared on Saturday evening in Minneapolis with Ms. Pelosi, raising $600,000 to help pay for a final burst of advertising for House candidates. As she sought to rally the Democratic crowd, she said: ''When the public knows the choice, we think that we will win -- we know.''
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, appeared in West Virginia with the top Republican candidates, while Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the likely speaker if Republicans take the House, campaigned Saturday in Kentucky on behalf of Andy Barr, a Republican who is trying to upend Representative Ben Chandler, a conservative Democrat.
Yet other vulnerable Democrats continued to hang tough, and their resilience led Republicans to look elsewhere to find Democrats who had not prepared for difficult contests.
Representative Tom Perriello of Virginia, who for months has been seen by Republicans as among the most endangered freshmen Democrats, is now in a race seen as one that could go either way. Representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado, whose district was aggressively pursued by Republicans, said he had seen his re-election prospects improve in recent weeks as voters have focused more closely on the contest, and he said he expected many of his embattled Democratic colleagues to prevail.
''I am normally an optimistic fellow, but I am also realistic,'' Mr. Perlmutter said in an interview. ''I have been talking to my buddies, and they are in tough races. But they are still right in it.''
Democrats are seeking to diminish their losses by mobilizing key voting blocs, particularly suburban and upper-income voters who can be motivated by concerns about Republicans returning to power in Washington and imposing a conservative, antigovernment agenda while trying to undo much of what Democrats pushed through Congress. Students and black voters, who offered crucial support in Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign, are also important constituencies in several districts across the Midwest, Northeast and South.
''I think they are going to show up far beyond what the polling indicates, and that is the secret to winning,'' said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 Democrat in the House, who appeared for candidates in Illinois, Indiana, Nevada, Minnesota and New York, with plans to stump in the Carolinas next week.
''What I am seeing district by district is a different result than if you are looking at the House over all,'' said Mr. Clyburn, the highest-ranking African-American in Congress.
Even though Republican optimism is high in the closing days, party leaders have ordered lawmakers and candidates to avoid overconfidence.
''It's a battle to the end,'' said Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, a vice chairman of the Republican Congressional committee. ''But only 20 months ago, Republicans were viewed like mold -- not really alive, but you couldn't kill us either. We've come back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, right, with Rand Paul, is campaigning this weekend for Republicans. Democratic leaders are also out pushing for their party. Among tight races, Jesse Kelly is trying to unseat Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, and Representative John D. Dingell, a Democrat, is battling in Michigan, where volunteers called for support. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED REINKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CASSI ALEXANDRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) MAP: The State of the House: A New York Times analysis suggests Republicans are strongly positioned to win control of the House. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TAX LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: PATTY MURRAY (59%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (58%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); RAND PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



676 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
INDIA'S SMALL CITIES
Show Off Their Wealth
Economists and government officials have long acclaimed India's so-called second-tier cities as new founts of prosperity and incubators of the country's growing middle class. But now even smaller cities in some of India's most prosperous states are booming, too. Page 5
BACKING STATE FESTIVALS 
A shift in official Chinese sentiment has led to an explosion of music festivals, staged with the help of local governments that have come to realize that pierced rockers flailing around a mosh pit are not necessarily interested in upending single-party rule. More important, the governments have decided, music festivals can give the government an air of coolness. Page 5
IRAQ DENOUNCES LEAKS
Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki denounced the release of thousands of classified Iraq war records as a move to derail his pursuit of another term, while his political opponents called the documents an indictment of his administration. Page 11
ATTACK ON U.N. BASE
Four Taliban suicide bombers attacked the main United Nations compound in western Afghanistan, officials said, but there were no casualties among the staff. PAGE 11
National
LEADERSHIP DISPUTE
And Debt Imperil Church
The religious empire built the Rev. Robert H. Schuller, one of the original religious broadcasters, may be in jeopardy, tarnished by an unseemly family feud and a $43 million debt that even by megachurch standards is serious. Page 19
CABLE NEWS IN THE MIDTERMS
Even more than they did in 2008, Fox News Channel and its left-leaning counterpart MSNBC are playing outsize roles in the midterm elections this year. Attacking the news media is time-honored in politics, but recent fund-raising efforts show how some candidates and groups have been directing their attack ads not at other candidates, but at cable television. Page 20
New York
A BUMPY FIRST YEAR
For the M.T.A.'s Chief
In his 12 months as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Jay H. Walder has been battling to keep his agency from collapse. The worst service cuts in a generation and the third fare increase in three years occurred on his watch, even if the financial problems that precipitated them were inherited. PAGE 27
Sports
RAPID RISE OF RUNNERS
Who Strive for Others
In the field of 43,000 runners in this year's New York City Marathon, 7,400 will be running for charity, an increasingly viable way to get into the coveted race for those who do not beat the long lottery odds, qualify by time or live near enough to participate in 10 required races in New York. Page 4
A SCHOOL BOUNCES BACK
Football at South Cameron High, as much as anything, illustrates the resiliency of the Cajuns in Creole, La., which was battered by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and Hurricane Ike in 2008, and the challenge of maintaining a lifestyle dependent on the bounty and vagaries of nature. Page1
A SURPLUS OF PLAYMAKERS
Point guard has become the N.B.A.'s most talent-laden position, one that is undergoing a transformation from a haven for pass-first players to a showcase for do-everything playmakers. PAGE 7
Obituaries
DICK MILES, 85
His powerful forehand and sterling defensive skills made him perhaps the greatest table tennis player the United States has ever produced. PAGE 30
Sunday Business
HYSTERIA IS THICKER
Than Water or Oil
Owners of resorts and vacation spots on Florida's gulf coast have noticed a sharp drop in business since the oil spill even though they are nowhere near the affected area. Black-crude hysteria, not reality, led to the dearth of tourists, and owners believe they are entitled to compensation from BP. Page 1
IT SEES YOU WHILE YOU PLAY
Microsoft's fun quotient has skyrocketed. With the addition of the Kinect, a movement-sensing add-on for its Xbox 360 console, the company may have trumped both Sony and Nintendo's own efforts in that field and eliminated buttons and controllers at the same time. Page 1
CUSTOMER BECOMES CREATOR
Web-based businesses have gone beyond simply tailoring their products to their customers. Now, they have started making those customers part of the creative and marketing processes. Page 3
UNCHAINED AND GREASE-FREE
Nobody has managed to reinvent the wheel yet, but there have been successful efforts at changing the way that wheel goes round and round. The Gates Corporation in Denver has begun to offer a series of belt-driven systems for bicycles that eliminates the need for oil or other lubrication. Page 3
Arts & Leisure
A FORMER WILD SPIRIT
Becomes a Headmistress
Gelsey Kirkland, a former superstar of ballet, opened a ballet academy last month with her husband. In her past are victorious personal battles; in their place is a solidity and presence belied by her diminutive size. Page 5
Style
FLYING LONG, GRAY LOCKS
As a Flag of Rebellion
For many women of a certain age, writes Dominique Browning, cutting their hair when it begins to gray is the appropriate thing to do. But if they don't, why do people judge middle-aged women with long hair so harshly? Page 2
Magazine
WHY WOMEN WON'T HAVE
It All, Until Men Do Too
You could easily compile statistics to make the point that Western women are already empowered. But telling somebody something is true is not enough; it needs to feel true. Now, as the genders close in on real equality, there are still some glaring imbalances and a surviving chip on many women's shoulders. Page 13
Book Review
TWO POLITICAL WRITERS
Cross a Divide of Ideas
Two seasoned political writers, Jonathan Alter and Christopher Caldwell, sample books from liberal and conservative perspectives in this election year. Page 1
Automobiles
FOR NEW-CAR BUYERS,
Hybrid Market Widens
Sorting through all the choices in electric and hybrid drive systems can be a formidable task. Sports Sunday, Page 1
Editorial
HEALTH CARE AND THE CAMPAIGN
Lies and distortions spread by Republican candidates, and deep-pocketed special interests about health care reform have voters anxious and confused. Week in Review, Page 9
FOOL ME TWICE?
American multinationals are pushing a tax holiday in exchange for repatriating foreign profits. Congress should not be fooled. Week in Review, Page 9
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
The White House's failure to hold the perpetrators behind the economic crash accountable has left Democrats vulnerable to the G.O.P.'s faux populist charge. Week in Review, Page 10
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
In this integrated and automated global economy, we're in the Age of Extra. Week in Review, Page 10
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Would a peace deal with the Taliban mean worse oppression for Afghan women? Not if we invest (carefully) in education initiatives there. Week In Review, Page 11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (85%); MARATHONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); POLITICS (74%); TALIBAN (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); RELIGION (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); HURRICANES (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); RUNNING (52%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



677 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Can Democrats Still Win?

BYLINE: By STANLEY B. GREENBERG and JAMES CARVILLE. 
Stanley B. Greenberg is a Democratic pollster and the author of ''Dispatches From the War Room: In the Trenches With Five Extraordinary Leaders.'' James Carville teaches political science at Tulane. Both were advisers to , President Bill Clinton.

 BODY:
IN September 1998, after months of coverage of Monica Lewinsky, Kenneth Starr and Bill Clinton's impeachment, Republicans were confident that they would make historic gains in the midterm elections. Many Democrats agreed, predicting a big loss in the House and one in the Senate, which would give Republicans a filibuster-proof supermajority, their largest since Warren G. Harding.
That month, the two of us browbeat a handful of donors to finance a national survey to see if there was any way Democratic candidates could make Republican overreach on impeachment a winning election issue. 
When we got the results, we found that Republicans had a three-point lead over the Democrats in the Congressional ballot, but that wasn't the discouraging part. After respondents heard our messages attacking Republicans for dwelling on impeachment and failing to address America's priorities, the Republican lead actually grew to six points. In this environment, voters were not listening to Democratic messengers and their messages. Conversations with the donors who had backed the study were deeply depressing.
At the beginning of October, with the House ready to open debate on impeachment, support for Democrats in Gallup's generic poll fell below the critical 50 percent line. Newt Gingrich, the House majority leader, predicted a Republican majority even bigger than the one produced by the upheaval he had led in 1994. Time magazine considered Mr. Gingrich's claim ''only marginally boastful.''
But hope springs eternal. With the White House and Democratic Congressional leaders mired in the impeachment battle, we decided to conduct the same survey again. This time, though, the results were different. Three in five respondents said they were more likely to vote for candidates who wanted to ''bring the impeachment to an end in 30 days'' and who said: ''The country has had enough. My main goal is to get Congress to focus on the needs of American families.'' What's more, this message enabled Democratic candidates to improve their margin in the survey by six points.
We promptly sent out an alert to Democrats that voters were open to other messages as they started to feel that the Republicans had gone too far. Meanwhile, Republicans doubled down on their misguided strategy -- highlighting the impeachment and the ensuing scandal with a late advertising blitz.
And the result?
Democrats surprised everyone: no net losses in the Senate and a net gain of five seats in the House -- the best showing for the incumbent president's party in a midterm election since 1934. Newt Gingrich resigned.
With the 2010 midterm elections just over a week away, Democrats find themselves in a similarly perilous situation. There are fears that Democrats could lose as many as 50 House seats; the Senate could go either way. A survey last week by our polling group, Democracy Corps, had Democrats down five points in the House ballot. Add to this early voting, heavy campaign spending by outside corporate groups, high unemployment and the general feeling that the country is on the wrong track, and it is hard to imagine that Nov. 2 will be a good day for Democrats.
But there are two patterns in today's polls that indicate voters might still be listening and just might be open to supporting Democrats. In our latest national poll, we found that the Republican Party and the Republicans in Congress are as unpopular as the Democrats -- unusual for a party riding a wave of support. With Republican candidates like Sharron Angle, Joe Miller, Christine O'Donnell, Rand Paul and Carl Paladino dominating the spotlight, Republicans find themselves no more appealing to voters now than they were in 2008.
In addition, there are signs that voters are still open to hearing from Democrats. An NPR poll that surveys likely voters in key House districts found this month that a Democratic message focused on the middle class and American jobs won out over a Republican message of deficit reduction and wasteful spending. (Disclosure: Greenberg Quinlan Rosner helped conduct this survey.) True, voters are not particularly moved by Democratic messages about Republican extremism or the policies that produced the recession. But they are open to hearing about how to repair the economy and put Americans back to work. This is surprising, because voters normally tune out the party they want to punish at the polls.
Will this election be a disaster for Democrats? We don't know. What we do know, however, is that based on our experiences leading up to the last supposed Democratic debacle, candidates may have more control over their destinies than they think.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



678 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR MELINDA GATES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: The Donor

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
As the co-chairwoman of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, whose $33 billion endowment makes it the largest private foundation in the world, you've focused your efforts on the health and welfare of women in developing countries. Women and children. It's been a passion of mine for a long time, but now you're seeing the world do it.
Right, it seems to be fashionable as far as philanthropic causes go. Just last month, the U.N. unveiled its Global Strategy for Women's and Children's Health. Have we given up on men's health? No. In the developing world, it's about time that women are on the agenda. For instance, 80 percent of small-subsistence farmers in sub-Saharan Africa are women, and yet all the programs in the past were predominantly focused on men. 
Why don't you direct more of your philanthropy toward the United States, where your foundation could create jobs for the unemployed, or try to solve the health care crisis? As a foundation, first of all, you have to focus. But we absolutely do focus on the United States. We have three large programs: global health, global development and U.S. programs. About 20 percent goes to U.S. programs.
You grew up in Dallas and attended an all-girls parochial high school. How did that shape you? The Ursuline nuns were a bit more liberal, so they really taught us how to think about the problems of the world. The school's motto is ''Serviam,'' that is, ''I will serve.''
Do you think the pope is hurting efforts on behalf of women's health by preaching against the use of birth control? I think we need to have birth-control tools all over the world. And he has a different position on that. But for me, I don't choose to be part of the Catholic Church based on a particular set of rules he's got or not. I base it on the faith that I have over time having been part of that church.
Have you met Pope Benedict XVI? I have not. It hasn't been top priority for me.
As a champion of women's health, you presumably favor abortion rights? The foundation doesn't take a position on abortion.We do take a position on reproductive-health tools. Women around the world should have a tool that helps them plan their pregnancies.
Do you enjoy being a spokeswoman for the Gates Foundation? You're a warmer presence than your husband. He's getting better, don't you think? He did say to me, ''I'm starting to realize that talking to people about tuberculosis at a cocktail party doesn't go so well.''
What's wrong with talking about TB at a cocktail party? We say at our dinner table,''Diarrhea is a discussion we can have,'' and the kids will go, ''Ugh!'' Diarrhea kills a million and a half kids a year. Sometimes we overdo it, I think, at the dinner table.
You and Bill first met after you started working at Microsoft? When we very first met, I had worked at the company for only a few weeks. My background was computer science and business school, so eventually I worked my way up where I was running product groups -- development, testing, marketing, user education.
Do you own an iPod, which is made by Apple? No, I have a Zune.
What if one of your children says, ''Mom, I have to have an iPod?'' I have gotten that argument -- ''You may have a Zune.''
Do you have an iPad? Of course not.
Is it true that Bill works on an Apple laptop? False. Nothing crosses the threshold of our doorstep.
Isn't there room in this world for both Apple and Microsoft? Microsoft certainly makes products for the Macintosh. Go talk to Bill.
By the way, I see he fell this year back to No. 2 on the list of the world's wealthiest people. How did he feel when the Mexican businessman Carlos Slim overtook him? The only person that teases him about that is our youngest daughter, our 8-year-old. He couldn't care less.
INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN OTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (93%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); MEN (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (70%); CONTRACEPTION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); ABORTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



679 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: President Seeks Edge In a Contest For Governor

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
MINNEAPOLIS -- President Obama wrapped up a four-day campaign swing on Saturday, telling students and the Democratic Party faithful to seize the chance to win a Republican-held governor's seat here next month.
Mr. Obama appeared at a rally on behalf of the candidate Mark Dayton, who probably represents the Democrats' best chance in the midterm elections to take a seat held by a Republican governor. Unlike many other races across the country where polls show Republicans with an edge, in Minnesota, Mr. Dayton, a former United States senator, is polling ahead of Tom Emmer, a Republican, and Tom Horner of the Independence Party.
A capacity crowd of about 8,500 jammed the field house at the University of Minnesota for the rally, the last event in a trip that took the president across the Western states of Oregon, Washington, California and Nevada before his stop in Minnesota. 
The departing governor, Tim Pawlenty, a Republican who may well be running against Mr. Obama for the presidency in 2012, released a video to pseudo-welcome the president to his home state. The video included a mock lesson on what it takes to talk like a Minnesotan.
''For example, we say 'uffdah,' '' Mr. Pawlenty said in the video. ''If you wanted to use it in a sentence, it would be like, 'You said unemployment would stay below 8 percent and now its almost 10 -- uffdah!' ''
Mr. Obama, for his part, was sticking to standard English during his speech at the field house.
''When I arrived in Washington, my hope was that we could put partisanship aside to solve economic problems,'' the president said. ''A lot of Republicans out there felt the same way. But when we got to Washington, the Republican leaders in Congress had a different idea.''
He characterized the elections on Nov. 2 as a choice ''between the policies that got us into this mess and the policies that will get us out of this mess.''
''I don't know about you,'' Mr. Obama said, ''but I want to move forward.''
Whether Mr. Obama will be able to move forward after the midterms with the Congressional majorities that he has had for the past two years is a big question mark. Many Democratic leaders are sounding increasingly resigned that Democrats will lose the House of Representatives, and they express fears that their Senate majority could be endangered as well.
In fact, Mr. Obama's campaign appearances in recent days illustrate just how tough the ride ahead may be for the Democrats. Instead of venturing into Republican territory, as he did in his successful run for the presidency in 2008, Mr. Obama in the last weeks of this campaign season has been spending his time trying to shore up the Democratic firewall in traditionally blue states.
That races in Washington State, California and Oregon -- all traditionally friendly to Democrats -- still need visits from the campaigner in chief to energize the base is a sign of how much the political landscape has changed, largely as a consequence of the economic downturn.
On Friday night, Mr. Obama headlined a rally in Las Vegas on behalf of Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, who is locked in a tight race with the Tea Party-backed candidate Sharron Angle.
Mr. Obama also stumped for Senator Barbara Boxer of California and Senator Patty Murray of Washington. On Monday, he was scheduled to head to Rhode Island to continue to try to drum up votes for Democratic candidates before Election Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARK DAYTON (72%); TIM PAWLENTY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (89%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



680 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Boot the Blue Dogs

BYLINE: By ARI BERMAN. 
Ari Berman, a contributing writer for The Nation, is the author of ''Herding Donkeys: The Fight to Rebuild the Democratic Party and Reshape American Politics.''

 BODY:
IN 2008, Barack Obama's presidential campaign seemed to rewrite all the rules in electoral politics and herald a new progressive era in America. Democrats assembled a huge Congressional majority and, in the euphoria that followed the historic election, were poised to enact sweeping change. However, despite some notable successes -- the stimulus package, health care reform, tighter rules for the financial industry -- things have not gone according to plan. Just two years later, Democrats face a bad economy, a skeptical public, a re-energized Republican Party and a coming avalanche of losses in the midterm elections.
What happened? One important explanation is that divisions inside the Democratic coalition, which held together during the 2008 campaign, have come spilling out into the open. Conservative Democrats have opposed key elements of the president's agenda, while liberal Democrats have howled that their majority is being hijacked by a rogue group of predominantly white men from small rural states. President Obama himself appears caught in the middle, unable to satisfy the many factions inside his party's big tent. 
Conservative Democrats in the House of Representatives -- whose election in 2006 and 2008 enabled Nancy Pelosi to preside over a supermajority (there are 255 Democrats and 178 Republicans) -- increasingly question whether she should relinquish her position as speaker. Representative Heath Shuler of western North Carolina, a leader of the restive Blue Dog Coalition of Democrats, has even hinted that he may run for her job. Representative Shuler is an unlikely candidate for leader of the party -- a devout Southern Baptist who voted against the stimulus, the bank and auto bailouts and health care reform. Yet he's exactly the kind of Democrat that the party worked very hard to recruit for public office.
In 2005, Howard Dean, who was then the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, carried out a campaign to elect as many Democrats as possible. In long-ignored red states, both Mr. Dean and Rahm Emanuel, then the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, backed conservative Democrats who broke with the party's leadership on core issues like gun control and abortion rights. Mr. Shuler was one of Mr. Emanuel's top recruits. The party leaders did not give much thought to how a Democratic majority that included such conservative members could ever effectively govern.
With President Obama in office, some notable beneficiaries of the Democrats' 50-state strategy have been antagonizing the party from within -- causing legislative stalemate in Congress, especially in the Senate, and casting doubt on the long-term viability of a Democratic majority. As a result, the activists who were so inspired by Mr. Dean in 2006 and Mr. Obama in 2008 are now feeling buyer's remorse.
Margaret Johnson, a former party chairwoman in Polk County, N.C., helped elect Representative Shuler but now believes the party would be better off without him. ''I'd rather have a real Republican than a fake Democrat,'' she said. ''A real Republican motivates us to work. A fake Democrat de-motivates us.''
Ms. Johnson is right: Democrats would be in better shape, and would accomplish more, with a smaller and more ideologically cohesive caucus. It's a sentiment that even Mr. Dean now echoes. ''Having a big, open-tent Democratic Party is great, but not at the cost of getting nothing done,'' he said. Since the passage of health care reform, few major bills have passed the Senate. Although the Democrats have a 59-vote majority, party leaders can barely find the votes for something as benign as extending unemployment benefits.
A smaller majority, minus the intraparty feuding, could benefit Democrats in two ways: first, it could enable them to devise cleaner pieces of legislation, without blatantly trading pork for votes as they did with the deals that helped sour the public on the health care bill. (As a corollary, the narrative of ''Democratic infighting'' would also diminish.)
Second, in the Senate, having a majority of 52 rather than 59 or 60 would force Democrats to confront the Republicans' incessant misuse of the filibuster to require that any piece of legislation garner a minimum of 60 votes to become law. Since President Obama's election, more than 420 bills have cleared the House but have sat dormant in the Senate. It's easy to forget that George W. Bush passed his controversial 2003 tax cut legislation with only 50 votes, plus Vice President Dick Cheney's. Eternal gridlock is not inevitable unless Democrats allow it to be.
Republicans have become obsessed with ideological purity, and as a consequence they will likely squander a few winnable races in places like Delaware. But Democrats aren't ideological enough. Their conservative contingent has so blurred what it means to be a Democrat that the party itself can barely find its way. Polls show that, despite their best efforts to distance themselves from Speaker Pelosi and President Obama, a number of Blue Dog Democrats are likely to be defeated this November. Their conservative voting records have deflated Democratic activists but have done nothing to win Republican support.
Far from hastening the dawn of a post-partisan utopia, President Obama's election has led to near-absolute polarization. If Democrats alter their political strategy accordingly, they'll be more united and more productive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); GUN CONTROL (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%); ABORTION (50%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HEATH SHULER (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



681 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to Change We Can Believe In?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
PRESIDENT Obama, the Rodney Dangerfield of 2010, gets no respect for averting another Great Depression, for saving 3.3 million jobs with stimulus spending, or for salvaging GM and Chrysler from the junkyard. And none of these good deeds, no matter how substantial, will go unpunished if the projected Democratic bloodbath materializes on Election Day. Some are even going unremembered. For Obama, the ultimate indignity is the Times/CBS News poll in September showing that only 8 percent of Americans know that he gave 95 percent of American taxpayers a tax cut.
The reasons for his failure to reap credit for any economic accomplishments are a catechism by now: the dark cloud cast by undiminished unemployment, the relentless disinformation campaign of his political opponents, and the White House's surprising ineptitude at selling its own achievements. But the most relentless drag on a chief executive who promised change we can believe in is even more ominous. It's the country's fatalistic sense that the stacked economic order that gave us the Great Recession remains not just in place but more entrenched and powerful than ever. 
No matter how much Obama talks about his ''tough'' new financial regulatory reforms or offers rote condemnations of Wall Street greed, few believe there's been real change. That's not just because so many have lost their jobs, their savings and their homes. It's also because so many know that the loftiest perpetrators of this national devastation got get-out-of-jail-free cards, that too-big-to-fail banks have grown bigger and that the rich are still the only Americans getting richer.
This intractable status quo is being rubbed in our faces daily during the pre-election sprint by revelations of the latest banking industry outrage, its disregard for the rule of law as it cut every corner to process an avalanche of foreclosures. Clearly, these financial institutions have learned nothing in the few years since their contempt for fiscal and legal niceties led them to peddle these predatory mortgages (and the reckless financial ''products'' concocted from them) in the first place. And why should they have learned anything? They've often been rewarded, not punished, for bad behavior.
The latest example is Angelo Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide and the godfather of subprime mortgages. On the eve of his trial 10 days ago, he settled Securities and Exchange Commission charges for $67.5 million, $20 million of which will be footed by what remains of Countrywide in its present iteration at Bank of America. Even if he paid the whole sum himself, it would still be a small fraction of the $521 million he collected in compensation as he pursued his gambling spree from 2000 until 2008.
A particularly egregious chunk of that take was the $140 million he pocketed by dumping Countrywide shares in 2006-7. It was a chapter right out of Kenneth Lay's Enron playbook: Mozilo reassured shareholders that all was peachy even as his private e-mail was awash in panic over the ''toxic'' mortgages bringing Countrywide (and the country) to ruin. Lay, at least, was convicted by a jury and destined to decades in the slammer before his death.
The much acclaimed new documentary about the global economic meltdown, ''Inside Job,'' has it right. As its narrator, Matt Damon, intones, our country has been robbed by insiders who ''destroyed their own companies and plunged the world into crisis'' -- and then ''walked away from the wreckage with their fortunes intact.'' These insiders include Dick Fuld and four other executives at Lehman Brothers who ''got to keep all the money'' (more than $1 billion) after Lehman went bankrupt. And of course Robert Rubin, who encouraged Citigroup to step up its investment in high-risk bets like Countrywide's mortgage-backed securities. Rubin, now back as a rainmaker on Wall Street, collected more than $115million in compensation during roughly the same period Mozilo ''earned'' his half a billion. Citi, which required a $45 billion taxpayers' bailout, recently secured its own slap-on-the-wrist S.E.C. settlement -- at $75 million, less than Rubin's earnings and less than its 2003 penalty ($101 million) for its role in hiding Enron profits.
It should pain the White House that its departing economic guru, the Rubin protege Lawrence Summers, is an even bigger heavy in ''Inside Job'' than in the hit movie of election season, ''The Social Network.'' Summers -- like the former Goldman Sachs chief executive and Bush Treasury secretary Hank Paulson -- is portrayed as just the latest in a procession of policy makers who keep rotating in and out of government and the financial industry, almost always to that industry's advantage. As the star economist Nouriel Roubini tells the filmmaker, Charles Ferguson, the financial sector on Wall Street has ''step by step captured the political system'' on ''the Democratic and the Republican side'' alike. But it would be wrong to single out Summers or any individual official for the Obama administration's image of being lax in pursuing finance's bad actors. This tone is set at the top.
Asked in ''Inside Job'' why there's been no systematic investigation of the 2008 crash, Roubini answers: ''Because then you'd find the culprits.'' With the aid of the ''Manhattan Madam'' (and current stunt New York gubernatorial candidate) Kristin Davis, the film also asks why federal prosecutors who were ''perfectly happy to use Eliot Spitzer's personal vices to force him to resign in 2008'' have not used rampant sex-and-drug trade on Wall Street as a tool for flipping witnesses to pursue the culprits behind the financial crimes that devastated the nation.
The Obama administration seems not to have a prosecutorial gene. It's shy about calling a fraud a fraud when it occurs in high finance. This caution was exemplified most recently by the secretary of housing and urban development, Shaun Donovan, whose response to the public outcry over the banks' foreclosure shenanigans was to take to The Huffington Post last weekend. ''The notion that many of the very same institutions that helped cause this housing crisis may well be making it worse is not only frustrating -- it's shameful,'' he wrote.
Well, yes! Obama couldn't have said it more eloquently himself. But with all due respect to Secretary Donovan's blogging finesse, he wasn't promising action. He was just stroking the liberal base while the administration once again punted. In our new banking scandal, as in those before it, attorneys general in the states, where many pension funds were decimated by Wall Street Ponzi schemes, are pursuing the crimes Washington has not. The largest bill of reparations paid out by Bank of America for Countrywide's deceptive mortgage practices -- $8.4 billion -- was to settle a suit by 11 state attorneys general on the warpath.
Since Obama has neither aggressively pursued the crash's con men nor compellingly explained how they gamed the system, he sometimes looks as if he's fronting for the industry even if he's not. Voters are not only failing to give the White House credit for its economic successes but finding it guilty of transgressions it didn't commit. The opposition is more than happy to pump up that confusion. When Mitch McConnell appeared on ABC's ''This Week'' last month, he typically railed against the ''extreme'' government of ''the last year and a half,'' citing its takeover of banks as his first example. That this was utter fiction -- the takeover took place two years ago, before Obama was president, with McConnell voting for it -- went unchallenged by his questioner, Christiane Amanpour, and probably by many viewers inured to this big lie.
The real tragedy here, though, is not whatever happens in midterm elections. It's the long-term prognosis for America. The obscene income inequality bequeathed by the three-decade rise of the financial industry has societal consequences graver than even the fundamental economic unfairness. When we reward financial engineers infinitely more than actual engineers, we ''lure our most talented graduates to the largely unproductive chase'' for Wall Street riches, as the economist Robert H. Frank wrote in The Times last weekend. Worse, Frank added, the continued squeeze on the middle class leads to a wholesale decline in the quality of American life -- from more bankruptcy filings and divorces to a collapse in public services, whether road repair or education, that taxpayers will no longer support.
Even as the G.O.P. benefits from unlimited corporate campaign money, it's pulling off the remarkable feat of persuading a large swath of anxious voters that it will lead a populist charge against the rulers of our economic pyramid -- the banks, energy companies, insurance giants and other special interests underwriting its own candidates. Should those forces prevail, an America that still hasn't remotely recovered from the worst hard times in 70 years will end up handing over even more power to those who greased the skids.
We can blame much of this turn of events on the deep pockets of oil billionaires like the Koch brothers and on the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, which freed corporations to try to buy any election they choose. But the Obama White House is hardly innocent. Its failure to hold the bust's malefactors accountable has helped turn what should have been a clear-cut choice on Nov. 2 into a blurry contest between the party of big corporations and the party of business as usual.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); RELIGION (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANGELO R MOZILO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Inside Job (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



682 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Running Against, and With, Cable News

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
When Rupert Murdoch, the chief executive of the News Corporation, donated $1 million to the Republican Governors Association this summer, he may have given an even bigger gift to its opponents.
The Democratic Governors Association said its call to match the Murdoch contribution raised $1.7 million. Ginning up a fight with Fox News, which is owned by the News Corporation, ''helped fire up the base,'' said Nathan Daschle, the association's executive director.
That is what cable news does now: fire up the base.
Even more than they did than in 2008, Fox News Channel and its left-leaning counterpart MSNBC are playing outsize roles in the midterm elections this year. Attacking the news media is time-honored in politics, but the recent fund-raising efforts show how some candidates and groups have been directing their attack ads this year not at other candidates, but at cable television. 
Marco Rubio, the Republican Senate candidate in Florida, said in a Web ad over the summer that his economic plan must be right because the MSNBC host ''Rachel Maddow thinks it's wrong.'' Christine O'Donnell, the Republican Senate candidate in Delaware, criticized ''the liberal media led by Rachel Maddow and Keith Olbermann'' in an e-mail pitch last month -- conveniently next to the ''Donate Now'' button.
And also last month, Ted Strickland, the governor in Ohio, who is in a tough fight against the Republican John Kasich, a former Fox News host, incorporated Mr. Murdoch's $1 million donation in a fund-raising appeal.
Conversely, Fox is drawing attention as a fund-raising platform for Republicans. Last week Mr. Kasich was given time to promote his campaign Web site on ''Hannity,'' a prime time program on Fox News. Mr. Kasich told viewers, ''If you have extra nickels or dimes, please send it our way.''
Last summer, Sharron Angle, the Republican Senate candidate in Nevada, acknowledged that she considers fund-raising potential when she accepts or rejects interview requests. Asked by the Christian Broadcasting Network about her preference for Fox News and ''more conservative outlets,'' she said, ''You can watch -- whenever I go on to a show like that we get an immediate bump.''
As for tougher programs like ''Meet the Press,'' which is a production of NBC and is replayed on MSNBC, she asked, ''Well, in that audience will they let me say I need $25 dollars from a million people -- go to SharronAngle.com, send money?''
Alex Conant, a Republican strategist who is advising Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, said some politicians, like Representative Michele Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican, had ''clearly benefited fund-raising-wise by having a higher profile.''
But he also observed that ''some of the campaigns that have raised the most money haven't gone on cable at all.''
The influence of cable will almost certainly extend into the next presidential election, since a number of potential candidates for the Republican nomination are on the payroll of Fox News, including Mike Huckabee, who has a show on the weekends, and Sarah Palin.
The politicization of cable news has been a long time coming. Still, it was striking to see Glenn Beck of Fox News hold a religious-themed rally in Washington in August, and to see Ed Schultz, who is the host of programs on MSNBC and on radio, kick off a progressive rally there this month.
Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central are staging a rally in Washington next Saturday, but Mr. Stewart says it will not be political.
The evolution of cable hosts from observers to outright opponents has sometimes been a source of frustration. Ms. Maddow said on her show this month, ''For those of us who work here at MSNBC, one of the most surreal things about this particular election year, has been conservative politicians' efforts to make us part of the elections.''
Ms. Maddow bemoaned the fact that politicians like Mr. Rubio and Senator Scott Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, invoke her in ads and e-mail appeals, but turn down her interview requests.
Because Fox is the most popular cable news channel by far -- lately it has been averaging about 1.5 million viewers at any given time on the weekdays, more than CNN and MSNBC combined -- it draws enormous scrutiny from liberals for what they perceive to be a right-wing bent in both the news and opinion programming. Mr. Olbermann now calls Fox News ''FoxPAC,'' the insinuation being that the network is a political arm of the G.O.P., in part because of Mr. Murdoch's donation.
This week the billionaire financier George Soros said he was donating $1 million to Media Matters, a liberal media monitoring group, to step up the group's fight against Fox.
Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC, and others strenuously object to the idea that Fox and MSNBC are opposite sides of the same coin. ''Show me an example of us fund-raising,'' he said in a recent interview.
Those examples exist at Fox. The channel was the subject of an election complaint in Ohio because Mr. Kasich was able to ask for money and display his Web site address during an interview in August on ''The O'Reilly Factor,'' Fox's biggest prime time talk show. Mr. Kasich used to host a weekend show on Fox, and Mr. Murdoch has called him a friend.
Mr. Daschle, whose group filed the complaint, called it ''free advertising,'' and recited Mr. Kasich's claim in a campaign speech that he raised over $21,000 in the 12 hours after the interview. The association withdrew its original complaint in order to amend it; Mr. Daschle said it would file a new complaint soon.
A spokeswoman for Fox News said the channel declined to comment for this article.
All this political activity has spurred at least a little bit of hand-wringing at the channels. NBC News, which operates MSNBC, recently reiterated its rule that employees may not engage in political activity, but said it had carved out an exception for some MSNBC hosts.
Sometimes the most outspoken of the Fox hosts go out and raise money directly. Mr. Hannity has headlined several fund-raisers for Republicans this year. And just last week, Mr. Beck donated $10,000 to the U. S. Chamber of Commerce to defend it against criticism from President Obama -- and challenged his radio listeners to donate as well. He wanted to make it the chamber's biggest fund-raising day ever.
''In the first hour, we beat that goal,'' he bragged on Fox News later that day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rupert Murdoch of the News Corporation and Rachel Maddow, the MSNBC host. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES
 NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); POLITICS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); NEWS CORP (95%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); JOHN KASICH (78%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



683 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE PRIVILEGES, by Jonathan Dee (Random House, $15.) In this ''contemporary morality tale,'' as our reviewer, Roxana Robinson, called it -- assuming you can write a morality tale about people without morals -- a young golden couple marry, have children and become incredibly wealthy from insider trading. Dee's ''intelligent and ambitious book'' proposes ''that the family is essential to society, that we abandon it at our peril,'' Robinson said. She praised the ''elegance, vitality and complexity'' of Dee's writing.
FREEFALL: America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy, by Joseph E. Stiglitz (Norton, $16.95.) Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, more or less predicted the disasters that have overtaken the American economy. This book combines a powerful indictment of Wall Street, an elaboration of how the Obama administration decided to embrace the financial sector, and an attack on economists for becoming ''free-market capitalism's biggest cheerleader.'' The Obama administration, Stiglitz fears, ''only slightly rearranged the deck chairs on the Titanic,'' reinforcing ''the existing failed system'' rather than redesigning it. 
THE IMMORTALS, by Amit Chaudhuri (Vintage, $16.95.) The raga-loving scion of a corporate family in 1980s India is the protagonist of this comedy of manners. Chaudhuri ''is candid without being cynical'' about those who ''have made India a global economic player,'' Gaiutra Bahadur wrote in the Book Review, admiring the ''wry, knowing authorial tone that makes the book so pleasurable.''
GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ: A Life, by Gerald Martin (Vintage, $18.95.) Garcia Marquez is ''the best-known writer to have emerged from the 'third world' and the best-known exponent of a literary style, 'magical realism,' which has proved astonishingly productive in other developing countries,'' Martin writes in this intensive, analytical biography of the Nobel Prize-winning Colombian novelist. Drawing on his 17 years of research, Martin provides genealogical tables reaching back to the 19th century, a description of the trip to his grandfather's house that gave Garcia Marquez his great theme, and even an interview with the subject's mother (although Garcia Marquez is now 83).
BICYCLE DIARIES, by David Byrne (Penguin, $16.) Byrne -- singer, composer, former Talking Head -- has been a serious bicyclist since the early 1980s, and he takes his full-size folding bike with him all over the world. This account of his travels at home and abroad ''is partly about cycling but also about whatever Byrne happens to have on his mind, . . . and fortunately a lot of it is quite interesting,'' Geoff Nicholson wrote in the Book Review.
BUT NOT FOR LONG, by Michelle Wildgen (Picador, $15.) Three members of a housing co-op in Madison, Wis., face a sort of apocalypse when gas stations run out of fuel, a prolonged blackout hits and honeybees disappear. Eventually people break out their bikes and begin foraging for mushrooms. The plot sounds didactic, but there is nothing preachy about this novel, our reviewer, Rebecca Tuhus-Dubrow, said, and the characters are skillfully developed.
TO SERVE GOD AND WAL-MART: The Making of Christian Free Enterprise, by Bethany Moreton (Harvard University, $17.95.) How has the notoriously stingy Wal-Mart (see Barbara Ehrenreich's ''Nickel and Dimed'') managed to attract so many dedicated workers? This well-written and meticulously researched study suggests that the company invoked the fundamental Christian teachings embraced by many of its employees to fashion a working environment in which they were comfortable and happy.
DOGTOWN: Death and Enchantment in a New England Ghost Town, by Elyssa East (Free Press, $15.) In search of the setting of a painting by the American artist Marsden Hartley that had obsessed her as an art history student at Reed College, East visited Dogtown, in Gloucester, Mass., a colonial ruin full of ghost stories and the memories of a 1984 murder. An excellent researcher, East brings the case to life in this ambitious book.
THE MAN WHO LOVED BOOKS TOO MUCH: The True Story of a Thief, a Detective, and a World of Literary Obsession, by Allison Hoover Bartlett (Riverhead, $15.) Starting with the story of a man who stole more than $100,000 worth of rare books, Bartlett presents a series of fascinating vignettes about how the love of books can turn to madness, sometimes eccentric, sometimes sociopathic.
''THERE IS NO ALTERNATIVE'': Why Margaret Thatcher Matters, by Claire Berlinski (Basic Books, $16.95.) Thatcher changed the terms of political debate in Britain and altered the course of the rival Labour Party. This book is sophisticated and well informed, but its structure is frustrating, our reviewer, Stephen Pollard, found.
THE GHOSTS OF BELFAST, by Stuart Neville (Soho, $14.) In this coldly lucid first novel, an I.R.A. enforcer haunted by the people he killed takes vengeance on the men who ordered their deaths.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (88%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); LITERATURE (76%); GENEALOGY (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); CYCLING (60%); INSIDER TRADING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



684 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: In Losing, There May Be Winning

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Let there be no mistake: President Obama wants the Democrats to win next week's midterm elections. His voice has gone hoarse telling every audience that from Delaware to Oregon. But let's also acknowledge this: Although he will not say so, there is at least a plausible argument that he might be better off if they lose.
The reality of presidential politics is that it helps to have an enemy. With Democrats controlling the White House and Congress, they shoulder responsibility for the country's troubles. No amount of venting about George W. Bush or the filibuster rule has convinced the public otherwise. But if Republicans capture Congress, Mr. Obama will finally have a foil heading toward his own re-election battle in 2012.
''The best possible result for Obama politically is for the Republicans to gain control of both houses,'' said Douglas E. Schoen, a Democratic pollster and strategist who helped President Bill Clinton recover from his own midterm Congressional defeat in 1994 to win re-election two years later. ''That's what Obama should want.'' 
Divided government, of course, is rarely pretty, and a Republican victory would mean the end of some of Mr. Obama's most expansive ideas, at least for now. If Democrats were frustrated pushing through their initiatives the last two years, they might soon look back at 2009 and 2010 as the glory days.
But other opportunities could open for Mr. Obama if he can take advantage, according to political specialists from across the spectrum. Either he will find a way to forge agreements with Republicans on issues like the economy, energy and education, or he may be able to play off Congress as an adversary much as Mr. Clinton did with House Speaker Newt Gingrich 15 years ago, and as Harry Truman did with the so-called Do-Nothing Congress decades before that.
''If the Republicans capture both House and Senate, the odds of Obama winning in 2012 go up,'' said Steven M. Gillon, a University of Oklahoma professor and resident historian for the History Channel who wrote ''The Pact,'' on the 1990s showdown between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gingrich. ''If the Democrats keep both houses, then Congress will hover over him and he's going to have less room to maneuver.''
Steve Elmendorf, a top House Democratic official during the 1990s, said that even with a narrower Democratic majority, Mr. Obama will have to decide whether to trim his ambitions or stick to his guns and fault the Republicans.
''If you can't do a big energy bill, will you look for a slimmer energy bill you can do with a new Congress?'' he said. ''Or do you say, 'No, I'm going to campaign for the next two years and say, I want to solve the big problems and the Republicans won't let me.'?''
While Mr. Obama tirelessly campaigns for Democrats, he said in a recent interview that he sees the prospect of more cooperation from Republicans after the election.
''It may be that regardless of what happens, after the election they feel more responsible,'' he said, ''either because they didn't do as well as they anticipated, and so the strategy of just saying no to everything and sitting on the sidelines and throwing bombs didn't work for them, or they did reasonably well, in which case the American people are going to be looking to them to offer serious proposals and work with me in a serious way.''
That presumes that Republicans have been irresponsible in opposing Mr. Obama's agenda, which they and a significant portion of the public would dispute. And it may be overly optimistic to assume that Republicans will be more willing to work with him without concession on his part. Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, a Republican leader, told the radio host Hugh Hewitt last week that ''there will be no compromise'' on issues like spending, taxes and health care. ''And if I haven't been clear enough yet,'' he added, ''let me say again: no compromise.''
Gridlock can work in a president's favor if he can pin the blame on the other side. Unpopular as he was in 1948, Truman portrayed the Republican Congress as the real obstacle to progress, even calling a special summer session and daring it to pass the more liberal reform platform adopted by its own party's nominating convention. When Republican lawmakers refused, Mr. Truman campaigned against Congress and beat the odds to win the election.
Mr. Clinton employed a triangulation strategy after Mr. Gingrich's Republicans took control, trying to play off both his own party as well as the empowered opposition. He declared the era of big government over and cut deals with Mr. Gingrich on welfare reform, while positioning himself as a bulwark against Republican excesses during the budget battle that led to the partial shutdown of the federal government.
''The Republican victory in 1994 saved the Clinton presidency,'' said Mr. Gillon, ''because it freed him from the liberal wing of his party and allowed him to be more nimble and flexible, which he's brilliant at. And it forced the Republicans to develop a governing philosophy. A campaign slogan may get you through Election Day but it doesn't help you solve these very difficult problems.''
But Republicans doubt that Mr. Obama has the same political dexterity as Mr. Clinton, who after all had been governor of a Southern state and had learned how to address conservative constituencies even in the service of more liberal goals. And Mr. Gingrich at times played into Mr. Clinton's hands, once complaining about being forced to leave Air Force One from the back steps.
''He made Bill Clinton look good,'' said former Representative Mickey Edwards, a Republican from Oklahoma who now directs the Aspen Institute-Rodel Fellowships in Public Leadership. ''But I don't think John Boehner will do that,'' he added, referring to the putative Republican speaker.
''I don't think he'll make the Republicans look bad, especially given that they're in touch with where so many people are today.''
Vin Weber, a former Republican representative from Minnesota who was a Gingrich ally, pointed to another president confronting a Congress of a different party: the first President George Bush. He fought with Democratic lawmakers and ultimately bore the blame for a bad economy, losing re-election in 1992 to Mr. Clinton.
''Who at the end of the day owns the economy after four years in office? The president of the United States does,'' Mr. Weber said. ''For him to argue that it's the fault of the do-nothing Congress -- it's been done before, but it doesn't seem likely this time.''
A Republican Congress will also have subpoena power to investigate all manner of activities. Both Mr. Clinton and the younger Mr. Bush saw their administrations subjected to sometimes withering scrutiny by an empowered opposition Congress. The memory of how a Whitewater investigation turned into a Clinton impeachment alone may be enough to keep Mr. Obama on the road working for Democratic candidates over the next week.
''Are there ways in which you can find a way to work both to your substantive and political advantage when the opposition's in power?'' asked John D. Podesta, who was Mr. Clinton's chief of staff. ''Clinton proved that, of course. But all things being equal, you'd rather have your friends holding the gavels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM DUKE)(WK1)
 ADVERSARY: President Clinton was able to play off Speaker Newt Gingrich, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); HISTORY (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



685 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3394 words

HEADLINE: The Ideological Divide

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL. 
Christopher Caldwell, a senior editor at The Weekly Standard, is the author of ''Reflections on the Revolution in Europe: Immigration, Islam, and the West.''

 BODY:
Within the space of a week last summer, one judge in Arizona, ruling in a suit brought by the Obama administration, blocked a provision in a new state law permitting police officers to check the status of suspected illegal immigrants, while another blocked the implementation of a California referendum banning gay marriage. The two decisions imposed liberal policies that public opinion opposed. These things happen, of course. Congress had acted contrary to measurable public opinion when it passed health care reform in March. What made the two judicial rulings different was that both seemed to challenge the principle that it is the people who have the last word on how they are governed.
American conservatives, most notably the activists who support various Tea Party groups, have a great variety of anxieties and grievances just now. But what unites them all, at least rhetorically, is the sense that something has gone wrong constitutionally, shutting them out of decisions that rightfully belong to them as citizens. This is why many talk about ''taking our country back.'' 
If polls are to be believed, conservatives should have no difficulty taking the country back or doing whatever else they want with it. Gallup now counts 54 percent of likely voters as self-described conservatives and only 18 per cent as liberals. More than half of Americans (55 per cent) say they have grown more conservative in the past year, according to the pollsters Scott Rasmussen and Doug Schoen in their new book, MAD AS HELL: How the Tea Party Movement Is Fundamentally Remaking Our Two-Party System (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99).
America's self-described conservatives, however, have a problem: They lack a party. While the Tea Party may look like a stalking horse for Republicans, the two have been a bad fit. Insurgents have cut a swath through Republicans' well-laid election plans. They helped oust Florida's party chairman. They toppled the favored candidates of the party establishment in Alaska, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Kentucky, New York, South Carolina, Utah and elsewhere.
More than 70 percent of Republicans embrace the Tea Party, but the feeling is not reciprocated. If conservatives could vote for the Tea Party as a party, they would prefer it to the Republicans, according to Rasmussen. (Lately, Rasmussen's polling, more than others', has favored Republicans. Not coincidentally, perhaps, it has picked up certain recent shifts earlier and more reliably -- like the surge that won the Republican Scott Brown the late Ted Kennedy's Massachusetts Senate seat in January.) Much of the Tea Party is made up of conservative-leaning independents. The journalist Jonathan Rauch has called these people ''debranded Republicans,'' and they are debranded for a reason -- 55 percent of them oppose the Republican leadership. While Republicans are likely to reap all the benefit of Tea Party enthusiasm in November's elections, this is a marriage of convenience. The influential conservative blogger Erick Erickson of RedState.com, insists that one of his top goals is denying the Republican establishment credit for any electoral successes.
Hence the Republicans' problem. After November, the party will need to reform in a conservative direction, in line with its base's wishes, and without a clear idea of whether the broader public will be well disposed to such reform.
How Republicans wound up in this situation requires one to state the obvious. Well before George W. Bush presided over the collapse of the global financial system, a reasonable-sounding case was being mustered that he was the worst president in history. Foreign policy was the grounds on which voters repudiated him and his party, starting in 2006, and President Obama's drawdown of forces in Iraq may be the most popular thing he has done. But foreign policy is unlikely to drive voters' long-term assessment of the parties. The Iraq misadventure was justified with the same spreading-democracy rhetoric that Bill Clinton, Madeleine Albright and other Democrats used to justify interventions in Haiti and the Balkans in the 1990s. President Obama's difficulties in resolving Afghanistan and closing Guantanamo show that Bush's options were narrower than they appeared at the time.
Republicans' future electoral fortunes will depend on domestic policy and specifically on whether they can reconnect with ''small-c'' conservatism -- the conservatism whose mottoes are ''Neither a borrower nor a lender be'' and ''Mind your own business,'' and the opposite of which is not liberalism but utopianism. The Bush administration was a time of ''big-C'' Conservatism, ideological conservatism, which the party pursued with mixed results. As far as social issues were concerned, this ideology riveted a vast bloc of religious conservatives to the party, and continues to be an electoral asset (although that bloc, by some measures, is shrinking). Had gay marriage not been on several state ballots in 2004, John Kerry might now be sitting in the White House.
Ideological conservatism also meant ''supply-side economics'' -- a misnomer for the doctrine that all tax cuts eventually pay for themselves through economic growth. The problem is, they don't. So supply-side wound up being a form of permanent Keynesian stimulus -- a bad idea during the overheated years before 2008. Huge tax cuts, from which the highest earners drew the biggest benefits, helped knock the budget out of balance and misallocated trillions of dollars. To a dispiriting degree, tax cuts remain the Republican answer to every economic question. Eric Cantor, potentially the House majority leader, told The Wall Street Journal that if Democrats went home without renewing various Bush-era tax cuts (which they did), ''I promise you, H.R. 1 will be to retroactively restore the lower rates.''
Until recently, supply side was political gravy for Republicans. It confirmed the rule that in American politics the party most plausibly offering something for nothing wins. In the 1980s, the New York congressman Jack Kemp was the archetype of an ambitious, magnanimous, ''sunny'' kind of Republican who let you keep more of your taxes while building more housing for the poor. Democrats who questioned the affordability of these policies sounded like killjoys. In a time of scarcity like our own, calculations change. Today your tax cut means shuttering someone else's AIDS clinic. Your welfare check comes off of someone else's dinner table.
Deficits in the Obama era are a multiple of the Bush ones, and the product of a more consciously pursued Keynesianism. But that does not absolve Republicans of the need to find a path to balancing the budget. With some exceptions -- like Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, a Kemp protege who has laid out a ''Road Map'' for reforming (i.e., cutting) Social Security in coming generations -- Republicans have not adjusted to zero-sum economics. There is certainly no credible path to budget balance in the ''Pledge to America'' released in late September.
Yet the case against supply-side economics can never be airtight or decisive, and Republican tax promises will probably help the party this year. That is because taxes are not just an economic benchmark, but a political one. The public should not expect more in services than it pays in taxes. But the government should not expect more in taxes than it offers in representation. And the number of Americans who feel poorly represented has risen alarmingly during the Obama administration.
Americans' feelings toward the president are complex. On the one hand, there is little of the ad hominem contempt that was in evidence during the Clinton and Bush administrations. There are no campaign spots showing a Congressional candidate's face morphing into Obama's. But the president's ideology, fairly or not, has provoked something approaching panic. Not many Americans agree that Obama is a closet totalitarian, as the Fox News host Glenn Beck has claimed. But they have serious misgivings of a milder kind.
In retrospect it looks inevitable that Republicans would have been punished by voters in 2008; but until Lehman Brothers collapsed in mid-September of that year, it was far from certain they would be, despite strong Democratic gains in the 2006 elections. Independent and Republican voters wanted an assurance that Senator Obama would not simply hand over power to the Democratic Party. He consistently provided it. The centerpiece of his campaign was a promise of post-partisanship. He introduced himself as a Senate candidate in 2004 at the Boston convention, deriding as false the tendency of pundits to ''slice and dice our country into red states and blue states'' -- a bracingly subversive thing to do at a partisan convention. He praised Ronald Reagan.
And in 2008 he got more than 52 percent of the vote, a higher percentage than many political consultants thought possible for a Democrat. That means he came into office unusually dependent on the good will of independents and Republicans. And yet, once in power, the president set to work enacting the agenda of the same Congressional Democrats he had implied he would keep at arm's length. No president in living memory has compiled a slenderer record of bipartisanship.
It is often said in the president's defense that Republican obstructionism left him no choice. Today, this is true -- and it has put an end, for now, to the productive part of his presidency. But it was not true at the time of the stimulus in early 2009, when the president's poll numbers were so stratospherically high that it appeared risky to oppose him on anything. Republicans certainly cannot be blamed for the way Democrats passed their health care bill. Whether or not the deal-making and parliamentary maneuvering required to secure passage was unprecedented, it was unprecedented in the era of C-Span and blogs, and many voters found it corrupt. The president's legislative program has been bought at a huge price in public discontent. The expression ''picking up nickels in front of a steamroller'' has been used to describe a lot of the gambles taken by A.I.G. and other companies on the eve of the financial crisis. It describes the president's agenda equally well.
It is vital to understand where this steamroller is coming from. According to Gallup, support for Obama has fallen only slightly among Democrats, from 90 percent to 81 percent, and only slightly among Republicans, from 20 percent to 12 percent. It is independents who have abandoned him: 56 percent approved of him when he came into office, versus 38 percent now. The reason the country is getting more conservative is not that conservatives are getting louder. It is that people in the dead center of the electorate are turning into conservatives at an astonishing rate.
The frustration and disappointment of these voters is probably directed as much at themselves as at their president. There were two ways to judge Obama the candidate -- by what he said or by the company he kept. The cable-TV loudmouths who dismissed Obama right off the bat were unfair in certain particulars. But, on the question of whether Obama, if elected, would be more liberal or more conservative than his campaign rhetoric indicated, they arrived at a more accurate assessment than those of us who pored over his speeches, parsed his interviews and read his first book.
Some wish the president had governed more to the left, insisting on a public option in the health care bill and pushing for a larger stimulus. But those people make up only a small fraction even of the 18 percent of voters who call themselves liberal. In a time of growing populism and distrust, Republicans enjoy the advantage of running against the party of the elite. This seems to be a controversial proposition, but it should not be. It is not the same as saying that Democrats are the party of elitism. One can define elitism as, say, resistance to progressive taxation, and make a case that Republicans better merit that description. But, broadly speaking, the Democratic Party is the party to which elites belong. It is the party of Harvard (and most of the Ivy League), of Microsoft and Apple (and most of Silicon Valley), of Hollywood and Manhattan (and most of the media) and, although there is some evidence that numbers are evening out in this election cycle, of Goldman Sachs (and most of the investment banking profession). That the billionaire David Koch's Americans for Prosperity Foundation supports the Tea Party has recently been much in the news. But the Democrats have the support of more, and more active, billionaires. Of the 20 richest ZIP codes in America, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, 19 gave the bulk of their money to Democrats in the last election, in most cases the vast bulk -- 86 percent in 10024 on the Upper West Side. Meanwhile, only 22 percent of non-high-school educated white males are happy with the direction the country is going in. The Democrats' overlap with elites leaves each party with a distinctive liability. The Democrats appear sincerely deluded about whom they actually represent. Democrats -- who would have no trouble discerning elite solidarity in the datum that, say, in the 1930s the upper ranks of Britain's media, church, business and political institutions were dominated by Tories -- somehow think their own predominance in similar precincts is . . . what? Coincidence? Irony?
Republicans, meanwhile, do not recognize the liability that their repudiation by elites represents in an age of expertise and specialization -- even in the eyes of the non-elite center of the country. Like a European workingman's party at the turn of the last century, the Republican Party today inspires doubts that it has the expertise required to run a large government bureaucracy. Whatever one thinks of Obama's economic team, and Bill Clinton's before it, the Bush White House was never capable, in eight years, of assembling a similarly accomplished one. Nor is there much evidence that Republicans were ever able to conceptualize the serious problems with the nation's medical system, let alone undertake to reform it on their own terms. ''Democrats and Republicans agree that our health care system is broken in fundamental ways,'' Eric Cantor notes in YOUNG GUNS: A New Generation of Conservative Leaders (Threshold, $15), a campaign book he has written with Paul Ryan and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California. Well, great. But for years now, Republicans discussing the availability and cost of health care have been like a kid who, when asked why he hasn't cleaned up his room, replies, ''I was just about to!''
It is in the context of class that Sarah Palin's two-year career on the American political scene is so significant. She ''almost seemed to set off a certain trip wire within the political class regarding access to power,'' as Rasmussen and Schoen put it. But it is not an ideological trip wire. The Alaska governorship that catapulted Palin onto the national scene requires dealing with oil executives and divvying up the money from their lease payments. It is a job for a pragmatist, not a preacher. Palin has sometimes opposed big government and sometimes favored it, as became clear when journalists discovered that, contrary to Palin's claims, she had been slow to oppose the wasteful Alaskan ''Bridge to Nowhere,'' which became a symbol of federal pork.
The controversies over Palin are about class (and markers of class, like religiosity), not ideology. She endorsed several underdog insurgent candidates who wound up winning Republican primaries in the spring and summer. How did she do that, when few observers -- no matter how well informed, no matter how close to the Republican base -- had given them a chance? Either Palin is a political idiot savant of such gifts that those who have questioned her intelligence should revise their opinion or, more likely, she is hearing signals from the median American that are inaudible to the governing classes -- like those frequencies that teenagers can hear but adults can't.
This talent alone does not make Palin a viable national leader. But until Republican politicians learn to understand the party's new base, Palin will be their indispensable dragoman. After November's election, the party will either reform or it will disappoint its most ardent backers. If it reforms, it is unlikely to be in a direction Palin disapproves of.
In The Ruling Class: How They Corrupted America and What We Can Do About It (American Spectator/Beaufort, paper, $12.95), Angelo M. Codevilla, an emeritus professor of international relations at Boston University who formerly was on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, gives a very interesting, conservative account of class politics. Codevilla sees the country as divided into ''the Ruling Class'' and ''the Country Class,'' who ''have less in common culturally, dislike each other more and embody ways of life more different from one another than did the 19th century's Northerners and Southerners.'' Codevilla's terms are often frustratingly vague. The Ruling Class, in his definition, includes top Democrats as well as Bush Republicans, despite their many differences; the Country Class seems sometimes to mean the passive remainder of the country, and sometimes the vanguard of ideological insurgents.
And yet Codevilla captures the texture of today's conservative grievances with admirable boldness and convincing exactitude. Slights are harder to tolerate than exactions, he finds: ''Day after day, the Ruling Class's imputations -- racist, stupid, prone to violence, incapable of running things -- hit like artillery cover for the advance of legislation and regulation to restrict and delegitimize.'' This is a polemic, and people wholly out of sympathy with conservatism will dislike it. But Codevilla makes what we might call the Tea Party case more soberly, bluntly and constructively than anyone else has done.
Codevilla takes seriously the constitutional preoccupations of today's conservative protesters and their professed desire for enhanced self-rule. He sees that the temptation merely to form ''an alternative Ruling Class'' in the mirror image of the last one would be self-defeating. Americans must instead reacquire the sinews of self-government, he thinks. Self-government is difficult and time-consuming. If it weren't, everyone would have it. The ''light'' social democratic rule that has prevailed for the past 80 years has taken a lot of the burdens of self-government off the shoulders of citizens. They were probably glad to be rid of them. Now, apparently, they are changing their minds.
Codevilla has no illusions about their prospects for success. Americans are not in the position to roll back their politics to before the time when Franklin D. Roosevelt or Woodrow Wilson or whoever-you-like ran roughshod over the Yankee yeomanry. Town, county and state governments no longer have much independent political identity. They are mere ''conduits for federal mandates,'' as Codevilla puts it. He notes that the 132 million Americans who inhabited the country in 1940 could vote on 117,000 school boards, while today a nation of 310 million votes in only 15,000 school districts. Self-rule depends on constitutional prerogatives that have long been revoked, institutions that have long been abandoned and habits of mind that were unlearned long ago. (Not to mention giving up Social Security and Medicare benefits that have already been paid for.) ''Does the Country Class really want to govern itself,'' Codevilla asks, ''or is it just whining for milder taskmasters?''
We will find out soon enough. With a victory in November, Republicans could claim a mandate to repeal the Obama health care law and roll back a good deal of recent stimulus-related spending, neither of which they've made any pretense of tolerating. But achieving the larger goal -- a citizenry sufficiently able to govern itself to be left alone by Washington -- will require more. The Republican Party's leaders will need to sit down respectfully with the people who brought them to power and figure out what they agree on. If Republicans make the error that Democrats did under President Obama, mistaking a protest vote for a wide mandate, the public will turn on them just as quickly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHEPARD FAIREY/OBEYGIANT.COM) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE) (BR17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); TEA (69%); WRITERS (64%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (62%); MARRIAGE (57%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TED KENNEDY (58%); SCOTT BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



686 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Fool Me Twice?

 BODY:
In 2004, America's multinational corporations offered Congress a deal: They would repatriate hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign profits -- to invest in new plants and create new jobs at home -- in exchange for a break from the 35 percent corporate tax rate imposed on overseas profits when they are brought into the country. 
A Republican-controlled Congress leapt at it, passing the Homeland Investment Act, which allowed companies to repatriate some $300 billion in 2005 and pay only 5.25 percent in taxes. As for all of those promised factories and jobs, they did not materialize. Research by three prominent economists, including Kristin Forbes, a former top economic adviser to President George W. Bush, found that between 60 and 92 cents of every dollar brought home found its way into shareholders' pockets.
The law required that companies use the repatriated money for productive purposes like research and hiring. That did not matter. Money being fungible, firms could easily claim they were not using ''those'' dollars on stock buybacks and executive pay.
American multinationals are at it again. In an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal, the chief executive of Cisco, John Chambers, and the president of Oracle, Safra Catz, estimated that American companies have about $1 trillion in profits stashed abroad that they could repatriate for the greater good of the American economy if taxes on that money were lowered to about 5 percent.
Congress should not be fooled again. Tax amnesties are extremely expensive. And what big corporation will ever repatriate profits at the standard rate when every few years it can expect to get another ''special'' break?
Large multinationals are not refraining from investing in the United States because their money is locked up abroad. Many have large piles of cash in the United States, too. Interest rates are near historic lows, and banks will trip over themselves to lend to big multinationals sitting on mountains of cash. If they are not investing, it is because of the uncertain economic outlook.
The Obama administration has given no sign of being interested in this deal. If lawmakers want to help all businesses invest more here, they should embrace the administration's call to let companies immediately write off the entire cost of their investments in facilities and equipment, rather than gradually amortize them.
Republicans in Congress oppose President Obama's proposal and support the tax holiday for foreign profits. Their priorities have not changed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); SAFRA A CATZ (53%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



687 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Rocking the Vote, In the 1820s and Now

BYLINE: By JON MEACHAM; Jon Meacham's biography of Andrew Jackson, ''American Lion,'' was awarded the 2009 Pulitzer Prize.

 BODY:
NOT long before Andrew Jackson's death in 1845, George P.A. Healy, the American portraitist, traveled south to Tennessee to paint Jackson and other statesmen -- including Henry Clay of Kentucky, an implacable Jackson foe. Healy was expected at Ashland, Clay's estate in Lexington, but overstayed his time at Jackson's Hermitage in Nashville. When Healy finally made his appearance in Kentucky, Clay knew that Jackson had won yet again. Clay did not bother hiding his jealousy and resignation, remarking to Healy, ''I see that you, like all who approached that man, were fascinated by him.''
On that, at least, Clay and Jackson would have agreed: the man known popularly as Old Hickory is endlessly intriguing. It is difficult, for instance, to envision a Broadway musical entitled ''Bloody Bloody Henry Clay,'' with the Compromise of 1850 set to rock music, or, say, ''Bloody Bloody John Quincy Adams,'' with a score centered on the Treaty of Ghent. 
''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson,'' which opened this month on Broadway, works beyond the level of biography. The show, which improbably traces Jackson's life, rise and legacy with a blend of low comedy, emo rock and 19th-century history, is about more than the riveting politician who was, in my view, the most important American leader between Jefferson and Lincoln.
The musical engages because the long-dead Jackson is a very modern figure: a self-invented hero of a new media age who led the nation through years of economic and racial turmoil in which conflicts between ''the people'' and ''the elites'' defined public life. Jackson is fascinating because we find ourselves fascinating.
Populism, power, race, money, celebrity and sex: the Jackson saga had everything we have now. Phrases from the show's script and songs (''morning in America,'' ''we're gonna take this country back'' among them) are meant to resonate, and Benjamin Walker's strutting, highly sexualized Jackson alternately evokes thoughts of George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and John Edwards. Scenes of angry voters raging against Washington elites and chants of ''Populism, Yea Yea'' will leave you thinking about the Tea Party. And the hilariously depicted capital cabal of Adams, Clay, John C. Calhoun and Martin Van Buren suggests that Beltway incumbents have been protecting themselves and their privileges since long before there was a Beltway.
The production, written and directed by Alex Timbers with music by Michael Friedman, renders Jackson's celebrity -- after becoming the hero of the Battle of New Orleans in 1815, he was the most celebrated American since George Washington -- in modern rock-star terms. The persona captures the essence of the historical Jacksonian phenomenon. To the establishment of the day (the Clays and the Adamses) Jackson and his crowd were dangerously subversive. Roughly put, the Jackson movement was to American politics in the 1820s and '30s what rock 'n' roll was to American culture in the 1950s and '60s: young, raw, unsettling.
Was Jackson a rock star? Yes, to an extent: He lived large and made no apologies. In the early summer of 1833, after his re-election, he toured the North, traveling from Baltimore to Boston. The crowds were staggering. He stood in the sun in Philadelphia for so long that his face blistered, but he refused to take shelter if there were people who wanted to lay eyes on him. ''He appeared to feel as a father surrounded by a numerous band of children,'' one newspaper said, ''happy in their affections and loving them with all a parent's love.''
His enemies found the ecstasy of the tour frightening. The cries of affection, said The Richmond Enquirer, ''were more like the homage of subjects to their ruler than of a free people toward their first magistrate.'' Henry Clay could not have put it better.
But there was substance beneath Jackson's sex appeal, and policy behind his popularity. Soldier, brawler, duelist, lover, he was the first president to be the target of assassination, and the only one to attack his assailant. Tough and wily, passionate and canny, Jackson created the modern presidency, and rewrote the script of American life to give the people a larger voice in its affairs than even the Founding Fathers -- who preferred government by the few rather than by the many -- envisioned. Before Jackson it was possible to think of America without taking the role of the people into account; after him such a thing was inconceivable. As Harry S. Truman once said, ''He wanted sincerely to look after the little fellow who had no pull, and that's what a president is supposed to do.''
Unless, of course, you were an American Indian. The depiction of Indian removal in ''Bloody Bloody'' makes the oft-overlooked point that most white Americans were complicit in the crime. Fact-checking imaginative interpretations of the past is more than a little pedantic. Is the show faithful to history? What do you think? One example is that the show gives Jackson something of a fictional out on the issue, implying that his parents were murdered by Indians and thus casting the ensuing decades of conquest and deceit as a revenge drama. Never happened.
Jackson embodied the greed of frontier whites who wanted the Indians' land. Nothing was going to stop them: not Congress, which passed a hard-fought removal bill; not the Supreme Court, which had a mixed record on the issue; not the Northern evangelicals, who supported the Indians (but only after their own lands had been secured).
We lament the bitterness of politics, the rise of partisan cable TV and the proliferation of Internet-based attacks and rumors. But as this production makes clear, there is nothing new under the sun.
Jackson's foes called his wife a bigamist (which, technically, she was) and his mother a whore (which she was not) who had allegedly been a ''prostitute who intermarried with a Negro.'' A New England Sunday School teacher once asked a child who killed Abel. The reply: ''General Jackson.'' John Quincy Adams, the sixth president, was horrified to learn that his beloved alma mater, Harvard University, was giving Jackson an honorary degree. Adams refused to attend, telling the university's president that he could not bear to witness Harvard's disgrace in recognizing ''a barbarian who could not write a sentence of grammar and hardly could spell his own name.''
Mr. Walker plays Jackson as a childish, temper-prone teenager who wants what he wants when he wants it. His Old Hickory is emotionally challenged and all too quick to fall into self-pity. The world of ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' is sophomoric; there is a good deal of collegiate humor here. While this largely works theatrically, it does shortchange the historical Jackson, who was a more sophisticated operator than many Americans in his own age and since have appreciated.
Once, during a crisis over the Bank of the United States, he frightened a group of callers who had come to ask for economic relief. They left, terrified that crossing the president was fatal. Afterward Jackson's apparent fury evaporated instantly. ''Didn't I manage them well?'' he smilingly asked an aide. It had all been for show -- and he got his way.
As a politician Jackson is at once inspiring and cautionary, particularly in a season of discontent in which charismatic but not especially subtle leaders dominate the field. (I think this point is beyond ''refudiation.'') The route between democratic populism and demagoguery is a short one, a point the show makes well. Elected amid a popular frenzy, the Broadway Jackson soon learns that it is easier to give a speech than it is to solve a problem. In its grasp of the dangers and limitations of populism, this is a Broadway production that feels more in touch with political reality than, say, Fox News.
If a popular politician has charisma with no conscience, then we are lost. Thankfully, the real Jackson knew that power was not to be taken or exercised lightly. ''Great is the stake placed in our hands,'' he once remarked of America, ''great is the responsibility which must rest upon the people of the United States.''
In the end the people are the real stars of the show, and it is crucial to remember that any blood that is spilled is really on our hands too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrew Jackson, right, the charismatic war hero who became the first populist president, is depicted by Benjamin Walker, below left, as a rock star in the Broadway musical ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); POP & ROCK (88%); MUSIC (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (71%); BILL CLINTON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson (Play)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



688 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MALLOY, HENRY LAWRENCE

 BODY:
MALLOY--Henry Lawrence, of Waccabuc, NY passed away on October 22, 2010 after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in New York City on January 26, 1931, the son of Henry Thomas Malloy and Ellen Neville Malloy. He graduated from Mamaroneck High School, class of 1948, attended Colby College, and graduated from Villanova College with a BS in Economics, class of 1953. Mr. Malloy enlisted in the US Navy from 1953 to 1955 attaining the rank of Lieutenant. 
His employment career spanned from Hearst Publishing, BBD&O advertising agency, Bergdorf Goodman as head of customer service and then onto Republic Hogg Robinson currently known as Wells Fargo Insurance where he retired as Vice President in P&C insurance. He was also a former member of Westchester Country Club in Rye, NY, and an active member of Waccabuc Country Club in Waccabuc, NY, Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, NY, and Stratton Mountain Country Club in Stratton, VT and The Turf and Field Club. He married the former Vivien Goodman on January 12, 1957. He is survived by his wife Vivien Malloy; five children: Andrew of Castle Rock, CO, Debby Winkler of Warendorf Germany, Kenneth of Rye, NY, Mark of Los Angeles, CA and Vivi Hanson of Chicago, IL; grandchildren: Courtney, Conor, Caitlin, Maggie, Kenny Jr., Shane, Owen and Julia, step granddaughter Bailey, step grandson Jack, and Lily; one brother John N. Malloy of Harrison, NY. Henry, known to all his friends as Harry, enjoyed golf above all the other activities that he shared with so many family and friends. He fell in love with Stratton Mountain in 1968 and spent weekends and holidays there skiing with his family. As owner of New York's Edition Farm, he enjoyed his time at the races rooting for his thoroughbreds. There will be many friends that will miss his great sense of humor and camaraderie they shared with him over the years. Contributions can be made to the charity of one's choice in honor of Henry L. Malloy. The family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, Rye, NY, on Monday from 4pm-8pm. A mass of Christian Burial will be held at the Church of the Resurrection on Tuesday at 10am.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CALENDARS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); GOLF (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); SKIING (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); NAVIES (71%); CHARITIES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (57%); WELLS FARGO INSURANCE SERVICES (57%); HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC (57%); WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB INC (56%); ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL AS (55%)

TICKER: HRG (LSE) (57%); ROCK.B (CPH) (55%); ROCK.A (CPH) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (56%); SIC7997 MEMBERSHIP SPORTS & RECREATION CLUBS (56%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010



689 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3394 words

HEADLINE: The Ideological Divide

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL. 
Christopher Caldwell, a senior editor at The Weekly Standard, is the author of ''Reflections on the Revolution in Europe: Immigration, Islam, and the West.''

 BODY:
Within the space of a week last summer, one judge in Arizona, ruling in a suit brought by the Obama administration, blocked a provision in a new state law permitting police officers to check the status of suspected illegal immigrants, while another blocked the implementation of a California referendum banning gay marriage. The two decisions imposed liberal policies that public opinion opposed. These things happen, of course. Congress had acted contrary to measurable public opinion when it passed health care reform in March. What made the two judicial rulings different was that both seemed to challenge the principle that it is the people who have the last word on how they are governed.
American conservatives, most notably the activists who support various Tea Party groups, have a great variety of anxieties and grievances just now. But what unites them all, at least rhetorically, is the sense that something has gone wrong constitutionally, shutting them out of decisions that rightfully belong to them as citizens. This is why many talk about ''taking our country back.'' 
If polls are to be believed, conservatives should have no difficulty taking the country back or doing whatever else they want with it. Gallup now counts 54 percent of likely voters as self-described conservatives and only 18 per cent as liberals. More than half of Americans (55 per cent) say they have grown more conservative in the past year, according to the pollsters Scott Rasmussen and Doug Schoen in their new book, MAD AS HELL: How the Tea Party Movement Is Fundamentally Remaking Our Two-Party System (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99).
America's self-described conservatives, however, have a problem: They lack a party. While the Tea Party may look like a stalking horse for Republicans, the two have been a bad fit. Insurgents have cut a swath through Republicans' well-laid election plans. They helped oust Florida's party chairman. They toppled the favored candidates of the party establishment in Alaska, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Kentucky, New York, South Carolina, Utah and elsewhere.
More than 70 percent of Republicans embrace the Tea Party, but the feeling is not reciprocated. If conservatives could vote for the Tea Party as a party, they would prefer it to the Republicans, according to Rasmussen. (Lately, Rasmussen's polling, more than others', has favored Republicans. Not coincidentally, perhaps, it has picked up certain recent shifts earlier and more reliably -- like the surge that won the Republican Scott Brown the late Ted Kennedy's Massachusetts Senate seat in January.) Much of the Tea Party is made up of conservative-leaning independents. The journalist Jonathan Rauch has called these people ''debranded Republicans,'' and they are debranded for a reason -- 55 percent of them oppose the Republican leadership. While Republicans are likely to reap all the benefit of Tea Party enthusiasm in November's elections, this is a marriage of convenience. The influential conservative blogger Erick Erickson of RedState.com, insists that one of his top goals is denying the Republican establishment credit for any electoral successes.
Hence the Republicans' problem. After November, the party will need to reform in a conservative direction, in line with its base's wishes, and without a clear idea of whether the broader public will be well disposed to such reform.
How Republicans wound up in this situation requires one to state the obvious. Well before George W. Bush presided over the collapse of the global financial system, a reasonable-sounding case was being mustered that he was the worst president in history. Foreign policy was the grounds on which voters repudiated him and his party, starting in 2006, and President Obama's drawdown of forces in Iraq may be the most popular thing he has done. But foreign policy is unlikely to drive voters' long-term assessment of the parties. The Iraq misadventure was justified with the same spreading-democracy rhetoric that Bill Clinton, Madeleine Albright and other Democrats used to justify interventions in Haiti and the Balkans in the 1990s. President Obama's difficulties in resolving Afghanistan and closing Guantanamo show that Bush's options were narrower than they appeared at the time.
Republicans' future electoral fortunes will depend on domestic policy and specifically on whether they can reconnect with ''small-c'' conservatism -- the conservatism whose mottoes are ''Neither a borrower nor a lender be'' and ''Mind your own business,'' and the opposite of which is not liberalism but utopianism. The Bush administration was a time of ''big-C'' Conservatism, ideological conservatism, which the party pursued with mixed results. As far as social issues were concerned, this ideology riveted a vast bloc of religious conservatives to the party, and continues to be an electoral asset (although that bloc, by some measures, is shrinking). Had gay marriage not been on several state ballots in 2004, John Kerry might now be sitting in the White House.
Ideological conservatism also meant ''supply-side economics'' -- a misnomer for the doctrine that all tax cuts eventually pay for themselves through economic growth. The problem is, they don't. So supply-side wound up being a form of permanent Keynesian stimulus -- a bad idea during the overheated years before 2008. Huge tax cuts, from which the highest earners drew the biggest benefits, helped knock the budget out of balance and misallocated trillions of dollars. To a dispiriting degree, tax cuts remain the Republican answer to every economic question. Eric Cantor, potentially the House majority leader, told The Wall Street Journal that if Democrats went home without renewing various Bush-era tax cuts (which they did), ''I promise you, H.R. 1 will be to retroactively restore the lower rates.''
Until recently, supply side was political gravy for Republicans. It confirmed the rule that in American politics the party most plausibly offering something for nothing wins. In the 1980s, the New York congressman Jack Kemp was the archetype of an ambitious, magnanimous, ''sunny'' kind of Republican who let you keep more of your taxes while building more housing for the poor. Democrats who questioned the affordability of these policies sounded like killjoys. In a time of scarcity like our own, calculations change. Today your tax cut means shuttering someone else's AIDS clinic. Your welfare check comes off of someone else's dinner table.
Deficits in the Obama era are a multiple of the Bush ones, and the product of a more consciously pursued Keynesianism. But that does not absolve Republicans of the need to find a path to balancing the budget. With some exceptions -- like Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, a Kemp protege who has laid out a ''Road Map'' for reforming (i.e., cutting) Social Security in coming generations -- Republicans have not adjusted to zero-sum economics. There is certainly no credible path to budget balance in the ''Pledge to America'' released in late September.
Yet the case against supply-side economics can never be airtight or decisive, and Republican tax promises will probably help the party this year. That is because taxes are not just an economic benchmark, but a political one. The public should not expect more in services than it pays in taxes. But the government should not expect more in taxes than it offers in representation. And the number of Americans who feel poorly represented has risen alarmingly during the Obama administration.
Americans' feelings toward the president are complex. On the one hand, there is little of the ad hominem contempt that was in evidence during the Clinton and Bush administrations. There are no campaign spots showing a Congressional candidate's face morphing into Obama's. But the president's ideology, fairly or not, has provoked something approaching panic. Not many Americans agree that Obama is a closet totalitarian, as the Fox News host Glenn Beck has claimed. But they have serious misgivings of a milder kind.
In retrospect it looks inevitable that Republicans would have been punished by voters in 2008; but until Lehman Brothers collapsed in mid-September of that year, it was far from certain they would be, despite strong Democratic gains in the 2006 elections. Independent and Republican voters wanted an assurance that Senator Obama would not simply hand over power to the Democratic Party. He consistently provided it. The centerpiece of his campaign was a promise of post-partisanship. He introduced himself as a Senate candidate in 2004 at the Boston convention, deriding as false the tendency of pundits to ''slice and dice our country into red states and blue states'' -- a bracingly subversive thing to do at a partisan convention. He praised Ronald Reagan.
And in 2008 he got more than 52 percent of the vote, a higher percentage than many political consultants thought possible for a Democrat. That means he came into office unusually dependent on the good will of independents and Republicans. And yet, once in power, the president set to work enacting the agenda of the same Congressional Democrats he had implied he would keep at arm's length. No president in living memory has compiled a slenderer record of bipartisanship.
It is often said in the president's defense that Republican obstructionism left him no choice. Today, this is true -- and it has put an end, for now, to the productive part of his presidency. But it was not true at the time of the stimulus in early 2009, when the president's poll numbers were so stratospherically high that it appeared risky to oppose him on anything. Republicans certainly cannot be blamed for the way Democrats passed their health care bill. Whether or not the deal-making and parliamentary maneuvering required to secure passage was unprecedented, it was unprecedented in the era of C-Span and blogs, and many voters found it corrupt. The president's legislative program has been bought at a huge price in public discontent. The expression ''picking up nickels in front of a steamroller'' has been used to describe a lot of the gambles taken by A.I.G. and other companies on the eve of the financial crisis. It describes the president's agenda equally well.
It is vital to understand where this steamroller is coming from. According to Gallup, support for Obama has fallen only slightly among Democrats, from 90 percent to 81 percent, and only slightly among Republicans, from 20 percent to 12 percent. It is independents who have abandoned him: 56 percent approved of him when he came into office, versus 38 percent now. The reason the country is getting more conservative is not that conservatives are getting louder. It is that people in the dead center of the electorate are turning into conservatives at an astonishing rate.
The frustration and disappointment of these voters is probably directed as much at themselves as at their president. There were two ways to judge Obama the candidate -- by what he said or by the company he kept. The cable-TV loudmouths who dismissed Obama right off the bat were unfair in certain particulars. But, on the question of whether Obama, if elected, would be more liberal or more conservative than his campaign rhetoric indicated, they arrived at a more accurate assessment than those of us who pored over his speeches, parsed his interviews and read his first book.
Some wish the president had governed more to the left, insisting on a public option in the health care bill and pushing for a larger stimulus. But those people make up only a small fraction even of the 18 percent of voters who call themselves liberal. In a time of growing populism and distrust, Republicans enjoy the advantage of running against the party of the elite. This seems to be a controversial proposition, but it should not be. It is not the same as saying that Democrats are the party of elitism. One can define elitism as, say, resistance to progressive taxation, and make a case that Republicans better merit that description. But, broadly speaking, the Democratic Party is the party to which elites belong. It is the party of Harvard (and most of the Ivy League), of Microsoft and Apple (and most of Silicon Valley), of Hollywood and Manhattan (and most of the media) and, although there is some evidence that numbers are evening out in this election cycle, of Goldman Sachs (and most of the investment banking profession). That the billionaire David Koch's Americans for Prosperity Foundation supports the Tea Party has recently been much in the news. But the Democrats have the support of more, and more active, billionaires. Of the 20 richest ZIP codes in America, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, 19 gave the bulk of their money to Democrats in the last election, in most cases the vast bulk -- 86 percent in 10024 on the Upper West Side. Meanwhile, only 22 percent of non-high-school educated white males are happy with the direction the country is going in. The Democrats' overlap with elites leaves each party with a distinctive liability. The Democrats appear sincerely deluded about whom they actually represent. Democrats -- who would have no trouble discerning elite solidarity in the datum that, say, in the 1930s the upper ranks of Britain's media, church, business and political institutions were dominated by Tories -- somehow think their own predominance in similar precincts is . . . what? Coincidence? Irony?
Republicans, meanwhile, do not recognize the liability that their repudiation by elites represents in an age of expertise and specialization -- even in the eyes of the non-elite center of the country. Like a European workingman's party at the turn of the last century, the Republican Party today inspires doubts that it has the expertise required to run a large government bureaucracy. Whatever one thinks of Obama's economic team, and Bill Clinton's before it, the Bush White House was never capable, in eight years, of assembling a similarly accomplished one. Nor is there much evidence that Republicans were ever able to conceptualize the serious problems with the nation's medical system, let alone undertake to reform it on their own terms. ''Democrats and Republicans agree that our health care system is broken in fundamental ways,'' Eric Cantor notes in YOUNG GUNS: A New Generation of Conservative Leaders (Threshold, $15), a campaign book he has written with Paul Ryan and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California. Well, great. But for years now, Republicans discussing the availability and cost of health care have been like a kid who, when asked why he hasn't cleaned up his room, replies, ''I was just about to!''
It is in the context of class that Sarah Palin's two-year career on the American political scene is so significant. She ''almost seemed to set off a certain trip wire within the political class regarding access to power,'' as Rasmussen and Schoen put it. But it is not an ideological trip wire. The Alaska governorship that catapulted Palin onto the national scene requires dealing with oil executives and divvying up the money from their lease payments. It is a job for a pragmatist, not a preacher. Palin has sometimes opposed big government and sometimes favored it, as became clear when journalists discovered that, contrary to Palin's claims, she had been slow to oppose the wasteful Alaskan ''Bridge to Nowhere,'' which became a symbol of federal pork.
The controversies over Palin are about class (and markers of class, like religiosity), not ideology. She endorsed several underdog insurgent candidates who wound up winning Republican primaries in the spring and summer. How did she do that, when few observers -- no matter how well informed, no matter how close to the Republican base -- had given them a chance? Either Palin is a political idiot savant of such gifts that those who have questioned her intelligence should revise their opinion or, more likely, she is hearing signals from the median American that are inaudible to the governing classes -- like those frequencies that teenagers can hear but adults can't.
This talent alone does not make Palin a viable national leader. But until Republican politicians learn to understand the party's new base, Palin will be their indispensable dragoman. After November's election, the party will either reform or it will disappoint its most ardent backers. If it reforms, it is unlikely to be in a direction Palin disapproves of.
In The Ruling Class: How They Corrupted America and What We Can Do About It (American Spectator/Beaufort, paper, $12.95), Angelo M. Codevilla, an emeritus professor of international relations at Boston University who formerly was on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, gives a very interesting, conservative account of class politics. Codevilla sees the country as divided into ''the Ruling Class'' and ''the Country Class,'' who ''have less in common culturally, dislike each other more and embody ways of life more different from one another than did the 19th century's Northerners and Southerners.'' Codevilla's terms are often frustratingly vague. The Ruling Class, in his definition, includes top Democrats as well as Bush Republicans, despite their many differences; the Country Class seems sometimes to mean the passive remainder of the country, and sometimes the vanguard of ideological insurgents.
And yet Codevilla captures the texture of today's conservative grievances with admirable boldness and convincing exactitude. Slights are harder to tolerate than exactions, he finds: ''Day after day, the Ruling Class's imputations -- racist, stupid, prone to violence, incapable of running things -- hit like artillery cover for the advance of legislation and regulation to restrict and delegitimize.'' This is a polemic, and people wholly out of sympathy with conservatism will dislike it. But Codevilla makes what we might call the Tea Party case more soberly, bluntly and constructively than anyone else has done.
Codevilla takes seriously the constitutional preoccupations of today's conservative protesters and their professed desire for enhanced self-rule. He sees that the temptation merely to form ''an alternative Ruling Class'' in the mirror image of the last one would be self-defeating. Americans must instead reacquire the sinews of self-government, he thinks. Self-government is difficult and time-consuming. If it weren't, everyone would have it. The ''light'' social democratic rule that has prevailed for the past 80 years has taken a lot of the burdens of self-government off the shoulders of citizens. They were probably glad to be rid of them. Now, apparently, they are changing their minds.
Codevilla has no illusions about their prospects for success. Americans are not in the position to roll back their politics to before the time when Franklin D. Roosevelt or Woodrow Wilson or whoever-you-like ran roughshod over the Yankee yeomanry. Town, county and state governments no longer have much independent political identity. They are mere ''conduits for federal mandates,'' as Codevilla puts it. He notes that the 132 million Americans who inhabited the country in 1940 could vote on 117,000 school boards, while today a nation of 310 million votes in only 15,000 school districts. Self-rule depends on constitutional prerogatives that have long been revoked, institutions that have long been abandoned and habits of mind that were unlearned long ago. (Not to mention giving up Social Security and Medicare benefits that have already been paid for.) ''Does the Country Class really want to govern itself,'' Codevilla asks, ''or is it just whining for milder taskmasters?''
We will find out soon enough. With a victory in November, Republicans could claim a mandate to repeal the Obama health care law and roll back a good deal of recent stimulus-related spending, neither of which they've made any pretense of tolerating. But achieving the larger goal -- a citizenry sufficiently able to govern itself to be left alone by Washington -- will require more. The Republican Party's leaders will need to sit down respectfully with the people who brought them to power and figure out what they agree on. If Republicans make the error that Democrats did under President Obama, mistaking a protest vote for a wide mandate, the public will turn on them just as quickly.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY SHEPARD FAIREY/OBEYGIANT.COM) (BR1) (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE) (BR17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); TEA (69%); WRITERS (64%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (62%); MARRIAGE (57%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TED KENNEDY (58%); SCOTT BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



690 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: The British Ax, If Imported Here

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
With British leaders announcing sharp government cuts, French workers protesting their government's decision to raise the retirement age, and Republican Congressional candidates promising to unplug the federal A.T.M. the minute they arrive in Washington, austerity is the fall's dominant political trend.
And for Americans still furious over the weak economic recovery, the obvious question is: How much worse will things become if and when the budget guillotine falls here? Could cuts of British magnitude be in the offing? 
Theoretically, the enormous United States debt -- $13.7 trillion and climbing -- might conjure up a bleak scenario: more than a million public employees laid off; virtually everything else in the government including the military would face cuts; social welfare safety nets torn down; research programs canceled; national parks left untended; arts and cultural institutions abandoned.
But as foreboding as the forecast may be -- especially over the long term, as Social Security and Medicare are pushed to the edge of collapse -- the relative economic strength and leverage of the United States mean that cuts as steep and as fast-acting as Britain's can be averted.
The gently named ''spending review'' announced last week by Prime Minister David Cameron and the chancellor of the exchequer, George Osborne, seeks to erase most of their nation's structural deficit within five years, effectively closing a deficit of more than 11 percent of economic output by slashing spending and raising taxes.
The British plan includes a few increases, notably for the government-run health care system. Almost all other departments
would face a freeze or cuts, resulting in an average reduction of 19 percent; 490,000 public jobs would be eliminated. Even the military and support for the royal family would face reductions. The austerity program is the most drastic in Britain in 60 years, and it is difficult to envision something at the same scale in the United States. Some economists say it would also be ill-advised, because such a quick contraction of government spending by the United States would reverberate forcefully across the world economy and risk another recession.
The bipartisan fiscal commission appointed by President Obama and due to report its recommendations on Dec. 1 is working toward a much more modest goal of cutting the projected deficit for 2015 by one-third, not eliminating it, as Mr. Cameron seeks to do.
The slower approach is possible in part because the United States starts off in a stronger position. Federal government spending in the United States is a smaller percentage of gross domestic product than it is in Britain -- in part because individual states are responsible for much of their own budgets and they have already made significant cuts. Britain also already taxes its citizens more heavily.
''You would usually be comfortable spreading the cuts over time,'' said Simon Johnson, a professor of global economics and management at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management. ''The British are definitely front-loading.''
The coalition government now ruling in Britain has also made it easier to forge political compromise over the spending plan. In the United States, similar, if slower-acting, reductions could prove politically difficult to enact in Congress and would do little to address the bigger, long-term fiscal problems, stemming from Medicare and Social Security.
Both parties have put forward proposals that pose little political risk. President Obama, in his budget, has already called for a three-year freeze on nonsecurity discretionary spending beginning this year. The House Republican leader, John A. Boehner, who would be speaker if his party wins a majority, has called for immediate cuts in nonsecurity discretionary spending to 2008 levels, totaling about $105 billion.
But discretionary spending -- on things like the military, education, energy, transportation, the interior -- is just one-third of the federal budget. And because nonsecurity discretionary spending is just one-quarter of that, those cuts would not make much of a dent.
Another way to tackle the deficit, of course, would be to raise taxes. Britain is increasing its value-added tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent. Politically, however, raising taxes has become almost impossible in Congress.
The main tax debate, expected after the election, is over the expiring Bush-era tax cuts. Mr. Obama's plan, to continue the low rates only for families earning up to $250,000 and individuals earning up to $200,000, would add more than $3 trillion to the deficit. The Republican plan to extend all the cuts would add more than $4 trillion.
The real challenge for federal officials is dealing with the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare. The British plan would speed up an increase in the retirement age to 66 from 65. But the United States has already raised the retirement age to 66, and it is headed to 67 in 2022.
Comparisons to Britain are difficult in part because its national government controls spending in many areas, like education or policing, that are handled predominantly by the states in America. In that sense, some states might offer a preview of what the drastic cuts will look like in Britain. Because states typically cannot run deficits, they have been forced to lay off workers and cut programs.
A study by the National Governors Association found that general expenditures by states fell by more than 10 percent from 2008 to 2010.
Pennsylvania has started forcing state workers to contribute toward health insurance costs; California pushed through reductions in pension benefits and a new employee contribution requirement; Virginia imposed a hiring freeze.
''If anybody thinks it's impossible to do that kind of thing here, you have got 50 governors that have gone through a Cameron-style exercise,'' said an official close to the White House. ''And they had to do it in two years, not five.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ED NACIONAL)
 CHARTS: Comparisons Across the Pond (Source: International Monetary Fund) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE OSBORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



691 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Owners Seek to Sell at a Loss, But Bankers Push Foreclosure

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Bank of America and GMAC are firing up their formidable foreclosure machines again today, after a brief pause.
But hard-pressed homeowners like Lydia Sweetland are asking why lenders often balk at a less disruptive solution: short sales, which allow owners to sell deeply devalued homes for less than what remains on their mortgage.
Ms. Sweetland, 47, tried such a sale this summer out of desperation. She had lost her high-paying job and drained her once-flush retirement savings, and her bank, GMAC, wouldn't modify her mortgage. After seven months of being unable to pay her mortgage, she decided that a short sale would give her more time to move out of her Phoenix home and damage her credit rating less than a foreclosure.
She owes $206,000 and found a buyer who would pay $200,000. Last Friday, GMAC rejected that offer and said it would foreclose in seven days, even though, according to Ms. Sweetland's broker, the bank estimates it will make $19,000 less on a foreclosure than on a short sale. 
''I guess I could salute and say, 'O.K., I'm walking, here's the keys,' '' says Ms. Sweetland, as she sits in a plastic Adirondack chair on her patio. ''But I need a little time, and I don't want to just leave the house vacant. I loved this neighborhood.''
GMAC declined to be interviewed about Ms. Sweetland's case.
The halt in most foreclosures the last few weeks gave a hint of hope to homeowners like Ms. Sweetland, who found breathing room to pursue alternatives. Consumer advocates took the view that this might pressure banks to offer mortgage modifications on better terms and perhaps drive interest in short sales, which are rising sharply in many corners of the nation.
But some major lenders took a quick inventory of their foreclosure practices and insisted their processes were sound. They now seem intent on resuming foreclosures. And that could have a profound effect on many homeowners.
In Arizona, thousands of homeowners have turned to short sales to avoid foreclosures, and many end up running a daunting procedural gantlet. Several of the largest lenders have set up complicated and balky application systems.
Concerns about fraud are one of the reasons lenders are so careful about short sales. Sometimes well-off homeowners want to portray their finances as dire and cut their losses on a property. In other instances, distressed homeowners try to make a short sale to a relative, who would then sell it back to them (a practice that is illegal). A recent industry report estimates that short sale fraud occurs in at least 2 percent of sales and costs banks about $300 million annually.
Short sales are also hindered when homeowners fail to forward the proper papers, have tax liens or cannot find a buyer.
Because of such concerns, homeowners often are instructed that they must be delinquent and they must apply for a modification first, even if chances of approval are slim. The aversion to short sales also leads banks to take many months to process applications, and some lenders set unrealistically high sales prices -- known as broker price opinions -- and hire workers who say they are poorly trained.
As a result, quite a few homeowners seeking short sales -- banks will not provide precise numbers -- topple into foreclosure, sometimes, critics say, for reasons that are hard to understand. Ms. Sweetland and her broker say they are confounded by her foreclosure, because in Arizona's depressed real estate market, foreclosed homes often sit vacant for many months before banks are able to resell them.
''Banks are historically reluctant to do short sales, fearing that somehow the homeowner is getting an advantage on them,'' said Diane E. Thompson, of counsel to the National Consumer Law Center. ''There's this irrational belief that if you foreclose and hold on to the property for six months, somehow prices will rebound.''
Homeowners, advocates and realty agents offer particularly pointed criticism of Bank of America, the nation's largest servicer of mortgages, and a recipient of billions of dollars in federal bailout aid. Its holdings account for 31 percent of the pending foreclosures in Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix and Scottsdale, according to an analysis for The Arizona Republic.
The bank instructs real estate agents to use its computer program to evaluate short sales. But in three cases observed by The New York Times in collaboration with two real estate agents, the bank's system repeatedly asked for and lost the same information and generated inaccurate responses.
In half a dozen more cases examined by The New York Times, Bank of America rejected short sale offers, foreclosed and auctioned off houses at lower prices.
''When I hear that a client's mortgage is held by Bank of America, I just sigh. Our chances of getting an approval for them just went from 90 percent to 50-50,'' said Benjamin Toma, who has a family-run real estate agency in Phoenix.
Bank of America officials also declined interview requests. A Bank of America spokeswoman said in an e-mail that the bank had processed 61,000 short sales nationwide this year; she declined to provide numbers for Arizona or to discuss criticisms of the company's processing.
Fannie Mae, the mortgage finance company with federal backing, gives cash incentives to encourage servicers, who are affiliated with banks and who oversee great bundles of delinquent mortgages, to approve short sales.
But less obvious financial incentives can push toward a foreclosure rather than a short sale. Servicers can reap high fees from foreclosures. And lenders can try to collect on private mortgage insurance.
Some advocates and real estate agents also point to an April 2009 regulatory change in an obscure federal accounting law. The change, in effect, allowed banks to foreclose on a home without having to write down a loss until that home was sold. By contrast, if a bank agrees to a short sale, it must mark the loss immediately.
Short sales, to be sure, are no free ride for homeowners. They take a hit to their credit ratings, although for three to five years rather than seven after a foreclosure. An owner seeking a short sale must satisfy a laundry list of conditions, including making a detailed disclosure of income, tax and credit liens. And owners must prove that they have no connection to the buyer.
Still, bank decision-making, at least from a homeowner's perspective, often appears arbitrary. That is certainly the view of Nicholas Yannuzzi, who after 30 years in Arizona still talks with a Philadelphia rasp. Mr. Yannuzzi has owned five houses over time, without any financial problems. When his wife was diagnosed with bone cancer, he put 20 percent down and bought a ranch house in North Scottsdale so that she would not have to climb stairs.
In the last few years, his wife died, he lost his job and he used his retirement fund to pay his mortgage for five months. His bank, Wells Fargo, denied his mortgage modification request and then his request for a short sale.
The bank officer told him that Fannie Mae, which held the mortgage, would not take a discount. At the end of last week, he was waiting to be locked out of his home.
''I'm a proud man. I've worked since I was 20 years old,'' he said. ''But I've run out of my 79 weeks of unemployment, so that's it.''
He shrugged. ''I try to keep in the frame of mind that a lot of people have it worse than me.''
Back in Phoenix, Ms. Sweetland's real estate agent, Sherry Rampy, appeared to receive good news last week. GMAC re-examined her client's application and suggested it might be approved.
But the bank attached a condition: Ms. Sweetland must come up with $2,000 in closing costs or pay $100 a month for 50 months to the bank. Ms. Sweetland, however, is flat broke.
A late afternoon desert sun angles across her Pasadena neighborhood.
''After this, I'll never buy again,'' Ms. Sweetland says. ''This is not the American dream. This is not my American dream.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GMAC declined a short sale for Lydia Sweetland's home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); CONSUMER LAW (63%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



692 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: The Great Bailout Backlash

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Nothing in this election season, no program or party or politician, is less popular than the Troubled Asset Relief Program of 2008 -- a k a the Wall Street bailout. No policy has fewer public figures willing to defend it, and fewer Americans who believe it worked. No issue has done more to stoke the fires of populist backlash, and the rage against elites.
It was TARP that first turned Tea Partiers against Republican incumbents, and independents against Washington. It was TARP that steadily undermined Barack Obama's agenda, by making activist government seem like a game rigged to benefit privileged insiders. And it is TARP that's spurred this campaign cycle's only outbreak of bipartisanship: as of September, Politico's Ben Smith noted recently, the two parties had combined to spend about $80 million on attack ads that invoke the bailout, with the Democrats alone accounting for $53 million of that spending. 
The question is whether the program's extraordinary unpopularity is justified. Few elected officials may be willing to argue for the bailout, but plenty of policy wonks will make the case (from the safety of their think tanks) that the Wall Street rescue package is actually ''one of the most unfairly maligned policy initiatives of all time,'' as the Center for American Progress's Matthew Yglesias recently put it.
This case was strengthened by the news that the bailout might actually end up costing the taxpayer less than $50 billion over all, rather than the $700 billion originally set aside to pay for it. Moreover, it's the auto bailout, which the TARP funds eventually underwrote as well, that's likely to end up being responsible for the bulk of these losses. As it stands, the federal government may actually end up turning a modest profit on the money injected into Wall Street's failing banks.
Given what seemed to be at stake in the fall of '08, TARP's defenders argue, that doesn't seem like such a bad bargain: the bailout may have averted a Great Depression, and it didn't end up costing very much at all.
Or at least it didn't cost much if you accept that the ends of public policy justify the means. But of course it was the means of TARP, not its final impact on the country's balance sheet, that made it so unpopular.
The bailout became law because the legislative branch was stampeded with the threats of certain doom. It vested unprecedented economic authority in a single unelected official, the secretary of the Treasury. And it used public funds to insulate well-connected private actors from the consequences of their recklessness. Its creation short-circuited republican self-government, and its execution created moral hazard on an epic scale. It may have been an economic necessity, but it felt like a travesty nonetheless.
This is why it should be possible to both sympathize with the politicians who voted for the bailout and welcome their rebuke at the ballot box. Faced with extraordinary circumstances -- wars, natural disasters, economic crises -- political leaders will always incline toward a blunt utilitarianism, in which the need for stability trumps more high-minded ideals. But after a crisis has passed, it's immensely important that the ideals reassert themselves, so that the moral compromises made amid extraordinary times aren't repeated in ordinary ones as well.
This point is starkly obvious in wartime. It was understandable, if not necessarily laudable, that Harry Truman used the atomic bomb against Japanese population centers to end years of global total war. But it would have been appalling if the memory of Hiroshima and Nagasaki hadn't created a taboo around the use of nuclear weapons that endures unviolated to the present day. Likewise, the Bush administration's decision to waterboard Khalid Shaikh Mohammed in the wake of 9/11 was far more defensible than the attempt, by many administration apologists, to insist that waterboarding raised no moral or legal difficulties at all, and should be a routine part of our interrogation repertoire going forward.
What's true in wartime can be true in economic policy as well, even if the stakes aren't life and death. TARP may have saved the United States from 15 percent unemployment, but it also implicated our government in the kind of crony capitalism you'd expect from a banana republic. If it was necessary, it was also un-American. If it worked, it did so while doing grievous damage to the credibility of Wall Street and Washington alike.
So it's a healthy and necessary thing that our first post-crisis election has been defined by a groundswell of anti-bailout outrage. This no doubt seems unfair to the politicians who may lose their jobs (or have already lost them) for doing what they felt they had to do. But it would be an infinitely worse sign for America if the present backlash hadn't materialized at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); LEGISLATION (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



693 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: Guardians of TV Morals, Bowed

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- These are difficult days for the decency police.
The Parents Television Council spent most of the last decade as a conservative superstar in the culture wars. By pressuring the Federal Communications Commission to crack down on racy programming, the council was responsible for record-setting fines against media giants like CBS and the News Corporation.
But the organization now finds itself damaged, defanged by court challenges to the F.C.C.'s hard-line position, by its own dwindling finances and by internal troubles that resulted in its accusing a former senior employee of extortion. Meanwhile, the entertainment industry -- once so afraid of the council's wrath that Fox blurred the naked behind of an animated character -- is pushing the boundaries of taste with renewed intensity.
Forget cartoon nudity. One of CBS's new fall sitcoms is called ''$#*! My Dad Says.'' A catchy song with a highly vulgar title and chorus by the Warner Music Group singer Cee Lo Green has burned up the Web. Miley Cyrus, the 17-year-old Disney star, writhes on a bed in black underwear in her new music video. 
The council has tried to focus public indignation on such programming, but the efforts have mostly failed to gain serious traction.
A statement it issued on Oct. 8 regarding Ms. Cyrus's video, calling it ''unfortunate that she would participate in such a sexualized video like this one,'' was mild by council standards (and did not note that her father, Billy Ray Cyrus, is on the council's advisory board).
The council is more exercised by ''$#*! My Dad Says,'' declaring on Sept. 17 that it would ''not rest'' until the network changed the title or the show was canceled. It may be a while. Pressure on advertisers has long been one of the sharpest arrows in the council's quiver, but the sitcom, starring William Shatner, has so far carried a full roster of ads for each episode, according to CBS. One advertiser is Burger King.
New fodder is not in short supply. On Wednesday, the council was infuriated by GQ magazine, which published sexualized photos of ''Glee'' cast members in its November issue. The actresses, unlike Ms. Cyrus, are adults, but noting that ''Glee'' is a show about high school, the council issued a statement saying the display ''borders on pedophilia.'' To what end, though?
''Advertisers still fear the Parents Television Council, but not as much as they used to,'' said John Rash, who teaches mass media and politics at the University of Minnesota and is a former executive at Campbell Mithun, a media-buying agency in Minneapolis. ''It's hard for the council to stir up indignation about cultural issues at a time of economic woe.''
Timothy F. Winter, the council's president, said his organization, albeit weakened because of the recession, was as relevant as ever. This month, for instance, the council announced that it had persuaded pharmaceutical companies to participate in an initiative to alert parents about which broadcast television shows would contain ads for Viagra and other erectile dysfunction drugs. The council also see progress in forcing the greater regulation of violent video games.
''The downturn had a huge impact, but I feel we've turned a corner,'' Mr. Winter said. ''We're not out of the woods, but we are told all the time that we are the beacon of light out there. Families rely greatly on our work.''
Mr. Winter said that he was confident that the campaign against CBS would bear fruit. ''At the end of the day, we're hopeful that advertisers will realize they shouldn't be associated with excrement,'' he said.
The troubles of the Parents Television Council, founded in 1995 by the conservative activist L. Brent Bozell III, appear to have started about two years ago. As the organization successfully busied itself with cleaning up America's airwaves, its internal operations grew messy, an examination of internal documents and Internal Revenue Service forms shows.
Escalating costs collided with declining donations, resulting in a 2008 loss of almost $1 million. In 2009, as the recession battered fund-raising efforts anew, council revenue totaled $2.9 million, a 26 percent drop from the previous year. To cut costs, the organization has reduced its staff by 38 percent over the last two years.
The council's elaborate reports -- given provocative titles like ''MTV Smut Peddlers'' -- have grown infrequent, severely hampering the organization's lobbying and fund-raising efforts. In 2008, the council published four major reports; it published one in 2009 and has published none so far this year. (Mr. Winter said he planned to publish three reports in the next two months, including one centered on online video.)
During this period, the council encountered difficulties with its direct-mail fund-raising system. Like many nonprofit groups, the council raises money by mail: sign and return this petition -- preferably with a donation -- and we will send it to the F.C.C. But internal documents show that, at least for a period of some months, the council was opening tens of thousands of envelopes, looking for money, and skipping the rest of the steps.
In a March 2009 e-mail to Mr. Winter, Patrick W. Salazar, who was the council's vice president for development but is now one of its critics and has been accused by the group of trying to extort money from it, wrote, ''Almost 195,000 pieces of donor/member mail was never sent to the intended recipient.'' He added, ''Most of these were time-sensitive docs whose value is now shot.'' That September, Mr. Salazar sent another concerned note to Mr. Winter about the fulfillment of direct-mail petitions.
''Dude, I told you I was working on fulfillment,'' Mr. Winter responded. ''It is under control.''
Mr. Winter said that he had done his best to sort through the backlog, but he conceded that ultimately, the council decided that a stack of petitions was too old to be of any value. The council says it is now caught up.
Daniel Borochoff, president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a charity watchdog that gives the council a ''C-plus'' rating for financial efficiency based on its I.R.S. filings, said unfulfilled direct mail should ring ''serious alarms'' with potential donors. ''It certainly tarnishes the credibility of this organization,'' Mr. Borochoff said.
Mr. Salazar was also troubled by membership claims. For instance, council leaders put membership at ''more than 1.3 million.'' But that number counts people who have signed a petition or donated since the group's founding, according to the council. In reality, 12,000 people at most respond to annual fund-raising appeals, Mr. Salazar said.
Mr. Winter says there is nothing misleading about the council's membership claims, asserting that many nonprofit groups count participation in a similar fashion. As for the meager response to fund-raising appeals, Mr. Winter said that is partly a reflection of the number of solicitations sent out. ''We can't afford to communicate with everybody on our total membership list every time,'' he said.
In November, Mr. Salazar left the council. He says he quit. The group says he was fired but will not cite a reason. Mr. Salazar then started an effort to extract thousands of dollars in severance by threatening to alert the news media, including The New York Times, about the internal dysfunction he said he witnessed. In addition to the direct-mail predicament and the membership count, Mr. Salazar claimed a laundry list of other wrongdoings.
In a statement, the council said that Mr. Salazar had ''demanded that the P.T.C. pay him a substantial sum of cash or he would contact P.T.C. members and the media with certain allegations.'' It continued: ''His allegations are littered with patently false statements and misrepresentations of the truth. The P.T.C. has refused to negotiate a financial payment (or any other terms).''
The council asked the Los Angeles Police Department to investigate Mr. Salazar for extortion. A police spokesman said an investigation was completed and presented to the city attorney, who rejected it on the grounds that Mr. Salazar's actions did not constitute a crime.
Mr. Salazar, who is now a fund-raiser for Pierce College in Woodland Hills, Calif., said in an interview that he wanted the council to pay him to go away but denied that his requests amounted to extortion.
As the council was dealing with Mr. Salazar, it ran into another buzz saw. In July, a federal appeals court struck down one of the council's most promoted achievements, an F.C.C. policy barring the use of ''fleeting expletives'' on television.
The decision stemmed from a challenge by Fox, CBS and other broadcasters to the F.C.C.'s decision in 2004 to begin enforcing a stricter standard of what kind of language is allowed on free, over-the-air television.
The court unanimously ruled that the policy created a chilling effect because it left broadcasters without a guide to what the commission would find offensive. The F.C.C. has since appealed the ruling, arguing that the court overstepped its bounds. That petition is still pending.
Mr. Winter called the decision ''a slap in the face'' for families. ''We were frankly expecting it,'' he said, adding that he was confident the appeal would succeed.
The stated mission of the Parents Television Council is ''to restore responsibility and decency to the entertainment industry.'' Although officially nonpartisan, it shares office space with another nonprofit group founded by Mr. Bozell, the Media Research Center, which combats what it sees as liberal bias in the news media. Mr. Bozell is paid by both organizations, an arrangement that has been criticized by some watchdogs, including Mr. Borochoff of the American Institute of Philanthropy.
To further its mission, the council uses a combination of technology and human analysts to monitor prime-time programming, particularly on broadcast networks subject to F.C.C. scrutiny. The data is used for a family viewing guide on the council's Web site; shows are labeled red, yellow or green based on language, violence, depictions of sex and ''adult themes.''
Taking the decency battle to advertisers has become a bigger part of the council's focus since Mr. Winter took over as president in 2007. Each year, the council ranks the 10 best and 10 worst advertisers based on how frequently they sponsor ''family-friendly TV programs'' or ''objectionable content including foul language, violence and sexual themes and images.''
In 2009, General Mills ranked as the best, and the fast-food operator Yum Brands, which owns Taco Bell and KFC, as the worst.
At the moment, the council is focused on advertisers who support ''$#*! My Dad Says.'' After first singling out national sponsors, the council has shifted its attack to the local level, asking its members to record the show and take note of commercials for local businesses. Members are then supposed to e-mail the lists to the council.
''Your help will assure that CBS gets the message,'' read the sign-off to the council's call to action. ''We don't want any of your $#*! in front of our families!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top left, clockwise: Miley Cyrus's video to ''Who Owns My Heart''
William Shatner in CBS's ''$#*! My Dad Says''
the cast of ''Glee'' in GQ
and Cee Lo Green. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM TOP, CLOCKWISE: YOUTUBE
SONJA FLEMMING/CBS
TERRY RICHARDSON/GQ, VIA REUTERS
AND CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Lea Michele and Cory Monteith in ''Glee,'' who appear, among others, in racy poses in GQ. The Parents Television Council, led by Timothy Winter, right, noted that the show was about high school and said the display ''borders on pedophilia.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARIN BAER/FOX
 STEPHEN SHUGERMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); ANIMATION (74%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); MUSIC (72%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (55%)

PERSON: CEE LO GREEN (90%); MILEY CYRUS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



694 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Gains Sway, but Its Authority Is Uncertain

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Can the International Monetary Fund achieve what seems like a mission impossible: bridge the increasingly tense currency and trade disputes that threaten to set back the uneven global recovery?
That is what leaders of the world's largest countries are hoping, even though a number of international economists are skeptical.
A weekend gathering in South Korea of officials from the Group of 20 economic powers ended Saturday with a collective vow to avoid a foreign-exchange war. But they failed to agree on an American proposal to set a numerical limit on the trade imbalances that have been identified as a source of global economic instability.
So G-20 officials, including the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, instead decided to strengthen the I.M.F.'s nascent, but largely untested, role as the arbiter of international economic frictions. 
Keeping its 187 members in line has not always come naturally to the I.M.F. It is best known for bailing out fiscally stricken nations, giving political cover to -- and taking political heat for -- debt-burdened governments as they cut spending, raise taxes and restructure their balance sheets.
But its longstanding role as a monitor of fiscal and monetary policies is taking on new emphasis.
To support that expanded monitoring, the G-20 officials agreed on a huge increase in the fund's resources; a historic shift in voting power toward fast-growing emerging markets and away from the richest nations; and a stronger mandate for the fund to monitor -- and criticize, when necessary -- the policies of its members.
Whether the I.M.F. is up to the task of policing its members and exerting influence on the most powerful ones remains far from clear.
''At present, there is no effective international umpire who can call a foul on countries for their policies,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former I.M.F. economist who now teaches trade policy at Cornell. ''The I.M.F. can say its piece, but is ineffectual when it comes to influencing the large economies.''
Even the I.M.F. is aware of its own limitations. While Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the fund's managing director, lauded what he called ''the most important reform in the governance of the institution since its creation,'' he acknowledged the magnitude of the challenge.
''The I.M.F. is a multilateral institution, but we don't have real teeth,'' Mr. Strauss-Kahn said on Saturday at the close of a two-day meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central bankers in Gyeongju, South Korea. ''We cannot oblige a country to do something, but what we can do is to notice that a country has a commitment and fulfills, or not, a commitment.''
He added, ''To be able to say to a country publicly, 'What you're doing is wrong,' we probably need to extend the mandate of the I.M.F.''
For the United States, which helped create the I.M.F. in 1944 as part of the Bretton Woods system of managing global economic relations, the new reliance on the I.M.F. stems from a recognition that it cannot unilaterally compel China, now the world's second-largest economy, to do what it wants. The United States for months has been pressing China to let its currency rise in value and realign its economy, away from a dependence on exports and toward domestic consumption.
''The I.M.F. has to play cop; that's what it exists to do,'' Mr. Geithner told Bloomberg Television on Saturday. ''No country can be the independent, unilateral arbiter of exchange-rate misalignments. And no country can, on its own, figure out how best to reduce a persistently large imbalance. It requires cooperation.''
The I.M.F. said it realized that addressing the currency issues was a priority.
''The main threat to this recovery would be to enter an endless fight on current account surpluses and exchange rates,'' Mr. Strauss-Kahn said Saturday. ''I don't like to use the term 'war,' because it has been too much used, but let's say a confrontation.''
Germany, an export powerhouse, resisted Mr. Geithner's proposal that G-20 countries aim to limit the surplus or deficit on their current account -- the broadest measure of a nation's trade and investment -- to no more than 4 percent of gross domestic product. (Germany has a projected current account surplus of 6.1 percent this year, compared with a 4.7 percent surplus for China and a 3.2 percent deficit for the United States.) But the Germans and Americans were on the same page regarding the I.M.F.
''If you can make the fund more legitimate, it can play a greater role in multilateral surveillance of economic policies,'' Jorg Asmussen, state secretary of the German Finance Ministry, said in a phone interview. ''It is extremely necessary.''
So the G-20 powers agreed to pump up the fund's resources by doubling the quotas that determine how much each country contributes to, and may borrow from, the institution. The I.M.F. will also shift 6 percent of voting power away from the richest countries toward ''dynamic emerging-market developing countries.''
China, Russia, India and Brazil will be among the fund's 10 largest shareholders. But the United States, with nearly 17 percent of voting power, will retain its ability to unilaterally veto major decisions, which require an 85 percent vote. Europe agreed to give up two of its seats on the 24-member executive board that governs the I.M.F., a significant concession.
''We put an end to a discussion which has been in the headlines for decades about the legitimacy of the institution,'' said Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former finance minister of France.
For the United States, tasking the I.M.F. with mediating the currency dispute ''may help rebuild Congressional support for the I.M.F. while reducing the growing threat of protectionist legislation against China,'' said J. Lawrence Broz, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego.
There is, of course, a risk: in sharing power at the I.M.F. more broadly, the Western powers (and Japan) may be opening themselves up to advice that is not easy to hear.
''Greater legitimacy will depend on the I.M.F. offering policy prescriptions and analysis that genuinely reflect the interests and experiences of emerging markets and poor countries, even when such actions may run counter to the interests of wealthier countries,'' said Jeffrey M. Chwieroth, a senior lecturer at the London School of Economics and author of ''Capital Ideas: The I.M.F. and the Rise of Financial Liberalization.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn said the I.M.F., which traditionally has produced reports limited to individual countries, would increasingly emphasize the spillover effects that one country has on others. Such ''spillover reports,'' he said, will include the world's five major currencies: the dollar, the euro, the yen, the pound and the renminbi.
''These five currencies have accepted the spillover report despite the fact that they understand that sometimes it will be a bit problematic for them, because we will say things they don't like,'' he said.
At the same time, Mr. Strauss-Kahn made clear his independence from American influence, saying of Mr. Geithner's abortive proposal, ''Whereas this idea of 4 percent has been launched by Tim, the discussion focused more on finding something more appropriate and more sophisticated.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JO YONG-HAK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%); MONETARY POLICY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



695 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Falling Into The Chasm

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
This is what happens when you need to leap over an economic chasm -- but either can't or won't jump far enough, so that you only get part of the way across.
If Democrats do as badly as expected in next week's elections, pundits will rush to interpret the results as a referendum on ideology. President Obama moved too far to the left, most will say, even though his actual program -- a health care plan very similar to past Republican proposals, a fiscal stimulus that consisted mainly of tax cuts, help for the unemployed and aid to hard-pressed states -- was more conservative than his election platform.
A few commentators will point out, with much more justice, that Mr. Obama never made a full-throated case for progressive policies, that he consistently stepped on his own message, that he was so worried about making bankers nervous that he ended up ceding populist anger to the right. 
But the truth is that if the economic situation were better -- if unemployment had fallen substantially over the past year -- we wouldn't be having this discussion. We would, instead, be talking about modest Democratic losses, no more than is usual in midterm elections.
The real story of this election, then, is that of an economic policy that failed to deliver. Why? Because it was greatly inadequate to the task.
When Mr. Obama took office, he inherited an economy in dire straits -- more dire, it seems, than he or his top economic advisers realized. They knew that America was in the midst of a severe financial crisis. But they don't seem to have taken on board the lesson of history, which is that major financial crises are normally followed by a protracted period of very high unemployment.
If you look back now at the economic forecast originally used to justify the Obama economic plan, what's striking is that forecast's optimism about the economy's ability to heal itself. Even without their plan, Obama economists predicted, the unemployment rate would peak at 9 percent, then fall rapidly. Fiscal stimulus was needed only to mitigate the worst -- as an ''insurance package against catastrophic failure,'' as Lawrence Summers, later the administration's top economist, reportedly said in a memo to the president-elect.
But economies that have experienced a severe financial crisis generally don't heal quickly. From the Panic of 1893, to the Swedish crisis of 1992, to Japan's lost decade, financial crises have consistently been followed by long periods of economic distress. And that has been true even when, as in the case of Sweden, the government moved quickly and decisively to fix the banking system.
To avoid this fate, America needed a much stronger program than what it actually got -- a modest rise in federal spending that was barely enough to offset cutbacks at the state and local level. This isn't 20-20 hindsight: the inadequacy of the stimulus was obvious from the beginning.
Could the administration have gotten a bigger stimulus through Congress? Even if it couldn't, would it have been better off making the case for a bigger plan, rather than pretending that what it got was just right? We'll never know.
What we do know is that the inadequacy of the stimulus has been a political catastrophe. Yes, things are better than they would have been without the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act: the unemployment rate would probably be close to 12 percent right now if the administration hadn't passed its plan. But voters respond to facts, not counterfactuals, and the perception is that the administration's policies have failed.
The tragedy here is that if voters do turn on Democrats, they will in effect be voting to make things even worse.
The resurgent Republicans have learned nothing from the economic crisis, except that doing everything they can to undermine Mr. Obama is a winning political strategy. Tax cuts and deregulation are still the alpha and omega of their economic vision.
And if they take one or both houses of Congress, complete policy paralysis -- which will mean, among other things, a cutoff of desperately needed aid to the unemployed and a freeze on further help for state and local governments -- is a given. The only question is whether we'll have political chaos as well, with Republicans' shutting down the government at some point over the next two years. And the odds are that we will.
Is there any hope for a better outcome? Maybe, just maybe, voters will have second thoughts about handing power back to the people who got us into this mess, and a weaker-than-expected Republican showing at the polls will give Mr. Obama a second chance to turn the economy around.
But right now it looks as if the too-cautious attempt to jump across that economic chasm has fallen short -- and we're about to hit rock bottom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



696 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Governor and the Public Education Debate

BYLINE: By BRENT STAPLES

 BODY:
New Jersey's governor, Chris Christie, has been bludgeoning the state's teachers and their unions since he took office earlier this year. The name-calling has raised his profile nationally, and made him a darling of the right. It has also made rational conversation on school reform nearly impossible.
Last month, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, seemed to address this problem when he announced that he was pouring $100 million into a school reform plan in troubled Newark, whose schools are controlled by the state. He said from the start that the plan would be a joint project of politicians, civic groups and the very teachers' unions that Mr. Christie has been demonizing since Day 1. 
The deal as it was originally announced called for Mr. Christie to cede some control of Newark's schools to Cory Booker, the city's well-liked mayor. But it became clear just days later that state law allowed for no such transfer of power. This meant the governor would remain very much at the center of a delicate situation.
Newark residents who have been put off by his bullying found more reasons to be suspicious at a legislative hearing earlier this month, where Bret Schundler, the former state education commissioner, provided an eye-opening account of how the state had failed to win a $400 million education grant from the Race to the Top program.
The governor fired Mr. Schundler, saying that he had lied about what went wrong. But in Mr. Schundler's version of the facts, it was the governor who sabotaged the grant application -- in the very depths of a recession -- to protect his carefully cultivated image as the scourge of the teachers' unions.
The federal scoring system for the Race to the Top competition allotted a significant number of points to states that got local and union support for their reform plans. Mr. Schundler succeeded in winning that support, while protecting the state's reform agenda and getting virtually all of the concessions the state wanted from the unions.
By Mr. Schundler's account, Governor Christie angrily rejected the compromise because a popular radio program accused him of buckling to union pressure. Mr. Schundler countered with reason, pointing out that the federal grant would cement the state's reform project and help local districts financially for years to come.
But the governor, he said, was ''emphatic that the money didn't matter to him'' and found it intolerable that he would be viewed as having given in to the unions.
This portrayal is consistent with the style for which the Christie administration is well known. It was painfully evident earlier this spring in the administration's response to what should have been seen as wonderful news for New Jersey's schools.
The state had just finished near the top nationally in math and reading as measured by the rigorous, federally backed test known as the National Assessment of Educational Progress. The Christie Education Department dismissed the results as ''irrelevant'' and described public education generally as ''wretched.''
Earlier this year, Mr. Christie accused teachers of ''using students like drug mules'' with the intent of subverting the political views of their families. During the campaign, he referred to the state's nationally admired preschool program as baby-sitting.
Mr. Christie raises the right subjects -- merit pay, tenure, evaluation -- but nearly always in an inflammatory fashion.
None of this will play well in Newark, a city that is famously wary of outsiders. Some Newarkers already see Mr. Booker as the governor's cat's paw. Others wager that Mr. Christie will hang him out to dry, as he did Mr. Schundler, if it becomes politically convenient to do so. Even if the school reform effort succeeds, the Christie style will have made it that much harder to pull off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



697 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
IRAQI SECURITY FORCES
Wrestle With Addiction
A growing number of Iraqi security force members are becoming dependent on drugs or alcohol, which has lead to concerns about a significant addiction problem among the country's armed services as the insurgency remains a potent force and American troops prepare to depart at the end of next year. PAGE A9
DEBATING ISRAEL PREREQUISITE 
The more stridently Israel insists on Palestinian recognition of it as the nation-state of the Jewish people, the more adamantly the Palestinian leadership seems to refuse. As a result, some senior Israeli officials are beginning to question the wisdom of the policy of their prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who has made recognition of the legitimacy of the Jewish nation-state a prerequisite for any final agreement with the Palestinians. News Analysis. PAGE A6
WIFE PLEADS TO CUBA
The wife of an American contractor detained in Cuba nearly a year ago has sent a letter to President Raul Castro, apologizing for her husband's actions and pleading for his release. PAGE A4
National
GAINS ARE SEEN
For Transgender Candidates
If elected, Theresa Sparks would be the first transgender supervisor in San Francisco. But she is not the only transgender person campaigning for public office this fall. And unlike in years past, when such candidates were often considered curiosities, several are within striking distance of historic victories. PAGE A15
DECLARING INDEPENDENCE
Democrats in races across the country are distancing themselves from President Obama, portraying themselves as independent, even as they hope he campaigns for them. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A15
New York
RELATIVES GRIEVE
For Slain Deli Worker
Relatives and customers mourned the death of Juan Arcadio Torres, who was fatally shot during a robbery at the Queens deli where he worked. While the police in Queens searched for his killer, dozens of loved ones gathered at the Torres's two-story brick home on Autumn Avenue in Brooklyn. PAGE A19
Business
I.M.F. GAINS SWAY,
But Its Authority Is Unclear
Keeping its 187 members in line has not always come naturally to the International Monetary Fund. But its longstanding role as a monitor of fiscal and monetary policies is taking on new emphasis, but whether the I.M.F. is up to the task of policing its members and exerting influence on the most powerful ones remains far from clear. PAGE B1
DEVELOPING ANDROID APPS
Even as Android sales surge, the market for Android applications still seems anemic compared with that for Apple and its thriving App Store. But that tide is starting to turn as Android's popularity continues to swell and Google takes steps to smooth out some of the wrinkles with its own application store. PAGE B1
MTV'S RESURGENCE
MTV is enjoying a renaissance. Written off as irrelevant just a few years ago, the channel has bounced back -- a resurgence that is happening at a time of wholesale restructuring within MTV. PAGE B1
CABLE FIGHT DRAGS ON
The feud between Fox News and Cablevision threatens to shut Cablevision customers out of watching the World Series. But both companies feel that the fight is worthwhile. Cablevision says it wants government intervention, and the News Corporation is seeking to hold out for the price it believes it deserves for its popular TV shows. PAGE B3
Sports
PURSUING THE QUARTERBACK,
And a Hollywood Career
Trevor Pryce is a defensive end with the Jets, the owner of two championship rings and a four-time Pro Bowl selection. But he has found something of a second career in Hollywood, writing screenplays. PAGE D1
A QUIET YANKEE STADIUM
A year after parading on Broadway after their 27th championship, the Yankees returned to a postseason ritual Sunday that has become more familiar over the past decade: cleaning out lockers after being eliminated from the playoffs. With their only World Series title in the last 10 years coming in 2009 -- and four exits in the division series during that period -- Yankee veterans have learned to stay away after another disappointing conclusion. PAGE D3
DEBATING ON HITS
For decades, the N.F.L. and television networks have worked hand-in-hand to promote football and make money for the broadcasters and their advertisers. So perhaps predictably, many of the analysts and players on shows before and after Sunday's games sided with the league's decision to better enforce its rules against helmet-to-helmet hits. PAGE D5
Arts
A WAYWARD SON CHECKS IN
With Mother Russia
The Russian-born author Gary Shteyngart is a rising literary star in New York. But he is promoting his novel ''Super Sad True Love Story,'' in Russia, where he is virtually unknown. PAGE C1
TYLER PERRY'S NEW IMAGE
Is Tyler Perry capable of highbrow cinema? The studio behind his 10th movie, ''For Colored Girls,'' is determined to make audiences and Oscar voters look beyond his track record and answer yes. PAGE C1
Op-ed
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A23
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE APPLICATIONS (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ROBBERY (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (71%); CAUCUSES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); SHOOTINGS (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (67%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



698 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Tough as Nails, but Always Ready for a Bearhug

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
It is 8:30 a.m. at De La Salle Academy, a private school in Manhattan for academically talented poor children, and classical music is humming through a boom box that harks back to the 1980s.
Children are streaming up four flights of stairs and surrounding the school's founder and principal, Brother Brian Carty, like moths fluttering around a light. They want to tell him something. They want one of his bearhugs. They want to be in his orbit for a few minutes.
If the students' attraction to Brother Carty suggests that he is a teddy bear of an administrator, consider a few of his rules. Gossip is an expellable offense. Makeup -- even lip gloss -- is prohibited. Dating is outlawed.
Parents are instructed on rules regarding parties and cellphone and Internet use. Teaching fads are generally dismissed, memorization is encouraged and smart boards are nowhere to be seen. ''I'm not going to spoon-feed them,'' he said. ''Taking notes is a skill.'' 
At a time when everything about education seems to be in flux -- the role of testing, the expectations for teachers, the impact of technology -- Brother Carty is something of a throwback. For more than a quarter-century, he has been the guiding force and gatekeeper of one of the city's most selective, if not most heralded, private schools. More than half of its students come from families with incomes of less than $35,000, and most move on to the city's top private high schools or elite boarding schools in New England.
De La Salle, a middle school on West 97th Street, is nonsectarian, but there is a faith component, including prayers at the beginning of the day and the start of each class. ''I ask the parents to raise them in their faith and to practice it,'' Brother Carty said. And though he holds an administrative role, he clearly views his position pastorally.
''I was not so sure you had the soul to make it here,'' Brother Carty wrote in the autograph book of a student who graduated from De La Salle in May, Cassandra Raimundi. She said she was into boys and into gossip when she arrived at the school.
''Brother Brian had me sit in his office, and we had a long conversation and it was very emotional,'' she said. ''But that was the minute I decided to grow up.''
His tough-as-nails attitude toward behavior that falls short of expectations -- at a funeral for a student who drowned over the summer, he told some of the student's friends that they risked a spiritual death -- does not easily fit the image of a man who has more than 1,300 friends on Facebook, and whom children flock to hug.
A towering figure, at 6-foot-4, with a deep belly laugh, he considers it his mission to be deeply involved in their lives. He chooses all of the students who are accepted, helps guide eighth graders through the high school admissions process and even consults with them four years later when they are applying to college. He seems to know everything about every one, about 150 each year, of his students, like whose father lost his job or whose mother is ill, and he still keeps up with students he had as early as the 1970s.
He has set up volunteer counseling with social workers and psychologists to help students work through problems at home. ''It's O.K. to struggle, but they have to learn to cope,'' he said. ''Pity parties are not allowed here.''
His graduates win scholarships to some of the city's most prestigious schools that are eager to increase minority enrollment, including Dalton, Trinity and Fieldston, as well as boarding schools like Hotchkiss and Taft. (Brother Carty takes parents on a field trip to visit boarding schools since many of the parents, he said, have no idea what the schools are.)
''He remembers every kid, details about their families and the areas where they need to grow,'' said Stephen M. Clement, headmaster of the Browning School, which has taken many of Brother Carty's students.
Dorothy A. Hutcheson, head of the Nightingale-Bamford School, an all-girls school in Manhattan, said De La Salle alumnae come academically prepared and with a thirst for learning that stands out. ''It's a great way to get diversity without having to work for it because they come so prepared,'' she said.
Brother Carty, 66, grew up on the Upper West Side, the son of Irish immigrants. His father, a steamfitter, died when Brother Carty, the middle child of three, was 9, and he took on more family responsibilities.
He attended parochial schools, taught by the De La Salle Christian Brothers in the Lasallian tradition, named after a French Roman Catholic saint who founded a system of Christian schooling for the poor in the 17th century. ''I had fabulous teachers,'' Brother Carty said. ''They were good men.''
He started teaching in 1965 at the Monsignor Kelly School, a private school whose enrollment was made up of academically talented children from public schools that could not focus on them.
''Iwassuddenly in a group -- they seemed like old guys; they were probably in their mid- to late-20s -- of adult males who took you under their wing and nurtured you spiritually, academically and athletically,'' said Michael Franc, vice president of government relations for the Heritage Foundation in Washington, and a 1971 graduate of Monsignor Kelly. ''It was an across-the-board adoption in a positive way.''
The school was shut in 1972 as a result of financial problems. In 1984, with a group of Kelly alumni, Brother Carty founded De La Salle. He soon noticed that girls were excelling, signing up for study-abroad programs, getting into top colleges and becoming doctors, but boys were not. He worried that the school was getting to boys too late -- after they had been lured into a street culture where being smart was ridiculed. ''We had to get to them sooner,'' Brother Carty said. ''This is their healing.''
So he decided to intervene sooner. In 2003, he founded the George Jackson Academy in the East Village, again seeking academically talented, economically underprivileged children, but this time at the fourth- and fifth-grade levels.
Both schools run on a shoestring budget. De La Salle, which admits about 60 students a year from about 450 applicants, has no air-conditioning, the students are the maintenance crew, Spanish textbooks are outdated enough to refer to loading film into cameras, and Brother Carty refers to himself as the chief plumber.
While families must pay something, on average they contribute 15 percent of the $14,500 tuition. Most of the financing comes from foundations -- which have generally cut back. Last year, De La Salle posted a deficit of about $150,000, and the projected deficit for this year is $450,000. For the first time, the school will have to dip into its $8.5 million endowment, Brother Carty said.
Much of the endowment comes from the estate of a graduate who died in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing and whose mother gave some of her settlement to the school.
Mr. Clement, the Browning headmaster, said that with all Brother Carty's fund-raising, he wondered how he slept at night.
''I say it's the Holy Spirit,'' Brother Carty said. ''I trust.''
When they arrive in the fall, new students have a two-day orientation, after which they are required to take an oath to the community. ''You are our business,'' Brother Carty said at the orientation last month. ''You go out as part of this family, and you represent me. I take this representation personally.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brother Brian Carty founded De La Salle Academy, a school for the academically talented but economically underprivileged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GIFTED EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



699 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: By Taking the Offensive, Cuomo Says, He Will Be Different

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Andrew M. Cuomo will mount a presidential-style permanent political campaign to counter the well-financed labor unions he believes have bullied previous governors and lawmakers into making bad decisions. He will seek to transform the state's weak business lobby into a more formidable ally, believing that corporate leaders in New York have virtually surrendered the field to big labor.
And even as he girds for war, Mr. Cuomo, the state attorney general and an expert practitioner of political hardball, also plans to lavish attention on individual legislators, who he says are sick of being demonized and eager for accomplishment after years of gridlock and enmity.
In a rare extended interview, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, insisted voters can believe he will succeed where other governors failed, saying he has the savvy and the experience to maximize the leverage of the state's highest elective office. ''I know these guys. I know them very well,'' he said of the state's political class. ''I've played with them, I've played against them. I know this game. I know it extraordinarily well. I know what they're capable of, I know their strengths and I know their weaknesses.'' 
In the 90-minute discussion, Mr. Cuomo for the first time laid out his strategy to isolate, destabilize, and ultimately defeat the tangle of entrenched interests that has left state government bankrupt, infamously dysfunctional, and mired in scandal. He would not submit to the fate, Mr. Cuomo said, that met the Democrats Eliot Spitzer and David A. Paterson after they took office as governor.
''We've seen the same play run for 10 years,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''The governor announces the budget, unions come together, put $10 million in a bank account, run television ads against the governor. The governor's popularity drops; the governor's knees weaken; the governor falls to one knee, collapses, makes a deal.''
And Mr. Cuomo, who has never lagged behind in polls, made clear that he has planned his campaign for governor less around beating Carl P. Paladino, his struggling Republican opponent, than around the battles that will come after the election.
''Start during the campaign,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''See it coming. Don't wait until you get there because it is too late to prevent it once you get there. It is too late.''
In recent weeks, he has sent labor leaders copies of ''The Man Who Saved New York,'' a new biography of former Gov. Hugh L. Carey that recounts how the Democrat teamed up with labor leaders to rescue New York's finances in the 1970s. And despite his own reputation for toughness, Mr. Cuomo said he believed state lawmakers would respond to a softer touch and subtler approach to governing.
''They really don't want to be reviled,'' he said of state lawmakers. ''They really don't. First of all, nobody does -- especially a politician!'' A governor, he noted during the interview, ''can be a very good friend to people; a governor can be a formidable force.''
But Mr. Cuomo's need for aggressive fund-raising while governing -- money he must seek from many of the same lobbyists and interest groups that have held sway in Albany for years -- could create complications.
In the interview, which was conducted in his 25th-floor office in downtown Manhattan, Mr. Cuomo laid out some plans for his administration but shrank from offering specifics in other areas.
He said if lawmakers failed to approve legislation allowing for independent ethics oversight of the Legislature, he would appoint a special prosecutor with powers to investigate what he called ''chronic corruption'' among lawmakers.
Mr. Cuomo, whose aides told one newspaper last week that his office had not kept a formal detailed schedule during Mr. Cuomo's first two years as attorney general, pledged if elected to post his entire work schedule online, including meetings with lawmakers and lobbyists.
And in a break from Mr. Spitzer, who sought to set an example while pushing for tougher ethics rules, Mr. Cuomo said he would not impose unilateral limits on his own fund-raising. He said he could not afford to do so given the forces arrayed against him and believed it would do nothing to advance his cause with lawmakers.
''It's meaningless to the Legislature,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''I mean that was Eliot: 'I'm going to cut my own funding until you pass the bill.' O.K. Go ahead. It doesn't work.''
Over the course of the interview, Mr. Cuomo was openly nostalgic about the Capitol culture of his youth, when he worked for his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, describing it as a more civil place where Republicans and Democrats worked together and moneyed interests held less sway over lawmakers. He spoke with evident excitement about reorganizing and invigorating state government at a moment when voters are profoundly disillusioned with it.
''I think there's a lot to learn from Carey on how to use a crisis,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''There is energy and power in a crisis.''
In the interview, Mr. Cuomo also committed to redistributing state school aid from wealthy, politically powerful suburban school districts and sending more dollars to high-need rural and urban schools, saying the governor had a duty to be ''the great equalizer.'' And he predicted painful but necessary cuts to services, like home health care, that have helped make New York's Medicaid program the most expensive in the nation.
Yet for all his emphasis on the power of relationships, Mr. Cuomo appeared uncomfortable when asked to characterize the one he has with Sheldon Silver, the wily Assembly speaker and his only serious rival for influence and power in Albany today.
Asked repeatedly whether he believed he stood a greater chance of success if someone other than Mr. Silver led the Assembly, Mr. Cuomo declined to answer, though he also hinted he would not seek to foment a coup against the speaker, as some have speculated he might.
''I'm running for governor; I'm not running for a legislative office,'' Mr. Cuomo said, adding later that a governor ''should not be involved in picking the speaker, I don't believe. I believe it's a mistake.''
And with most public polls showing him poised to sweep into the executive mansion, Mr. Cuomo would not rule out a future run for the White House, saying only that ruling in a run would be a ''silly, delusional thought.''
While his father once spoke of campaigning in poetry and governing in prose, Mr. Cuomo is campaigning in PowerPoint: he began the interview with a slide show describing his model for creating what he called a ''new paradigm'' to tackle the state's ever-swelling budget.
New York, Mr. Cuomo argued, should move away from what he called the ''block grant'' model of spending, especially in areas like school aid, municipal aid and Medicaid. In each area, he said, he would cut projected spending but create pools of bonus money that can be won -- by cities and villages, by school superintendents, by unions -- in public competitions much like the federal Race to the Top education grant program.
But unlike his Republican opponent, Mr. Cuomo refused to lay out specific targets for cutting state spending. Asked if he would seek to cut state spending, rather than merely slowing its growth, Mr. Cuomo said he wanted to pursue ''what I think is achievable.''
Asked what his first act as governor would be, Mr. Cuomo said he had not thought about it. And he remained evasive on other details of his plans, unwilling to box himself in until the grand bargain he seeks is within reach. On topics like repeal of the so-called Triborough Amendment, a wrinkle of state labor law that has given public sector unions enormous leverage in bargaining, or layoffs of state employees, Mr. Cuomo refused to draw lines in the sand.
''The reason I resist playing cards now is that I can't play them later,'' he explained. ''Right? These are trade-offs.''
But his tactical mind was on ample display as he debated the pros and cons of strategy, and the blunders of previous governors.
Mr. Cuomo said he believed that Mr. Spitzer had squandered his opportunity with the Legislature by going to war with Mr. Silver early in his term over selection of a new state comptroller. He argued that the previous governor, George E. Pataki, a Republican, was successful in harnessing a wave of voter anger in 1994 to win election and reduce spending his first year in office, but was hobbled thereafter because of implacable hostility from the Assembly.
''Lesson 1 from Spitzer: Don't alienate the legislature on Day 1,'' Mr. Cuomo remarked. ''Lesson from Pataki's success is: Use the political moment.''
At times, Mr. Cuomo expressed frustration with the news media coverage of his campaign, saying he produced voluminous books on policy only to be criticized for his opacity.
Asked what headline he would like to see on the front page of a newspaper in four years, Mr. Cuomo readily answered: ''State's Economic Ventures Picking Up, Employment Up, People of the State of New York Say They Have a New Respect and Belief in Government.''
It was suggested to him that his headline might be too long.
Mr. Cuomo replied: ''But I got to write it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BATTLES TO COME: Andrew M. Cuomo, the Democratic nominee for governor, said his campaign had focused on confrontations after the elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)
 Andrew M. Cuomo, right, after a news conference Oct. 14 on Long Island, says he will try not to alienate the Legislature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



700 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.12 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.17 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.12 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
MONDAY
Florida Board of Education capital outlay, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Florida Board of Education Lottery, $173.9 million of lottery revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Baltimore, $371.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Fairfax County Water Authority, $64.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
New York City Transit Finance Authority, $100 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Minnesota Public Facilities Authority, $291 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Bergen, N.J., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Des Moines, $75.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Palm Beach, Fla., School Board, $67.7 million of certificates of participation. Competitive.
University of Birmingham, Ala., $106.1 million of revenue bonds. Competitive
Virginia College Building Authority, $331.9 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Missouri Highway and Transportation Commission, $139.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Atlanta and Fulton County Recreation Authority, $140 million of refinancing revenue and improvement bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Bay Area, Calif., Toll Authority, $400 million of subordinate toll bridge revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Bay Area, Calif., Toll Authority, $400 million of subordinate toll bridge revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Butler County, Ohio, $207.5 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
Chicago, $276 million of wastewater transmission bonds. George K. Baum.
Connecticut, $700 million of special obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Cumberland County Municipal Authority, $65.3 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Ziegler Capital Markets.
Dallas and Forth Worth, $310 million of debt securities. Jefferies.
DuPage, Ill., $67 million of general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
El Paso Independent School District, $50 million of refinancing school bonds. Southwest Securities.
Honolulu, $279.4 million of wastewater system revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Kentucky Property and Building Commission, $315.2 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Laredo, Tex., $91.1 million of waterworks and sewer system revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development, $84 million of multifamily housing revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Midlothian, Tex., Independent School District, $52 million of unlimited tax school refinancing bonds. FirstSouthwest.
Mississippi Hospital and Equipment Facilities Authority, $70.1 million of hospital revenue bonds. Bank of America.
New York City Transitional Finance Authority, $750 million of future tax secured bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Orlando-Orange County, Fla., Expressway Authority, $280 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Palm Beach County, Fla., Health Facilities Authority, $53.8 million of retirement communities revenue bonds. Ziegler Capital Markets.
Palomar, Calif., Community College District, $180 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority, $143.4 million of water facilities revenue refinancing bonds. Jefferies.
Philadelphia International Airport, $620 million of airport revenue bonds. Bank of America.
San Antonio Independent School District, $96.7 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Southwest Securities.
San Antonio, $200 million of city public service revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America.
San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission, $350 million of debt securities. Barclays Capital.
San Francisco Airport Commission, $325.8 million of airport revenue refinancing bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Tacoma, Wash., $75.4 million of debt securities. Piper Jaffray.
Tallahassee, Fla., $156.6 million of energy system revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Tampa Bay, Fla., $66.2 million of utility system revenue and refinancing bonds. Raymond James.
Tempe, Ariz., $64.5 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
University of Cincinnati, $134.4 million of general receipts bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
University of Michigan, $220 million of revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
Washington Health Care Facilities Authority, $56.3 million of revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority, $100 million of home ownership mortgage revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Wisconsin, $165.4 million of clean water revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (88%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (88%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LOTTERIES (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); HOSPITALS (60%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FAIRFAX COUNTY WATER AUTHORITY INC (56%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (55%); EL PASO, TX, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



701 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Gains Are Seen for Transgender Candidates

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY and MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Theresa Sparks, a candidate for the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, is running on what some might see as a conservative platform: she is pro-development and anti-loitering, pro-police and anti-grime. She has been endorsed by the mayor, the city's firefighters' union and the county deputy sheriff's association.
But that is not what sets Ms. Sparks apart; it is her past. Until a decade ago, Ms. Sparks was a man, before a gender reassignment surgery. And while her sex may have changed, her politics did not.
''This district really needs someone with a strong business background, a strong economic background and a really wide diversity of experience,'' said Ms. Sparks, who is an experienced engineer, a United States Navy veteran and the former chief executive of Good Vibrations, a sex toy company. ''And I'm really the only person who has that in this race.'' 
If elected, Ms. Sparks would be the first transgender supervisor in San Francisco -- the liberal enclave where Harvey Milk was elected as one of the nation's first openly gay officials in 1977, and perhaps the only place where Ms. Sparks might be considered right-of-center.
But she is not the only transgender person campaigning for public office this fall. And unlike in years past, when such candidates were often considered mere curiosities, several are within striking distance of historic victories.
Across San Francisco Bay, for example, Victoria Kolakowski was the leading vote-getter in a June election for Superior Court judge in Alameda County; a victory in a runoff next month would make her the first transgender trial court judge in the nation.
''I want people to know that we are capable of being everything,'' Ms. Kolakowski said.
In Oklahoma, Brittany Novotny, a 30-year-old Democrat, is competitive in the Republican-leaning 84th District for the State House of Representatives, despite supporters of her opponent who have ridiculed her as a ''confused it.'' And there are transgender incumbents in Oregon -- where the mayor of Silverton, Stu Rasmussen, is seeking a fourth term, and her second as a woman -- and Hawaii, where Kim Coco Iwamoto is seeking to return to the State Board of Education.
All of which has been hailed by advocates as both a sign of acceptance and, they hope, a sign that actual issues are being valued more than gender stereotypes.
''People aren't sitting around saying, 'Gee, I wish we had a transgender judge,' '' said Mara Keisling, the executive director of the National Center for Transgender Equality in Washington. ''They're saying, 'We want a really good judge.' '' Gay rights activists hope that the visibility of the candidates will help normalize people's relations with people who are transgender -- a broad category that includes heterosexual cross-dressers, homosexual drag queens and kings, and those who believe that they were born in the wrong body.
And while the issues that face gays and transgender people often differ, a recent spate of suicides among young gay men has intensified the need for positive political role models, said Chuck Wolfe, the president and chief executive of the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund, which backs gay and lesbian political candidates.
''Knowing there's openly gay people sitting in those positions will definitely have an impact,'' he said.
Mr. Wolfe said that recently he had seen more and more ''inspired, comfortable and confident'' transgender people in his group's training classes. There are also more gay and lesbian candidates in general now, a surge that Mr. Wolfe ascribes, in part, to newly elected -- and openly gay -- leaders like Mayor Annise Parker in Houston and Simone Bell, a lesbian who won a seat in the Georgia House of Representatives in December.
That said, the number of transgender candidates is still small, and often unsuccessful. Dana Beyer, a candidate for a seat in the Maryland Assembly, lost in a Democratic primary in September, despite an endorsement from The Washington Post.
Still, Ms. Beyer, 58, a retired physician who had a sex change in 2003, describes the experience as almost therapeutic.
''I was a terrible introvert for 50 years,'' she said. ''And the first time I started knocking on doors, I was scared to death. But I discovered I actually liked doing it.''
While most of the transgender candidates have been Democrats, in Florida, Donna Milo -- a pro-gun, anti-tax, male-to-female Republican (and, interestingly enough, anti-same-sex marriage) -- lost a primary for Congress in August. She did, however, receive 22.5 percent of the vote.
Many of the transgender candidates say that their personal histories inform, but do not define, their campaigns. Ms. Kolakowski, 49, transitioned more than two decades ago, and now lives with her wife, Cynthia Laird. (They were married in 2008, when same-sex marriage was briefly legal in California.) On her Web site, she trumpets her potential victory -- there is a banner saying ''Making History!'' -- but played down the significance of her sex change in an interview.
''I'm not running for this office because I'm trying to be a transgender representative,'' she said. ''But it will have a positive effect on the transgender community.''
Not that gender issues have not been raised in some campaigns. In the Oklahoma House race, Ms. Novotny -- who had a sex change operation in 2007 -- shrugged off a recent e-mail from Charlie Meadows, the chairman of a conservative political action committee, which referred to her as an ''it.''
''That's just the typical politics I would expect out of that side,'' she said. ''And frankly it's what voters are tired of.''
Such a characterization seems less likely in San Francisco, which has a sizable population of transgender individuals. And Ms. Sparks, a tall, broad-shouldered woman with a quick smile, has significant public experience here: she served as the president of the city's police commission and currently is the executive director of the San Francisco Human Rights Commission. But it is her conservative bona fides that have attracted people like Jim Flood, a lifelong Republican and an heir to one of the city's founding families and fortunes.
Mr. Flood said that when he first heard of Ms. Sparks's ''unusual background,'' he wanted nothing to do with it. But he found himself impressed by her positions on issues like the city's proposed ''sit-lie'' law, which would make it illegal to sit or lie on public sidewalks for most of the day.
''She's got common sense,'' said Mr. Flood, at a campaign event. ''And business sense.''
This being San Francisco, of course, Ms. Sparks has also been criticized as being too cozy with developers and politicians associated with the Sixth District, which includes parts of downtown and the gritty Tenderloin neighborhood. ''Sparks is the candidate of the mayor and downtown,'' read a recent editorial in The San Francisco Bay Guardian. ''It's important that she be defeated.''
Ms. Sparks acknowledges being pro-business, but also is not shy about talking about her own past, which included bouts of electro-shock therapy, two divorces and a long stretch of estrangement from two of her three children.
They were hard times, she said, which San Francisco helped heal.
''I came to this city 15 years ago as a kind of city of refuge for me when I transitioned,'' Ms. Sparks said. ''And you know, I think it's time I gave back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: If elected, Theresa Sparks, above, would be the first transgender supervisor in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSGENDER PERSONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); JUDGES (87%); LGBT RIGHTS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); NAVIES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



702 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CROSSROADS COUNTY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2084 words

HEADLINE: In Colorado, Voters Voice Uncertainty and Anger

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Dalia Sussman contributed research.

 BODY:
LOVELAND, Colo. -- That Americans are angry and anxious heading toward the Nov. 2 elections has become a truism, an assumption built into candidate calculations from the lowest local alderman on up. Plot a voter's place on the rage scale, and voila, out pops a prediction of the expected anti-Democrat, or anti-establishment, backlash.
Voters like Daryl Pike have a different word for it: lost.
''Everything is fractured,'' said Mr. Pike, 63, a roofing salesman and lifelong Democrat from this city in northern Colorado. 
Mr. Pike said he felt that the country was on an uncharted course, economically and politically. That belief has torn him from the moorings of loyalty that he felt for decades to the Democrats. There is not one on the ballot in Colorado he really likes, he said. But he is not sure he's quite ready to vote for a Republican, either. ''I have no idea what I'm going to do,'' he said.
In dozens of interviews in Loveland and across Larimer County, a similar conclusion emerged time and again: uncertainty or trepidation about the future -- with the election simply an expression of those deeper currents.
On issues from the economy to the state of democracy, many people described themselves as out to sea and adrift. Some said they feared that lost jobs might never return. Others were clinging more tightly than ever to the things they thought worth fighting for: family, school, church.
That diffuse, hard-to-pin-down mood -- despairing or resolute, and, yes, sometimes simply angry -- will be transmuted into the black-or-white binary code of win or lose on Election Day. And Larimer will be pivotal to the outcome. Hard-fought races rage across this state, from governor to United States Senate, to seven seats in the House of Representatives, and this swing county an hour north of Denver -- historically Republican, recently more mixed -- could help decide the final tilt.
Though Republicans are widely expected to make big national gains, interviews and polls confirm that Americans are not ideologically driven any more now than they were when they made history and elected Barack Obama president in 2008.
What they want is reassurance -- a steady hand holding the helm in a direction that seems sure and true. Anger, people here said, is just insecurity tied in knots.
Uncharted Waters
Volatility and a kind of jumpy inclination against party fealty is easy to find in Larimer, with many people saying they plan to vote Republican in one race, Democratic in the next, while leaving some lines blank if they have come to detest all sides. A predictable surge in one direction? Maybe not.
Rachel Howes, for example, a 29-year-old dental hygienist in Fort Collins, the county's largest city, said she planned to vote mostly for Democrats, except in the governor's race, where she likes a conservative third-party candidate, Tom Tancredo, a former congressman. She opposes tax measures that would increase school financing, though she has children in public school.
Her measure of stability and how good to feel about the world is her husband's job as a carpenter.
''He's not finding work,'' she said.
Or consider James Cherry -- no handy label for him either. He is a structural engineer and an unaffiliated voter who leans, he said, toward the Republicans on gun rights and abortion.
But he is also heavily involved in philanthropy, and the federal health care overhaul passed by the Democrats touches on his passions about caring for others. He enthusiastically supported the change and has no patience for Republicans or Tea Party enthusiasts who want repeal. Indeed, he is unhappy with both parties that the law does not include a single-payer government option that liberal Democrats had favored. His wife, Julia, is on the same page.
''I've always volunteered for those underserved who don't have a voice,'' she said.
A former mayor of Fort Collins, Ed Stoner, a Republican, said he would vote mostly for Democrats -- including Betsy Markey for the local Congressional seat -- but abstain from the United States Senate race between Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat, and his challenger, Ken Buck, a Republican.
Roslyn Merrill, a stay-at-home mother, said she was so unhappy with both major party Senate candidates that she would support a third-party candidate.
Larimer County itself seems in transition to an uncertain place. The collapse of the dot-com bubble around 2000 hit the county hard, with its concentration of tech jobs, and by some measures things never returned to normal. Median income fell as the economy churned toward lower-paying employment, even before the recession.
College students, an important political constituency in 2008 in Larimer's -- and Colorado's -- shift toward the Democrats, have also been thrown a curve heading toward November.
The federal economic stimulus propped up the economy through money that flowed into Colorado State University, a dominant presence in Fort Collins. But with timing that creates its own pre-election wild card, the university said earlier this month that dwindling financial support could force big tuition increases.
News as Attack Ad
Combative, distorted, partisan information and news have been a huge factor in this election, making people like Patrick Piscani angry not just at politicians, but also at the system itself that has cranked and whirred its machinery to reach him.
Colorado's Senate race alone ranked first in the nation as of last week in the flood of money from outside groups, with more than $23 million spent mostly for attack ads, according to the Sunlight Foundation, which tracks campaign spending. Three close Congressional races, including the Fourth District here in Larimer County, drew $6.7 million more among them, mostly again to pay for invective.
''If I were to base it on what I've heard up until now, I wouldn't vote for anybody -- it's been horrible,'' Mr. Piscani said.
Mr. Piscani, 54, has been on his own journey through changing times, and that also affects where he stands. He became a street vendor in Fort Collins last year after a downsizing at the payroll processing company where he worked as a manager, and is now completing his first full season selling Italian sausages, bratwursts and other delicacies in the city's Old Town section.
''When the economy is down, this kind of food gets more popular,'' he said as he prepared his cart -- P. J.'s Curbside Grill -- for business on a recent morning. He is not sure yet whether life as a lunchtime entrepreneur will be an interlude or a permanent change. But on a crisp, sunny October day at least, Mr. Piscani said, it beats being behind a desk.
''I'll know by the end of the year whether this works,'' he said. ''If it doesn't then I'll crank up the resume.''
Mr. Piscani's sense of the economy as a mysterious black box of unknowns, his very livelihood a barometer of tough times, spills into his view of politics. The fusillades of television attack ads, he said, especially in the Senate race, have left him angry, confused and unable to decide. He will vote, he said, but based solely on reading and research between now and the election. The ads, he said, are tuned out.
Matt Rodriguez, 27, a maintenance technician in Fort Collins, said the bombardment of conflicting information was bad enough to paralyze him with indecision too. What's worse, he said, is that his friends parrot information from the ads that he does not believe is true.
''Everybody is butting heads,'' he said.
Bob Moore, 50, the executive editor of the local newspaper, The Coloradoan, said he thought that politics in Larimer County had been ''nationalized'' by those outside interests and by the fact that people are paying less attention to hometown news coverage. As at most newspapers, circulation at The Coloradoan has fallen and the staff has been cut.
''The personality that should be in a local race gets obliterated and you just have the Democrat and the Republican -- you don't have Betsy Markey and Cory Gardner,'' Mr. Moore said.
Changing Views
Beattie Elementary School, in a leafy neighborhood of Fort Collins, has cut its staff seven years out of the last nine as enrollment has fallen. The school may close entirely next year under a districtwide reorganization of underutilized schools.
''Those red dots -- you don't want to get those,'' said the principal, Sam Aldern, sitting in his office showing a reporter the district's assessment sheet of demographic and economic health. ''We got four out of five.''
Beattie's crisis has drawn in parents to be part of the discussion of what comes next, including Deb Tucker, a committed Democrat, and Tara Kropp, a stalwart Republican. Their participation brought them together as friends, they said, and then changed their views, subtly and differently.
What unites them, they said, is most important: a passionate and vehement opposition to the mania for tax cuts that they fear is sweeping the county, and Colorado. Two proposals on the state ballot, in particular, would devastate local education with spending caps or borrowing limits, the women say. Two measures to increase school financing are also on the local ballot in Fort Collins and face an uncertain fate.
''What's important is funding the schools, and if that increases my taxes, then that increases my taxes,'' said Ms. Kropp, 36, a mother of four who plans to vote a Republican ticket except for Mr. Buck in the Senate race, who she believes has shifted his position on abortion for political reasons and therefore cannot be trusted.
Ms. Tucker, 33, who has a daughter and son at Beattie -- where she went to school herself, and had Mr. Aldern as a teacher before he became principal -- said school involvement had heightened her belief that individuals could make a difference. She plans to vote a straight Democratic ticket.
''I think planning the closure of a school that's been open 30-plus years puts a pretty big spin on things,'' Ms. Tucker said. ''It makes you much more passionate.''
Ms. Kropp added, ''And you talk to more people with different views from your own.''
Ms. Kropp said she had come to feel more cynical about politicians than she used to, particularly those who support tax cuts but do not talk about the potential impacts.
''I guess I'm jaded now,'' she said. ''They just talk pretty.''
Alone and at Sea
Erica Michel is a one-woman economic index.
Before the recession, she was juggling two small businesses in Fort Collins, a day care service she did herself and a tanning salon, started by her parents, in a strip mall near the Colorado State campus. Her husband, Brian, managed a local auto-lube shop.
Now, she said, it is all undone. She put the salon up for sale last year after Mr. Michel lost his job. The day care business died when her primary clients moved away a few months ago. In a spot of good news, two employees at the salon -- 2010 Colorado State graduates whose job searches had been going nowhere -- recently landed better jobs, but that has left her alone at the shop, Sunset Beach Tanning, as the last full-time employee.
''I'm not the small business they talk about, I'm the small, small business,'' she said, referring to politicians' odes to small business.
Ms. Michel, 36, said that she already leaned toward the Republicans, but that the fine print of the federal health care overhaul pushed her into full embrace; the new law imposed a 10 percent surcharge on ultraviolet tanning.
''Someone called the other day asking if I was supporting Markey,'' Ms. Michel said. ''I said, 'Did she support the tanning tax?' ''
The caller did not know about a tanning tax, but called back to say yes, it was in the health care bill that Ms. Markey supported. ''Then I said, 'No I won't be supporting her.' ''
Mr. Michel, who has been commuting 150 miles a day to a job he found near Denver, also plans to vote Republican.
Ms. Michel said the deeper wellspring of her mood is that she simply did not see things getting better. Her fears are mirrored nationally. Two-thirds of Americans in an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll in August said they were not confident that life for the next generation would be better, up nine percentage points since June 2009.
Ms. Michel and her husband have been thinking lately that life in a smaller town, maybe in Nebraska where Mr. Michel has relatives, could be a good move.
''Life would be so much simpler in Nebraska,'' she said.
Crossroads County: Articles in this series are examining the political issues, voters and stakes in Larimer County, Colo., one swing county in a crucial state.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ERICA MICHEL: An owner of two small businesses, one of which has closed
TARA KROPP: Who plans to vote a Republican ticket except for a Democratic Senate candidate
DARYL PIKE: A roofing salesman and lifelong Democrat
PATRICK PISCANI: A street vendor and former manager at a payroll processing company
 BOB MOORE: Executive editor of the local newspaper, The Coloradoan (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Politically, Larimer is considered a swing county. (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



703 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Drug and Alcohol Abuse Growing in Iraqi Forces

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and OMAR AL-JAWOSHY; Reporting was contributed by Muhammed al-Obaidi and Yasir Ghazi in Baghdad, and employees of The New York Times in the Iraqi provinces of Anbar, Babil, Baghdad, Basra, Diyala, Nineveh, Kirkuk and Salahuddin.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- A growing number of Iraqi security force members are becoming dependent on drugs or alcohol, which has led to concerns about a significant addiction problem among the country's armed services as the insurgency remains a potent force and American troops prepare to depart at the end of next year.
In some regions of Iraq, military and police officials say, as many as 50 percent of their colleagues, including high-ranking officers, use drugs or alcohol while on duty. Those numbers, if correct, would cast doubt on the readiness of Iraqi forces to defend the country without American troop support.
The United States has spent more than $22 billion training and equipping Iraqi security forces since 2004, and the American military has repeatedly said Iraq's Army and police are capable of fending off armed insurgent groups. 
While there is no way to know the exact number of drug- and alcohol-dependent members among Iraq's 675,000-member security force, interviews with dozens of soldiers, police officers, political leaders, health officials, pharmacists and drug dealers around the country indicate that drug and alcohol use among the police and the military has become increasingly common and appears to have grown significantly during the past year or so.
Those who admit to using drugs and alcohol on duty acknowledge that the substances lead to erratic behavior, but say long hours working at checkpoints, constant fear and witnessing the grisly deaths of colleagues make drugs and alcohol less a choice than a necessity.
''Pills are cheaper than cigarettes and they make you more comfortable and relaxed,'' said Nazhan al-Jibouri, a police officer in Nineveh Province in northern Iraq. ''They help us forget that we are hungry, and they make it easier to deal with people. They encourage us during moments when we are facing death.''
Some senior police and army officers said that because drug abusers were typically among their most fearless fighters, they were loath to take disciplinary action against them.
Col. Muthana Mohammed, an army officer in Babil Province, in southern Iraq, said the problem had escalated in part because drug treatment was a rarity. ''The percentage of the addicted among the police and army has increased because there's no medical staff to help and there are no drug tests,'' he said.
A spokesman for Iraq's Defense Ministry, Maj. Gen. Mohammed al-Askari, denied that the military had a drug problem.
''This talk is exaggerated,'' he said. ''You can find one soldier or two on a brigade level, but I do not think it is something scary or popular, so it will not be a threat to our security forces. We have great intelligence systems in which one of our main duties is to follow the military's rule breakers. We have medical staff concerned with the matter of drug users, and if medical tests prove drug use, we will take the harshest punishment against them.''
The Iraqi police would not comment. The American military referred questions about drug abuse to Iraqi security forces.
Health officials say that on-duty drug and alcohol use among security force members is part of a larger problem of drug abuse in Iraq, where addiction has spread amid three decades of war and economic hardship.
The problem has been exacerbated by the recent proliferation of powerful prescription medications -- as well as of smuggled heroin, marijuana and hashish from Iran, Afghanistan and elsewhere. Police and Iraqi Army officials in Diyala Province, on the Iranian border, say they believe insurgents have moved into drug smuggling to finance their activities.
Illegal drugs in Iraq are readily available in cafes, markets and on the street via dealers, including elderly women who sell pills hidden beneath their abayas.
Iraqi security force members acknowledge that habitual drug and alcohol use play a role in a general lack of discipline among Iraqi soldiers and police officers and may have contributed to several startling displays of recent violence. Among these are the fatal shooting of three colleagues by a police officer in Kirkuk, and the killing of at least eight soldiers and police officers at Baghdad checkpoints who were taken by surprise by far smaller bands of insurgents during brazen daylight raids.
Maj. Gen. Hazim al-Khazraji, general inspector of the Kirkuk Police Department in northern Iraq, said drug and alcohol consumption had multiplied among police officers seeking to ease the monotony, fatigue and danger of their jobs.
''The percentage of drug users and drunken police officers will grow as long as there are alerts and extra duty,'' he said.
Jasim Harin, a soldier stationed in Baghdad, said he had used drugs -- usually pills or marijuana -- since 2005.
''It started during a time when we spent almost the entire month on duty,'' he said. ''We were always being targeted, and it was killing me. Drugs are the easiest way to run away.''
Iraqi pharmacists and health officials said medicines intended to treat ailments from epilepsy to depression and diarrhea to insomnia are either purchased without prescription or stolen from pharmacies and mental hospitals. Some pills provide a brief euphoria, while others lead to an intense high lasting as long as 24 hours.
Among the more popular pills are a potent form of Valium made in Iran and nicknamed ''the bloody,'' because of its red package; a pill called ''Abu Hajib'' or Father of the Eyebrow -- because of its parallel squiggly lines -- that packs a heroin-like punch; a pink pill nicknamed the ''Lebanani'' that produces feelings of bliss; amphetamines; muscle relaxants; and a variety of hallucinogens.
When those drugs are not readily available, security force members say they guzzle several bottles of cough syrup at a time or drink spirits, including a potent Iraqi version of arak made from fermented dates that goes by the slang name of ''white.''
The units that appear to have the worst addiction problems appear to be those with the toughest jobs: those that staff checkpoints in tense cities like Samarra, Baquba, Baghdad and Mosul, and members of Iraq's special forces and rapid deployment teams, which perform a majority of the country's antiterrorism work.
At a Baghdad checkpoint on a recent night, a police officer asked a driver whether he had any ''white.'' When he was told no, the officer suggested that the driver bring him some the next time he came through.
Khalid al-Muhamadawi, 29, said he began selling drugs to soldiers and police officers in Baghdad after a recent arrest. Since then, he said, business has been brisk.
''One day they searched me and found drugs inside my bag, so they detained me,'' he said. ''They said, 'Hey, why don't you become our friend and we'll become your friend?' I agreed and after that I have become their dearest friend, because I provide them with relaxing pills.''
Some cities have recently established drug enforcement squads, including Falluja, in western Iraq.
The squad recently arrested a man who possessed about 200,000 pills, said Maj. Faisal al-Issawi, its head.
''He came from the southern provinces and planned to give the pills free to security force members because he wanted them to become addicted,'' Major Issawi said. ''Then he planned to start charging them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Akram Hussein, above, a police officer, was several hours into guard duty on a street corner in Baghdad. In some members of Iraq's Army and police, such long stretches have contributed to drug and alcohol abuse. Below, a drug rehabilitation ward at Ibn Rushud hospital in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); ARMIES (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



704 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SOMERS, JACK A.

 BODY:
SOMERS--Jack A.,beloved husband, father and grandfather passed away peacefully at home in Watchung, New Jersey on October 22 at the age of 97. A lifelong resident of New York City, he retired in 1978 after forty years teaching social studies and economics at the High School of Art and Design in Manhattan. For more than twenty years he was the teacher-in- charge of Wadleigh Evening High School in Harlem. 
He spent a career being "the most popular teacher". He graduated from Stuyvesant High School (1930) and City College (1934). He earned a Master of Science in Education in 1936. Mr. Somers served in the US Army in the European theater during WW II. He was predeceased by his beloved wife of 67 years, Helen R. Somers, who passed away in February 2010. He is survived by his two children, Howard Somers, MD, of Coronado, CA, and Maura Somers Dughi of Watchung, NJ, daughter-in-law, Jean (Somers) and son-in-law Robert Dughi. He is also survived by his five grandchildren, Lisa, Bobby, and Jamie Dughi, and Richard and Daniel Somers. He showed us all how to appreciate life and to love each other. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be sent to Prevent Child Abuse New Jersey, www.preventchildabusenj.org or CASA of New Jersey, www.casaofnj.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); CHILD ABUSE (68%); ARMIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



705 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: A Fund to Invest in Social Start-Ups

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
Hoping to capitalize on the popularity of social networking, the well-known venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers is teaming up with heavyweights of the social Web to create a $250 million fund to invest in social start-ups.
The ''sFund'' was announced by John Doerr, a Kleiner veteran, on Thursday at a star-studded press conference at Facebook headquarters in Palo Alto, Calif. The fund includes investments from Amazon, Facebook, the Zynga Gaming Network, Comcast, Liberty Media and Allen & Company, as well as Kleiner and some unnamed individuals. The chief executives of Amazon, Facebook and Zynga -- Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg and Mark Pincus -- all spoke at the event. They declined to say how much each party put into the fund. 
In an interview, Mr. Doerr said applications and infrastructure to support social experiences on the Web would continue to grow rapidly.
''We are in a new applications economy that was pioneered by Steve Jobs,'' he said. ''Offering these apps, these services, together on great big social platforms is the next big thing.''
Well, it may already be a big thing.
Kleiner is creating the sFund at a time when investing in social is hardly new. Several prominent venture capital firms like Accel Partners, Greylock Partners, Spark Capital, Union Square Ventures and others, have been heavy investors in social start-ups. And several companies, like the game makers Playfish and Playdom, have already been sold for hundreds of millions of dollars.
Kleiner's own record in social networking has been mixed. The firm, for example, was an early investor in Friendster, the pioneering social network that saw itself overtaken by MySpace and Facebook and whose demise was chronicled in great detail. Kleiner also has invested in Zynga, which is by many measures the most successful social start-up after Facebook. And it reportedly netted $100 million recently when mobile gaming company Ngmoco was bought by Japan's DeNA for $400 million.
Mr. Doerr said that the sFund would make investments ranging from $100,000 to $100 million. The sFund has already backed one company, Cafebots, which remains in stealth mode.
Mr. Doerr said that the idea for the fund came from the success of Zynga, a company the he previously described as having ''the most revenue, growth and happy customers of any three-year-old venture we've ever backed.'' Kleiner is one of Silicon Valley's most successful venture capital firms and has invested in iconic companies like Amazon, Google, Netscape and Sun Microsystems.
''The platform has become so robust and so pervasive,'' Mr. Doerr said. ''Entrepreneurs have seen that there can been very valuable companies on the Facebook platform.'' He said the sFund may well support applications that run on other platforms, and he said the announcement of the fund should be an inducement for entrepreneurs to focus on this area.
''The benefit to us is very clear,'' Mr. Zuckerberg said in an interview. He said that the sFund would help to create many more companies that use Facebook as a platform.
In 2007, Facebook created a $10 million fund, the fbFund, to make early-stage investment in start-ups that use the Facebook platform.
Kleiner has long been known to create specialized funds that focus on certain industries. They include a Java Fund in the 1990s that focused on companies building on the programming technology created by Sun Microsystems and, more recently, a $200 million iFund dedicated to investing in apps for Apple's iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch.
Bing Gordon, a Kleiner partner who is a veteran of the gaming industry and a board member of Zynga, will manage the sFund.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS, VIA BUSINESS WIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOBILE MEDIA (71%); GAMING (70%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); GREYLOCK PARTNERS (82%); ALLEN & CO INC (71%); NGMOCO (64%); DENA CO LTD (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); 2432 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (82%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: L JOHN DOERR (79%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (55%); STEVEN JOBS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



706 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Wife of American Held in Cuba Pleads for His Release and Apologizes to Castro

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The wife of an American contractor detained in Cuba nearly a year ago has sent a letter to President Raul Castro, apologizing for her husband's actions and pleading for his release.
''To the extent his work may have offended you or your government,'' Judy Gross wrote, referring to her husband, Alan P. Gross, ''he and I are genuinely remorseful.''
Excerpts of the letter, which was dated Aug. 4, were first reported on Sunday by Reuters. A lawyer who represents Mrs. Gross said she wanted news of the letter to coincide with debates about Cuba -- Latin America's last Communist outpost -- that are scheduled to begin Monday at the United Nations and in the European Union. 
In a vote that has become an annual ritual at the United Nations, most members, except for a handful of the United States' closest allies, are expected to adopt a resolution condemning Washington's four-decade embargo against Cuba.
Meanwhile, the European Union is scheduled to take up debate of its so-called common position on Cuba, which calls on member nations to urge Cuba to embark on ''a process of transition to pluralistic democracy.''
Mr. Gross's detention is expected to loom large over both debates. A 61-year-old diabetic and the father of two, he was detained last December while traveling in Cuba as part of a semi-covert program of the United States Agency for International Development, the foreign assistance arm of the State Department, aimed at undermining the Cuban government.
American officials have acknowledged that Mr. Gross entered Cuba without the proper visa, and have said he was distributing satellite telephones to religious dissidents.
The Cuban authorities have said Mr. Gross's activities amounted to espionage, though they have yet to file formal charges against him, raising questions about their motives for detaining him.
In an effort to win Mr. Gross's release, administration officials and Congressional aides said Usaid had quietly changed the way it administers its programs in Cuba, shifting the focus from those intent on ''regime change'' to those that support educational exchanges and the growth of small businesses.
The officials said the United States had enlisted many Latin American heads of state to advocate on behalf of Mr. Gross. Washington's top envoy to Latin America, Arturo Valenzuela, discussed Mr. Gross's detention with Cuba's foreign minister, Bruno Rodriguez, at a meeting in September.
And in recent months, the United States allowed the wife of a convicted Cuban spy, Gerardo Hernandez, to visit her husband in prison for the first time since his arrest 12 years ago.
In recent months, Cuba allowed Mrs. Gross and one of her daughters to visit Mr. Gross in the Havana military medical facility where he is held because of serious health problems.
In an interview last week, Havana's representative in Washington, Jorge Bolanos, criticized the United States for continuing to uphold its embargo despite President Obama's criticism of the policy during his presidential campaign.
''I see Alan Gross as one episode,'' Mr. Bolanos said. ''I don't think his detention should be used to justify a failed policy that has existed for decades.''
In her plea to Mr. Castro, according to the Reuters report, Mrs. Gross said that Cuba and the United States were using her husband as a ''pawn.''
''I recognize today that the Cuban government may not like the type of work that Alan was doing in Cuba,'' she wrote. ''But I want you to know that Alan loves the people of Cuba, and he only wanted to help them.''
She added, ''He never intended them, or your government, any harm.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); RELIGION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ARRESTS (62%); HEALTH CARE (61%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



707 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: DAYS TO ELECTION 8: Declaring Independence, Even as Obama Stumps

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS - Through the blur of final campaign speeches and television advertisements, here's one thing voters everywhere can expect to see: the independence reflex.
Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat, showed it over the weekend even as he welcomed President Obama to Las Vegas to help rally partisans to the polls. Asked about the burden of having had to ''carry water'' for the president, the majority leader bristled.
''I don't work for the president,'' he said in an interview. ''I don't carry his water or anybody in the administration's water.'' 
Considering how faithfully Mr. Reid has worked to advance Mr. Obama's agenda, it sounds like a ritualized protest. On Saturday, the opening skit of the NBC show ''Saturday Night Live'' mocked his stance, depicting Mr. Reid as telling the crowd, ''We're not really that close,'' after first whispering to Mr. Obama, ''It would really help if I could put some distance between us.''
The phenomenon is hardly limited to Mr. Reid, or to Democrats. But it is especially important to Democrats in the midterm elections, since they are on the defensive as the party in power at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue.
It is evident in the small cadre of House Democrats who have declared that they will not back Nancy Pelosi for another term as speaker. In one of the most striking Senate campaign commercials this year, Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a Democrat, fires a bullet into a sheaf of papers labeled ''cap and trade,'' representing Mr. Obama's energy policy.
If anything, the need to demonstrate at least rhetorical independence has become more important to candidates as the actual level of internal disagreement within each party has diminished. Over the last generation, Democrats have grown more homogenously liberal while Republicans have grown more conservative; partisan voting in Congress has correspondingly grown more cohesive.
In intraparty contests, displays of independence get punished, as Senators Robert F. Bennett of Utah and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska found out in losing Republican primaries this year. But in tightly contested general elections, candidates flaunt their willingness to buck the party line as they battle over a relatively small number of swing voters.
Mr. Obama will barnstorm on the campaign's final weekend for candidates who, like Mr. Reid, have found it useful to display a stance of independence. He will join Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Ohio, where Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat, has been pressing Washington to take a tougher line on China's currency policy.
Next Saturday, the president is to travel to Bridgeport, Conn., to support Richard Blumenthal, the Democratic Senate candidate. Mr. Blumenthal has complained that the administration and Congressional Democrats cut a sweetheart deal with the pharmaceutical industry in pushing to overhaul the health care system.
That same day, Mr. Obama will stump in Pennsylvania for the Senate candidate Joe Sestak, who has made independence a theme since he defeated Senator Arlen Specter, the Obama-backed incumbent, in the Democratic primary.
On Saturday, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee distributed an editorial endorsement from The Harrisburg Patriot-News with the headline ''Sestak for Senate: He Has the Courage Needed for Independence.''
Like Ms. Pelosi, who has advised embattled House Democrats to ''just win your election,'' even if it means criticizing her, Mr. Obama does not take it personally, according to his advisers.
''People should run the races they feel they have to run and want to run,'' said David Axelrod, the president's top political strategist. ''There's no hand-wringing or hurt feelings.''
Republican candidates, unburdened by the sort of high-profile targets that Mr. Obama and Ms. Pelosi represent, do not have the same incentive to challenge their party leadership. But they, too, have maintained tactical distance from Republican plans that might complicate their Election Day prospects.
Mr. Sestak's Republican opponent, Pat Toomey, has run as a staunch economic conservative. But like many Republican House and Senate candidates, he has declined to endorse the steps to curb Social Security and Medicare spending in the Roadmap for America's Future offered by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the ranking minority member of the House Budget Committee.
''They're playing a game of hide-and-seek on their policy proposals,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''What they want is to win.''
And that's something, in the campaign's final eight days, that both parties can agree on.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Senator Harry Reid at a rally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); ROBERT BENNETT (58%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%) NEVADA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



708 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: In Senate Debate, Jabs Sometimes Get Personal

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York and the Republican seeking to unseat him, Jay Townsend, sparred over health care, federal spending and Wall Street on Sunday in a debate marked by tart exchanges.
Mr. Townsend attacked Mr. Schumer again and again, at one point accusing the senator of selling out the interests of New York to curry favor with his colleagues in Washington as he attempts to ascend in the Senate hierarchy.
Specifically, Mr. Townsend, a businessman from Cornwall-on-Hudson, charged that Mr. Schumer had supported the health care bill Congress approved this year even though it cut federal aid to New York by about $1 billion. The health care legislation was a priority of President Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress. 
''If this man will do this to climb the leadership ladder, imagine what he would do to hold on to stay in the throne,'' Mr. Townsend said, referring to Mr. Schumer, who is frequently mentioned by his colleagues as a possible successor to the current Democratic majority leader in the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada.
But Mr. Schumer protested, saying that the legislation included no such cuts in aid to New York because he had warned Democratic leaders that he would withdraw his support if New York were shortchanged. Mr. Schumer said the final legislation contained additional funds for the state.
''I worked real hard along with the Congressional delegation to reverse it,'' he said, referring to the cuts Mr. Townsend mentioned. ''I went to the president himself and said I wouldn't vote for the bill unless it's reversed. As a result, New York got $2.1 billion.''
Mr. Schumer then took a few swipes at Mr. Townsend, who stood only a few feet away.
At one point, the senator, sounding exasperated, noted all the complaints Mr. Townsend had about legislative initiatives that Congress passed to address the nation's economy, including the Wall Street bailout and the economic stimulus plan.
''It's very easy to point the finger,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''Come up with some constructive solutions.''
The two differed on other issues as well, including a proposed Muslim community center and mosque near the site of the World Trade Center attacks.
Asked by one of the moderators if he thought the proposed mosque was a good idea, the senator said flatly: ''I am not opposed.''
But Mr. Townsend was unequivocal. ''I oppose it,'' he said. ''I believe it is an offensive and insensitive to the relatives of the victims.''
The debate, held at Marist College in Poughkeepsie and sponsored by NY1, was the only meeting between Mr. Schumer, a two-term incumbent, and Mr. Townsend, a market-research consultant who is barely registering in the polls.
Mr. Townsend rarely passed up an opportunity to take jabs at Mr. Schumer. But Mr. Schumer had little to gain by engaging Mr. Townsend and, as a result, largely stuck to a recitation of what he described as a record that included assisting small businesses and middle-class families.
Mr. Townsend even got slightly personal when he made passing reference to an episode last year in which it was reported that Mr. Schumer used a profanity on a plane to Washington while referring to a flight attendant who told him to turn off his cellphone before takeoff. Mr. Schumer, the state's senior senator, subsequently called the flight attendant to apologize.
''Who can forget what Senator Schumer said to the attendant?'' Mr. Townsend said. Mr. Schumer did not respond to Mr. Townsend's remark.
The race between Mr. Schumer and Mr. Townsend has attracted little attention, reflecting the strong position Mr. Schumer finds himself in politically as he seeks his third term.
More than that, Mr. Schumer, typically a highly visible politician, has been barely a presence on the campaign trail, though his campaign has been running many television commercials.
A recent New York Times poll showed that Mr. Schumer had a significant lead over Mr. Townsend, with 61 percent of likely voters supporting Mr. Schumer and 21 percent backing Mr. Townsend.
For some time, Mr. Townsend had been asking Mr. Schumer to debate him. In an effort to prod him into debating, he charged that the senator was reluctant to defend his record in public.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer, a second-term Democrat from New York, right, and his Republican challenger, Jay Townsend, a businessman, debated Sunday at Marist College in Poughkeepsie. (POOL PHOTO BY KARL RABE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (59%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); HARRY REID (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



709 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Bands Dream Globally, Play Locally

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
The sweetest white lie of the CMJ Music Marathon came from the folky songwriter Lia Ices, leading her band at the Lower East Side club Pianos on Thursday night. While half the crowd chatted indifferently, she sang, ''For only you I sing, for only you.'' Yet Ms. Ices, whose debut album is due in January, was playing CMJ, along with more than 1,000 other groups, for precisely the opposite reason. She was seeking a chance to be heard, sooner or later, by a larger audience.
The five-day music marathon, an annual event since 1980, is a showcase for the hopeful and the tenacious: baby bands trying to convert blog mentions into tour dates, indie-circuit troupers reminding the world they still exist, a few big names seeking indie credibility. Kanye West performed on Saturday night at the #Offline Festival, presented at the Brooklyn Bowl by the online music magazine Pitchfork as a challenge to CMJ (and featuring repeat appearances by many CMJ bands). 
A concert at Madison Square Garden by the French band Phoenix, with Dirty Projectors and Wavves, implied that indie-rock could reach a big audience; the elusive Daft Punk made a surprise appearance. Daniel Lanois, U2's producer, brought the duo version of his band Black Dub -- playing guitar with the soulful singer Trixie Whitley -- to the tiny Rockwood Music Hall on Saturday.
Nearly all the CMJ showcases were club size. On the streets of the Lower East Side and Williamsburg, where most of the showcases took place, conversations revolved around T-shirt sales, licensing deals, corporate sponsors, tour arrangements and other ways musicians are making a livelihood now that they can't count on sales of recordings.
Part of the marathon, for those who paid $295 to $495 to register, was a convention held at New York University, with panel discussions promising advice on surviving in the music business. Many exhibitors were Internet middlemen, promising evaluation, exposure and marketing -- for a percentage of course.
Despite the raw number of bands, this was clearly a recession-era CMJ. With the Internet as a perpetual showcase for music, and blogs frantically competing to discover the newest acts, a live appearance at CMJ (or its larger, better-organized springtime counterpart, South by Southwest in Austin) is no longer the only way for a band to be heard.
This year, it seemed, CMJ was less of a magnet than in the past for bands from around the United States; apparently they saved their gas money and updated their Web pages instead. A huge majority of showcase slots went to musicians from New York City, particularly Brooklyn -- which, luckily, has good bands galore. When Brahms, a synthesizer-driven band from Brooklyn, played an afternoon show on Tuesday, its lead singer, Cale Parks, announced that he had walked to the club from his day job.
The music too has grown leaner and more direct. Solo and two-member bands were all over CMJ, like Buke and Gass, who played dizzying two-guitar polyrhythms, and She Keeps Bees, a stark, bluesy guitar-and-drums duo. So were tracks played from laptops, like the perky electropop of Oh Land and the crashing beats and giddy falsetto of Baths.
Perhaps by coincidence, the last night of CMJ included a concert by the 1970s synth-pop hit maker Gary Numan, who could have heard echoes of his music (and his old equipment) throughout CMJ. But indie-rock has also been studying hip-hop, with its harsher, junkier sounds and bruising low bass. Salem, a three-member group that's an unlikely combination of ethereality and low-end impact, played a set as murky and imposing as the smoke-machine haze that enveloped it.
Meanwhile hip-hop has been studying indie-rock; the teenage rapper Dominique Young Unique raced through tracks that kept switching genre. The rap group Das Racist proved it's not a novelty act by shouting its way through smart, allusion-slinging songs that grapple with, among other things, identity politics and brand recognition.
Where indie-rock has long been a haven for experimentation, now bands are hunkering down to make people dance or offer simple, singalong choruses, suitable for the pop radio of yesteryear. Dale Earnhardt Jr. Jr., from Detroit, piled on jokey visuals suggesting some satire of commercialism -- Nascar-style coveralls, big light-up letters for JR JR -- yet sang wistful love songs reminiscent of Hall and Oates.
Beach Fossils, from Brooklyn, merged surf-rock reverb with the catchy guitar layers of 1980s new wave. Zowie, from New Zealand, sang tough-girl taunts atop pushy dance-rock beats, part 1980s throwback and part club contender. And there was no shortage of singer-songwriters playing semiconfessional songs that would welcome TV or movie soundtrack placements.
But in a showcase as sprawling as CMJ, pop was far from the only option. Morning Teleportation, from Portland, Ore., and Royal Bangs, from Knoxville, Tenn., crammed ideas into songs that leaped impatiently, and gleefully, from style to style. Glasser and Prince Rama, in very different ways, treated songs like rituals -- one meditative and hinting at Asia, one splashy and psychedelic. Braids, from Montreal, played rhapsodic songs, with stretches of tinkling Minimalism cresting in rock and surprisingly blunt lyrics, that reward long attention spans. Another Montreal band, Suuns, played a set of brilliant, riveting permutations on the drone.
Indie-rock can be nostalgic for its own past -- perhaps rightfully so. Cloud Nothings, from Cleveland, played good old punk-pop as a nerd's revenge, pounding and scrabbling to make good tunes frenetic. No Joy was one among many bands hunched over guitars and busily rekindling the tremolo, feedback and overtones of late-1980s shoegazer rock -- a tingling, immersive experience that still can't be downloaded.
Five days of the CMJ Music Marathon is an annual reminder of how much music is being made with more creativity than budget, and of the odds facing even the most determined players. One model for CMJ's digital-era music careers was defined by the three-woman Supercute!, who had an indoor showcase on Tuesday but spent much of the festival on a Ludlow Street sidewalk by a chain-link fence, under a No Parking sign. The trio wore shiny clothes and strummed ukuleles while twirling Hula Hoops, singing tunes by Led Zeppelin and Melanie. (They have their own too.) They were selling CDs, accepting donations and working hard for every bit they earned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Lia Ices, far right, performing at Pianos on the Lower East Side as part of the CMJ Music Marathon. Below, Gary Numan, the 1970s synth-pop hit maker, at Best Buy Theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
From left, Julia Cumming, June Lei and Rachel Trachtenburg of Supercute!, performing on Ludlow Street. They spent much of the festival on the sidewalk.
 Kanye West performed at the Brooklyn Bowl as part of the #Offline Festival, a rival to CMJ. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (51%)

PERSON: KANYE WEST (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



710 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Grasping for the Center in a Tight Connecticut House Race

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Bridgeport, Conn.
Jim Himes and Dan Debicella look as if they could be sitting next to each other on the 7:52 from Darien.
Mr. Himes, 44, a first-term Democratic congressman in a district that had elected Republicans for 40 years, is a former Goldman Sachs investment banker and Rhodes scholar. Mr. Debicella, 36, a Republican state senator running against him, has a Harvard M.B.A. and is a former McKinsey and Company management consultant. (Mr. Himes's Harvard degree is a B.A.)
Don't expect to find too much Tea Party railing against elitists here in the elites' home turf in Connecticut's Fourth Congressional District, which is dominated by the Fairfield County suburbs and the faded industrial city of Bridgeport. What you do find is a slice of political Americana that reached a tipping point in 2008 when Mr. Himes defeated the 21-year Republican incumbent, Christopher Shays. 
When he came to Congress, Mr. Shays was one of nine Republican representatives from the six New England states, once home to Yankee moderates who helped define a Republican species. When he lost, New England didn't have a single Republican in the House for the first time in a century and a half.
So this year presents at least two questions. First, can Republicans repopulate their historic roosting grounds in New England? And if they do, is there any role for a Shays-style moderate in a party moving ever rightward?
Whatever the answers, there is still something appealing in a back-to-the-future contest that even now seems to be a frantic race to the middle.
''You have to appeal to the rich, the middle class and the poor,'' Mr. Debicella said. ''Every district should be like this one.''
Of course, even here, Democrats and Republicans can seem to occupy different planets.
On Tuesday, you could have found Mr. Himes at an exuberant ceremony for 17 graduates of a stimulus-financed program called Green-Up Bridgeport, which teaches ''green'' construction and hazard-remediation skills to low-income people, including high school dropouts, ex-offenders and the unemployed.
And you could have found Mr. Debicella that evening in Norwalk, on the radio show of Peter Schiff. a financial commentator, former Republican Senate candidate and Tea Party favorite. Mr. Debicella stopped just short of endorsing the more dicey political positions Mr. Schiff brought up -- doing away with the Department of Education and other entire federal departments and making immediate cuts in Social Security. But he agreed on almost everything else, and walked away with a $2,400 campaign contribution.
But rather than this year's standard menu of red meat for the base, the Fourth is about turnout and finding the sweet spot in the middle, a balancing act perfected by Mr. Shays.
For Mr. Himes that means arguing that Mr. Debicella talks about cutting spending but never says how to do it, and has a record on the environment and women's issues far to the right of Mr. Shays's. ''He can't wear the coat of Chris Shays, though he tries,'' Mr. Himes said.
And it means breaking with the party on key issues, as by favoring a temporary extension of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy, probably wise politics in Fairfield County.
For Mr. Debicella it means tacking to the social middle. He was known as a relatively conservative legislator endorsed for the State Senate by the Family Institute of Connecticut, which opposes abortion rights and same-sex marriage. But he has embraced the moderate label in the Congressional race and, in an interview, said: ''I'm actually very liberal socially.''
And it means, as elsewhere, tying Mr. Himes to the unpopular aspects of President Obama and the Democrats. ''Himes talks like a moderate, but then he goes down there and votes 94 percent of the time with Nancy Pelosi,'' Mr. Debicella said. He called him ''a rubber-stamp Democrat.''
Polls show the race as virtually dead even, but Mr. Debicella raised far more money in the last reporting period, and there are plenty of reasons for Mr. Himes to be worried. He won in 2008 as Barack Obama swept the state, mostly because of a startling turnout in Bridgeport, in which Mr. Shays got only 19 percent of the vote. Mr. Obama is expected to campaign in Bridgeport on Saturday, followed by Bill Clinton on Sunday, signs of how hard the Democrats are trying to stimulate turnout in the city.
Given the prevailing winds, it seems almost certain that some New England seats will flip back to the Republicans, a reminder of the half-life of seemingly seismic moments. Mr. Himes complains that Mr. Debicella welcomed stimulus funds in his district and now runs against them.
''It is deeply deceptive, deeply hypocritical and relies on anger,'' Mr. Himes said. But, he added: ''I'm not saying it's ineffective.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Jim Himes, Democrat from Greenwich, left, at an event in Bridgeport, is trying to fend off a challenge from State Senator Dan Debicella, a Republican from Shelton, who visited a radio program in Fairfield. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (61%); GREEN BUILDING (61%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JIM HIMES (92%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010



711 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1953 words

HEADLINE: Guardians of TV Morals, Bowed

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- These are difficult days for the decency police.
The Parents Television Council spent most of the last decade as a conservative superstar in the culture wars. By pressuring the Federal Communications Commission to crack down on racy programming, the council was responsible for record-setting fines against media giants like CBS and the News Corporation.
But the organization now finds itself damaged, defanged by court challenges to the F.C.C.'s hard-line position, by its own dwindling finances and by internal troubles that resulted in its accusing a former senior employee of extortion. Meanwhile, the entertainment industry -- once so afraid of the council's wrath that Fox blurred the naked behind of an animated character -- is pushing the boundaries of taste with renewed intensity.
Forget cartoon nudity. One of CBS's new fall sitcoms is called ''$#*! My Dad Says.'' A catchy song with a highly vulgar title and chorus by the Warner Music Group singer Cee Lo Green has burned up the Web. Miley Cyrus, the 17-year-old Disney star, writhes on a bed in black underwear in her new music video. 
The council has tried to focus public indignation on such programming, but the efforts have mostly failed to gain serious traction.
A statement it issued on Oct. 8 regarding Ms. Cyrus's video, calling it ''unfortunate that she would participate in such a sexualized video like this one,'' was mild by council standards (and did not note that her father, Billy Ray Cyrus, is on the council's advisory board).
The council is more exercised by ''$#*! My Dad Says,'' declaring on Sept. 17 that it would ''not rest'' until the network changed the title or the show was canceled. It may be a while. Pressure on advertisers has long been one of the sharpest arrows in the council's quiver, but the sitcom, starring William Shatner, has so far carried a full roster of ads for each episode, according to CBS. One advertiser is Burger King.
New fodder is not in short supply. On Wednesday, the council was infuriated by GQ magazine, which published sexualized photos of ''Glee'' cast members in its November issue. The actresses, unlike Ms. Cyrus, are adults, but noting that ''Glee'' is a show about high school, the council issued a statement saying the display ''borders on pedophilia.'' To what end, though?
''Advertisers still fear the Parents Television Council, but not as much as they used to,'' said John Rash, who teaches mass media and politics at the University of Minnesota and is a former executive at Campbell Mithun, a media-buying agency in Minneapolis. ''It's hard for the council to stir up indignation about cultural issues at a time of economic woe.''
Timothy F. Winter, the council's president, said his organization, albeit weakened because of the recession, was as relevant as ever. This month, for instance, the council announced that it had persuaded pharmaceutical companies to participate in an initiative to alert parents about which broadcast television shows would contain ads for Viagra and other erectile dysfunction drugs. The council also see progress in forcing the greater regulation of violent video games.
''The downturn had a huge impact, but I feel we've turned a corner,'' Mr. Winter said. ''We're not out of the woods, but we are told all the time that we are the beacon of light out there. Families rely greatly on our work.''
Mr. Winter said that he was confident that the campaign against CBS would bear fruit. ''At the end of the day, we're hopeful that advertisers will realize they shouldn't be associated with excrement,'' he said.
The troubles of the Parents Television Council, founded in 1995 by the conservative activist L. Brent Bozell III, appear to have started about two years ago. As the organization successfully busied itself with cleaning up America's airwaves, its internal operations grew messy, an examination of internal documents and Internal Revenue Service forms shows.
Escalating costs collided with declining donations, resulting in a 2008 loss of almost $1 million. In 2009, as the recession battered fund-raising efforts anew, council revenue totaled $2.9 million, a 26 percent drop from the previous year. To cut costs, the organization has reduced its staff by 38 percent over the last two years.
The council's elaborate reports -- given provocative titles like ''MTV Smut Peddlers'' -- have grown infrequent, severely hampering the organization's lobbying and fund-raising efforts. In 2008, the council published four major reports; it published one in 2009 and has published none so far this year. (Mr. Winter said he planned to publish three reports in the next two months, including one centered on online video.)
During this period, the council encountered difficulties with its direct-mail fund-raising system. Like many nonprofit groups, the council raises money by mail: sign and return this petition -- preferably with a donation -- and we will send it to the F.C.C. But internal documents show that, at least for a period of some months, the council was opening tens of thousands of envelopes, looking for money, and skipping the rest of the steps.
In a March 2009 e-mail to Mr. Winter, Patrick W. Salazar, who was the council's vice president for development but is now one of its critics and has been accused by the group of trying to extort money from it, wrote, ''Almost 195,000 pieces of donor/member mail was never sent to the intended recipient.'' He added, ''Most of these were time-sensitive docs whose value is now shot.'' That September, Mr. Salazar sent another concerned note to Mr. Winter about the fulfillment of direct-mail petitions.
''Dude, I told you I was working on fulfillment,'' Mr. Winter responded. ''It is under control.''
Mr. Winter said that he had done his best to sort through the backlog, but he conceded that ultimately, the council decided that a stack of petitions was too old to be of any value. The council says it is now caught up.
Daniel Borochoff, president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a charity watchdog that gives the council a ''C-plus'' rating for financial efficiency based on its I.R.S. filings, said unfulfilled direct mail should ring ''serious alarms'' with potential donors. ''It certainly tarnishes the credibility of this organization,'' Mr. Borochoff said.
Mr. Salazar was also troubled by membership claims. For instance, council leaders put membership at ''more than 1.3 million.'' But that number counts people who have signed a petition or donated since the group's founding, according to the council. In reality, 12,000 people at most respond to annual fund-raising appeals, Mr. Salazar said.
Mr. Winter says there is nothing misleading about the council's membership claims, asserting that many nonprofit groups count participation in a similar fashion. As for the meager response to fund-raising appeals, Mr. Winter said that is partly a reflection of the number of solicitations sent out. ''We can't afford to communicate with everybody on our total membership list every time,'' he said.
In November, Mr. Salazar left the council. He says he quit. The group says he was fired but will not cite a reason. Mr. Salazar then started an effort to extract thousands of dollars in severance by threatening to alert the news media, including The New York Times, about the internal dysfunction he said he witnessed. In addition to the direct-mail predicament and the membership count, Mr. Salazar claimed a laundry list of other wrongdoings.
In a statement, the council said that Mr. Salazar had ''demanded that the P.T.C. pay him a substantial sum of cash or he would contact P.T.C. members and the media with certain allegations.'' It continued: ''His allegations are littered with patently false statements and misrepresentations of the truth. The P.T.C. has refused to negotiate a financial payment (or any other terms).''
The council asked the Los Angeles Police Department to investigate Mr. Salazar for extortion. A police spokesman said an investigation was completed and presented to the city attorney, who rejected it on the grounds that Mr. Salazar's actions did not constitute a crime.
Mr. Salazar, who is now a fund-raiser for Pierce College in Woodland Hills, Calif., said in an interview that he wanted the council to pay him to go away but denied that his requests amounted to extortion.
As the council was dealing with Mr. Salazar, it ran into another buzz saw. In July, a federal appeals court struck down one of the council's most promoted achievements, an F.C.C. policy barring the use of ''fleeting expletives'' on television.
The decision stemmed from a challenge by Fox, CBS and other broadcasters to the F.C.C.'s decision in 2004 to begin enforcing a stricter standard of what kind of language is allowed on free, over-the-air television.
The court unanimously ruled that the policy created a chilling effect because it left broadcasters without a guide to what the commission would find offensive. The F.C.C. has since appealed the ruling, arguing that the court overstepped its bounds. That petition is still pending.
Mr. Winter called the decision ''a slap in the face'' for families. ''We were frankly expecting it,'' he said, adding that he was confident the appeal would succeed.
The stated mission of the Parents Television Council is ''to restore responsibility and decency to the entertainment industry.'' Although officially nonpartisan, it shares office space with another nonprofit group founded by Mr. Bozell, the Media Research Center, which combats what it sees as liberal bias in the news media. Mr. Bozell is paid by the Media Research Center, an arrangement that has been criticized by some watchdogs, including Mr. Borochoff of the American Institute of Philanthropy.
To further its mission, the council uses a combination of technology and human analysts to monitor prime-time programming, particularly on broadcast networks subject to F.C.C. scrutiny. The data is used for a family viewing guide on the council's Web site; shows are labeled red, yellow or green based on language, violence, depictions of sex and ''adult themes.''
Taking the decency battle to advertisers has become a bigger part of the council's focus since Mr. Winter took over as president in 2007. Each year, the council ranks the 10 best and 10 worst advertisers based on how frequently they sponsor ''family-friendly TV programs'' or ''objectionable content including foul language, violence and sexual themes and images.''
In 2009, General Mills ranked as the best, and the fast-food operator Yum Brands, which owns Taco Bell and KFC, as the worst.
At the moment, the council is focused on advertisers who support ''$#*! My Dad Says.'' After first singling out national sponsors, the council has shifted its attack to the local level, asking its members to record the show and take note of commercials for local businesses. Members are then supposed to e-mail the lists to the council.
''Your help will assure that CBS gets the message,'' read the sign-off to the council's call to action. ''We don't want any of your $#*! in front of our families!''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Monday about the recent troubles of the Parents Television Council gave outdated information about the income of L. Brent Bozell III, the conservative activist who founded the council in 1995. He is paid by the Media Research Center, another nonprofit group he founded, but is no longer paid by the Parents Television Council. (Last year, the most recent year for which the organizations made payment information public, Mr. Bozell was paid $24,500 by the council and $218,319 by the center.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top left, clockwise: Miley Cyrus's video to ''Who Owns My Heart''
William Shatner in CBS's ''$#*! My Dad Says''
the cast of ''Glee'' in GQ
and Cee Lo Green. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM TOP, CLOCKWISE: YOUTUBE
SONJA FLEMMING/CBS
TERRY RICHARDSON/GQ, VIA REUTERS
AND CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Lea Michele and Cory Monteith in ''Glee,'' who appear, among others, in racy poses in GQ. The Parents Television Council, led by Timothy Winter, right, noted that the show was about high school and said the display ''borders on pedophilia.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARIN BAER/FOX
 STEPHEN SHUGERMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); ANIMATION (74%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); MUSIC (72%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (55%)

PERSON: CEE LO GREEN (90%); MILEY CYRUS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



712 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2010

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: When Hormone Creams Expose Others to Risks

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: Women are not taking proper precautions when using topical hormone products - putting not only pets but also family members at risk for hormone exposure. 

 BODY:
Veterinarians around the country are reporting a strange phenomenon: spayed dogs and cats, even some puppies and kittens, are suddenly becoming hormonal.
In female pets, the symptoms resemble heat: swollen genitals, bloody discharge and behavioral problems. Male animals are showing up with swollen breast tissue and hair loss. Standard treatments and even repeated operations have had no effect.
Now vets have identified the culprit. The pets were all owned by women who used hormone creams on their hands, arms and legs to counter symptoms of menopause. Animals who licked or cuddled their owners, or rubbed up against their legs, were being inadvertently exposed to doses of hormone drugs.
These anecdotal reports, about 20 of which were first collected by the Veterinary Information Network, a news service for veterinarians, suggest that many women are not taking proper precautions when using topical hormone products - putting not only pets but also family members at risk for hormone exposure.
"The dogs are licking and rubbing the treated area and absorbing the drug, which is putting them back into heat," said Dr. Terry Clekis, a veterinarian in Bradenton, Fla. Dr. Clekis has seen about five cases of pet exposure to menopause creams, including a dog that appeared to go into heat about six months after being spayed.
Dr. Clekis feared he had left remnants of ovarian tissue behind after the spaying. So he repeated it, but found nothing. It was his wife, chatting with the pet owner, who discovered she was using a hormone cream. Once the owner took precautions against exposing her pet, the symptoms disappeared.
The Food and Drug Administration issued a warning in the summer after eight children exposed to the estrogen spray Evamist showed signs of premature puberty like nipple swelling and enlarged breasts. The agency also received two reports of dogs exposed to Evamist, and last year it issued another warning after eight children were exposed to topical testosterone.
Use of topical estrogen, in the form of creams, sprays and gels, has surged since a major government study linked oral menopause drugs with a higher risk of heart attacks and cancer.
Last year, doctors wrote 440,000 prescriptions for brand-name topical estrogen products alone, nearly triple the 2006 figure, according to IMS Health, a drug information service. And those numbers do not capture the estimated one million women using compounded hormone creams, which are custom-mixed by pharmacists and have been widely promoted as an alternative to commercial menopause drugs - even though the F.D.A. has said these so-called bio-identical hormones are no safer than hormones from drug companies. (The compounds' popularity surged after the former sitcom star Suzanne Somers wrote two books claiming they delivered many health benefits.)
Dr. Cynthia A. Stuenkel, an endocrinologist at the University of California, San Diego, and a former president of the North American Menopause Society, said the society was surveying its members to collect case reports of inadvertent hormone exposure to pets or children. The problem, she added, is that the doctors who prescribe the drugs typically treat older women, but the doctors who see the problems are pediatricians and veterinarians.
"We need to connect the dots between these groups so pediatricians and vets think of it early before subjecting these children and animals to extensive testing," she said. But some vets say women aren't forthcoming about the use of hormone drugs because it simply doesn't occur to them that it might be related to a pet's problem.
Dr. Walter R. Threlfall, a veterinarian who specializes in reproductive health, had a case involving a small lap dog that was experiencing a regular bloody discharge. During three different visits he asked the owner if the dog could have been exposed to an estrogen product, and she answered no each time before finally acknowledging she had been using an estrogen cream on her arm.
"The dog licks it off every night," she told Dr. Threlfall, who said in an interview, "She spent lots of money on that dog, and I could have solved it the first time by telling her to get the dog off the estrogen cream."
Dr. Richard Fried, owner of the Lincoln Square Veterinary Hospital in Manhattan, said he recently saw two cats that seemed to go back into heat after spaying by a different vet. Tests in one cat showed high blood levels of estrogen, but before he could spay it again, the cats' breeder suggested that the culprit might be the owner's hormone treatment.
"We are always warning pet owners to be careful about their medications," Dr. Fried said. "But this is a much more insidious kind of problem that most people don't think about."
Dr. Stuenkel says women should be counseled about safe use of the drugs.
After using a topical hormone cream, they should thoroughly wash their hands before handling food, children or pets. Products should dry completely before the user comes into contact with people or animals, and women may want to consider changing the area where they apply the cream or covering it with long sleeves or slacks.
"We've learned a lot from these puppy stories," Dr. Stuenkel said. "People are letting dogs lick their hands after using the cream or holding them when the cream is fresh on them. We need to teach women to be sensible about how they use these products."

        
For Some in Menopause, Hormones May Be Only Option
        
Lessons From the Hormone Studies
        
A Second Look at Estrogen's Benefits
        
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some
        
The Mental Chaos of Menopause

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MENOPAUSE (92%); DOGS (92%); CATS (91%); VETERINARY SERVICES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); PETS (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (89%); FAMILY (88%); VETERINARY DRUGS (78%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (78%); BREAST CANCER (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); PHARMACISTS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HAIR LOSS (57%) Estrogen; Hormones; Menopause; Pets; Well; Cats; Dogs; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health; Testosterone; Veterinary Medicine; Women and Girls; Well Pets

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011



713 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: A Labor Issue Ensnares 'The Hobbit'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY; Colin Peacock contributed reporting from Wellington, New Zealand.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Is Wellywood burning?
New Zealand's feisty film workers have taken to the streets this week to try to keep Peter Jackson's production of ''The Hobbit'' in their country, nudging the prime minister, John Key, toward a Tuesday summit meeting with a visiting contingent of Warner Brothers executives.
Filming had been threatened by a dispute over whether a New Zealand branch of an Australian union could engage in collective bargaining on the Hollywood films, which they have not been able to do in the past.
As of Tuesday afternoon in Wellington -- the New Zealand capital and the center of a growing movie industry sometimes called Wellywood -- the matter was unsettled. But it was clear that Mr. Jackson's furry little film creatures were not going anywhere without a fight. 
At least a half-dozen executives from Warner and its New Line Cinema unit, led by Kevin Tsujihara, a member of Warner's office of the president, arrived in New Zealand early Tuesday for late-day meetings with Mr. Key and other government officials. The Warner team is expected to decide within the week whether the films stay in New Zealand or move elsewhere.
A quick decision is needed if the first movie is to be on screens in December 2012.
For Warner and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the studios behind the films, the extraordinary public wrangling over location is only the latest in a series of setbacks that have kept the studios from shooting two back-to-back movies based on the J. R. R. Tolkien book. The films are seen as an extension of Mr. Jackson's lucrative ''Lord of the Rings'' series, which had roughly $3 billion in ticket sales around the world.
For many in New Zealand, however, the fight to retain the latest productions by Mr. Jackson, who is widely credited with revamping the country's film industry, involves economic survival. Roughly $500 million in spending hangs in the balance.
National pride, too, is involved. Although the underlying dispute was with New Zealand Actors Equity, that union is backed by a larger union, the Media, Entertainment & Arts Alliance, from New Zealand's neighbor, Australia.
In a statement read at ''Keep 'The Hobbit' in New Zealand'' rallies around the country on Monday, Mr. Jackson made much of the Australian hand in igniting a fight that erupted when New Zealand's Actors Equity union demanded that makers of the Hobbit films bargain collectively with actors. The producers and some New Zealand officials said such bargaining would violate the country's laws, which treat group negotiations with contractors as a form of price-fixing.
''Turning us into another state of Australia under the sway of a destructive organization carries the very real risk of destroying the great big heart that beats inside our films,'' Mr. Jackson said.
Earlier, the Australian union had organized a boycott of ''The Hobbit'' films by international actors' unions, including the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. But those groups signaled last week that members were free to work on the movies, after the actors equity union and its Australian backers lifted their call for the boycott.
Even without the boycott, a central question remains: Did the New Zealand actors' union condition the lifting of its ban on an agreement by producers in the country to hold labor talks in the next six months?
The Hobbit films are expected to begin shooting in February, so any uncertainty about future labor talks could once again put the outsize productions in jeopardy -- a concern that has led New Line, which is supervising the production, to begin making contingency plans for a shoot in Ireland or elsewhere.
The lifting of the ban was ''unconditional,'' Simon Whipp, an officer of the Australian union, the Alliance, said in a telephone interview. He said that the Actors Equity union had made it clear to Warner that there was no connection between anticipated talks with New Zealand producers and films, and that the Hobbit productions would be allowed to finish without union interference.
Mr. Whipp said his repeated offers to talk with Warner executives and those producing the films had been ignored. ''I would have thought, as a simpleton, that if you have a problem, talking would be one way to solve it.''
The original union call for a boycott was helped by one of New Zealand's previously best-loved actresses, Robyn Malcolm, star of the local television hit ''Outrageous Fortune'' (remade for ABC as ''Scoundrels'').
Ms. Malcolm had argued that the actors were simply seeking to sit down with producers and discuss working conditions. New Zealand's actors are largely not unionized and have traditionally been employed as sole contractors.
The producer of ''Outrageous Fortune,'' John Barnett, was quoted in this weekend's papers as saying Ms. Malcolm could have trouble finding work in New Zealand if ''The Hobbit'' goes offshore.
Warner executives, who routinely deal with actors under union contracts on their many films, have been frustrated at getting caught in a squeeze between New Zealand actors unhappy with practices in their country and their own need to get the production in motion.
In a good-faith gesture, the studio weeks ago earmarked funds for a pool that would give even actors with small roles a participation in income from the films, similar to union-mandated residuals payments on productions in the United States.
''The Hobbit'' films were already delayed for months while Warner struggled to reach financial terms with MGM, which has been going through a restructuring of some $4 billion in debt, and lost its intended director, Guillermo del Toro, who tired of waiting. Mr. Jackson, who has been a producer and writer of the planned films, stepped in as director, on the condition that they begin shooting soon.
Last week, New Zealand's finance minister, Bill English, who is also the deputy prime minister, said it was possible the makers of the Hobbit films might try to extract more money from the New Zealand government. Mr. English said he expected the issue of further tax breaks to come up in the meeting with Warner.
''No doubt if they've got something to say, they'll say it,'' Mr. English said. ''The rough estimates of taxpayer support for this film are around 50 million to 60 million New Zealand dollars -- maybe more if they spend more, so it's pretty generous.'' That translates to $38 million to $45 million.
Like Mr. Jackson, many film crew workers in New Zealand have been inclined to see the presence of Australia's media alliance as undue meddling from a neighboring country whose own film industry has been in decline for years, mostly because a strong Australian dollar made production there less attractive than in other places.
''Why are you targeting 'The Hobbit' '' and ''this isn't Australia'' were among the lines tossed repeatedly at Mr. Whipp as he was trailed by a camera-wielding questioner outside a restaurant in Wellington last week.
Mr. Whipp said the Actors Equity union had about 650 members. The Australian alliance, he said, was invited in 2004 to become associated with it by New Zealand's Council of Trade Unions, after its membership dwindled to about 100 as a change in New Zealand labor laws 20 years ago made it virtually impossible for freelance workers to bargain collectively.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A supporter of filming ''The Hobbit'' in New Zealand protested in Wellington on Monday. A union dispute could mean the filming will move elsewhere. (B1)
A protest in New Zealand. Warner Brothers executives and John Key, New Zealand's prime minister, were to meet Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTY MELVILLE/GETTY IMAGES)
 Peter Jackson, who revamped New Zealand's film industry, is to direct ''The Hobbit.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON MERRITT/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); TICKET SALES (50%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (91%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (56%); MEDIA ENTERTAINMENT (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%)

PERSON: JOHN KEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NEW ZEALAND (96%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



714 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: 48th Is Not a Good Place

 BODY:
The National Academies, the country's leading advisory group on science and technology, warned in 2005 that unless the United States improved the quality of math and science education, at all levels, it would continue to lose economic ground to foreign competitors. 
The situation remains grim. According to a follow-up report published last month, the academies found that the United States ranks 27th out of 29 wealthy countries in the proportion of college students with degrees in science or engineering, while the World Economic Forum ranked this country 48th out of 133 developed and developing nations in quality of math and science instruction.
More than half the patents awarded here last year were given to companies from outside the United States. In American graduate schools, nearly half of students studying the sciences are foreigners; while these students might once have spent their careers here, many are now opting to return home.
In a 2009 survey, nearly a third of this country's manufacturing companies reported having trouble finding enough skilled workers.
The academies call on federal and state governments to improve early childhood education, strengthen the public school math and science curriculum, and improve teacher training in these crucial subjects. It calls on government and colleges to provide more financial and campus support to students who excel at science.
The report sets a goal of increasing the percentage of people with undergraduate degrees in science from 6 percent to 10 percent. It calls for the country to quickly double the number of minority students who hold science degrees -- to 160,000 from about 80,000.
Too often, science curriculums are grinding and unimaginative, which may help explain why more than half of all college science majors quit the discipline before they earn their degrees. The science establishment has long viewed a high abandonment rate as part of a natural winnowing.
The University of Maryland, Baltimore County -- one of the leading producers of African-American research scientists in the country -- rejects that view. It has shown that science and engineering students thrive when they are given mentors and early exposure to exciting, cutting-edge laboratory science. Other colleges are now trying to emulate the program.
Congress has an important role to play. It can start by embracing the academies' call to attract as many as 10,000 qualified math and science teachers annually to the profession. One sound way to do that -- while also increasing the number of minority scientists -- is to expand funding for programs that support high-caliber math and science students in college in return for their commitment to teach in needy districts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRICULA (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); PATENTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



715 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The Corrosion of America

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
If you had a leak in your roof or in the kitchen or basement, you'd probably think it a good idea to have it taken care of before matters got worse, and more expensive.
If only we had the same attitude when it comes to the vast and intricately linked water systems in the United States. Most of us take clean and readily available water for granted. But the truth is that the nation's water systems are in sorry shape -- deteriorating even as the population grows and demand increases.
Aging and corroded pipes are bursting somewhere every couple of minutes. Dilapidated sewer systems are contaminating waterways and drinking water. Many local systems are so old and inadequate -- in some cases, so utterly rotten -- that they are overwhelmed by heavy rain. 
As Charles Duhigg reported in The Times last March: ''For decades, these systems -- some built around the time of the Civil War -- have been ignored by politicians and residents accustomed to paying almost nothing for water delivery and sewage removal. And so each year, hundreds of thousands of ruptures damage streets and homes and cause dangerous pollutants to seep into drinking water supplies.''
There is, of course, no reason for this to be the case. If this were a first-class society we would rebuild our water systems to the point where they would be the envy of the world, and that would bolster the economy in the bargain. But that would take maturity and vision and effort and sacrifice, all of which are in dismayingly short supply right now.
We can't even build a railroad tunnel beneath the Hudson River from New Jersey to New York.
Improving water systems -- and infrastructure generally, if properly done -- would go a long way toward improving the nation's dismal economic outlook. According to the U.S. Conference of Mayors, every dollar invested in water and sewer improvements has the potential to increase the long-term gross domestic product by more than six dollars. Hundreds of thousands of jobs would be created if the nation were serious about repairing and upgrading water mains, crumbling pipes, water treatment plants, dams, levees and so on.
Millions of jobs would be created if we could bring ourselves to stop fighting mindless wars and use some of those squandered billions to bring the nation's infrastructure in the broadest sense up to 21st-century standards.
The need is tremendous. The nation's network of water systems was right at the bottom of the latest infrastructure grades handed out by the American Society of Civil Engineers, receiving a D-minus. Jeffrey Griffiths, a member of the federal government's National Drinking Water Advisory Council, told The Times: ''We're relying on water systems built by our great-grandparents, and no one wants to pay for the decades we've spent ignoring them. There's a lot of evidence that people are getting sick. But because everything is out of sight, no one really understands how bad things have become.''
What has always struck me about this issue is that there is a desperate need to improve the nation's infrastructure and a desperate need for the jobs and enhanced economic activity that would come from sustained, long-term infrastructure investment. But somehow the leadership and the will to move forward on the scale that is needed are missing.
A survey to be released this week by the ITT Corporation, which makes and sells water infrastructure equipment, shows that nearly 70 percent of respondents agreed with the statement ''I generally take my access to clean water for granted.'' But a similar percentage said they would be willing to pay a modest additional amount every month to upgrade their water system and ensure their long-term access to clean water.
If public officials would provide honest leadership on this and other infrastructure issues, making a sound case for the investments that are needed and the benefits that would accrue from rebuilding America's infrastructure, the public would be likely to sign on.
We can start getting our act together now, or we can pay dearly later. The Obama administration has provided federal support for some water and other infrastructure improvements but nothing close to the kind of effort needed to bring America's infrastructure into even reasonable shape.
The horror stories abound: the drowning of New Orleans when the levees failed in 2005, the 2007 explosion of an ancient steam pipe in Manhattan that killed one person and injured more than 30, the gas pipeline explosion and fire last month in San Bruno, Calif., that killed seven and injured more than 50. There are endless other examples, tragic, costly and unnecessary.
The sorry state of America's infrastructure is a hard-core reflection of what is really going on in this increasingly hapless society, whether we choose to acknowledge it or not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); RIVERS (89%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (74%); CIVIL WAR (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); WEATHER (68%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); MAYORS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



716 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Navajos Hope to Shift From Coal to Wind and Sun

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
BLUE GAP, Ariz. -- For decades, coal has been an economic lifeline for the Navajos, even as mining and power plant emissions dulled the blue skies and sullied the waters of their sprawling reservation.
But today there are stirrings of rebellion. Seeking to reverse years of environmental degradation and return to their traditional values, many Navajos are calling for a future built instead on solar farms, ecotourism and microbusinesses.
''At some point we have to wean ourselves,'' Earl Tulley, a Navajo housing official, said of coal as he sat on the dirt floor of his family's hogan, a traditional circular dwelling.
Mr. Tulley, who is running for vice president of the Navajo Nation in the Nov. 2 election, represents a growing movement among Navajos that embraces environmental healing and greater reliance on the sun and wind, abundant resources on a 17 million-acre reservation spanning Arizona, New Mexico and Utah. 
''We need to look at the bigger picture of sustainable development,'' said Mr. Tulley, the first environmentalist to run on a Navajo presidential ticket.
With nearly 300,000 members, the Navajo Nation is the country's largest tribe, according to Census Bureau estimates, and it has the biggest reservation. Coal mines and coal-fired power plants on the reservation and on lands shared with the Hopi provide about 1,500 jobs and more than a third of the tribe's annual operating budget, the largest source of revenue after government grants and taxes.
At the grass-roots level, the internal movement advocating a retreat from coal is both a reaction to the environmental damage and the health consequences of mining -- water loss and contamination, smog and soot pollution -- and a reconsideration of centuries-old tenets.
In Navajo culture, some spiritual guides say, digging up the earth to retrieve resources like coal and uranium (which the reservation also produced until health issues led to a ban in 2005) is tantamount to cutting skin and represents a betrayal of a duty to protect the land.
''As medicine people, we don't extract resources,'' said Anthony Lee Sr., president of the Dine Hataalii Association, a group of about 100 healers known as medicine men and women.
But the shift is also prompted by economic realities. Tribal leaders say the Navajo Nation's income from coal has dwindled 15 percent to 20 percent in recent years as federal and state pollution regulations have imposed costly restrictions and lessened the demand for mining.
Two coal mines on the reservation have shut down in the last five years. One of them, the Black Mesa mine, ceased operations because the owners of the power plant it fed in Laughlin, Nev., chose to close the plant in 2005 rather than spend $1.2 billion on retrofitting it to meet pollution controls required by the Environmental Protection Agency.
Early this month, the E.P.A. signaled that it would require an Arizona utility to install $717 million in emission controls at another site on the reservation, the Four Corners Power Plant in New Mexico, describing it as the highest emitter of nitrous oxide of any power plant in the nation. It is also weighing costly new rules for the Navajo Generating Station in Arizona.
And states that rely on Navajo coal, like California, are increasingly imposing greenhouse gas emissions standards and requiring renewable energy purchases, banning or restricting the use of coal for electricity.
So even as they seek higher royalties and new markets for their vast coal reserves, tribal officials say they are working to draft the tribe's first comprehensive energy policy and are gradually turning to casinos, renewable energy projects and other sources for income.
This year the tribal government approved a wind farm to be built west of Flagstaff, Ariz., to power up to 20,000 homes in the region. Last year, the tribal legislative council also created a Navajo Green Economy Commission to promote environmentally friendly jobs and businesses.
''We need to create our own businesses and control our destiny,'' said Ben Shelly, the Navajo Nation vice president, who is now running for president against Lynda Lovejoy, a state senator in New Mexico and Mr. Tulley's running mate.
That message is gaining traction among Navajos who have reaped few benefits from coal or who feel that their health has suffered because of it.
Curtis Yazzie, 43, for example, lives in northeastern Arizona without running water or electricity in a log cabin just a stone's throw from the Kayenta mine.
Tribal officials, who say some families live so remotely that it would cost too much to run power lines to their homes, have begun bringing hybrid solar and wind power to some of the estimated 18,000 homes on the reservation without electricity. But Mr. Yazzie says that air and water pollution, not electricity, are his first concerns.
''Quite a few of my relatives have made a good living working for the coal mine, but a lot of them are beginning to have health problems,'' he said. ''I don't know how it's going to affect me.''
One of those relatives is Daniel Benally, 73, who says he lives with shortness of breath after working for the Black Mesa mine in the same area for 35 years as a heavy equipment operator. Coal provided for his family, including 15 children from two marriages, but he said he now believed that the job was not worth the health and environmental problems.
''There's no equity between benefit and damage,'' he said in Navajo through a translator.
About 600 mine, pipeline and power plant jobs were affected when the Mohave Generating Station in Nevada and Peabody's Black Mesa mine shut down.
But that also meant that Peabody stopped drawing water from the local aquifer for the coal slurry carried by an underground pipeline to the power plant -- a victory for Navajo and national environmental groups active in the area, like the Sierra Club.
Studies have shown serious declines in the water levels of the Navajo aquifer after decades of massive pumping for coal slurry operations. And the E.P.A. has singled out the Four Corners Power Plant and the Navajo Generating Station as two of the largest air polluters in the country, affecting visibility in 27 of the area's ''most pristine and precious natural areas,'' including the Grand Canyon.
The regional E.P.A. director, Jared Blumenfeld, said the plants were the nation's No. 1 and No. 4 emitters of nitrogen oxides, which form fine particulates resulting in cases of asthma attacks, bronchitis, heart attacks and premature deaths.
Environmentalists are now advocating for a more diversified Navajo economy and trying to push power plants to invest in wind and solar projects.
''It's a new day for the Navajo people,'' said Lori Goodman, an official with Dine Citizens Against Ruining Our Environment, a group founded 22 years ago by Mr. Tulley. ''We can't be trashing the land anymore.''
Both presidential candidates in the Navajo election have made the pursuit of cleaner energy a campaign theme, but significant hurdles remain, including that Indian tribes, as sovereign entities, are not eligible for tax credits that help finance renewable energy projects elsewhere.
And replacing coal revenue would not be easy. The mining jobs that remain, which pay union wages, are still precious on a reservation where unemployment is estimated at 50 percent to 60 percent.
''Mining on Black Mesa,'' Peabody officials said in a statement, ''has generated $12 billion in direct and implied economic benefits over the past 40 years, created thousands of jobs, sent thousands of students to college and restored lands to a condition that is as much as 20 times more productive than native range.''
They added, ''Renewables won't come close to matching the scale of these benefits.''
But many Navajos see the waning of coal as inevitable and are already looking ahead. Some residents and communities are joining together or pairing with outside companies to pursue small-scale renewable energy projects on their own.
Wahleah Johns, a member of the new Navajo Green Economy Commission, is studying the feasibility of a small solar project on reclaimed mining lands with two associates. In the meantime, she uses solar panels as a consciousness-raising tool.
''How can we utilize reclamation lands?'' she said to Mr. Yazzie during a recent visit as they held their young daughters in his living room. ''Maybe we can use them for solar panels to generate electricity for Los Angeles, to transform something that's been devastating for our land and water into something that can generate revenue for your family, for your kids.''
Mr. Yazzie, who lives with his wife, three children and two brothers, said he liked the idea. ''Once Peabody takes all the coal out, it'll be gone,'' he said. ''Solar would be long-term. Solar and wind, we don't have a problem with. It's pretty windy out here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of Earl Tulley and Lynda Lovejoy at a campaign rally last month in Blue Gap, Ariz. (A12)
 Lynda Lovejoy, a candidate for president of the Navajo Nation, and her running mate, Earl Tulley, the first environmentalist on a Navajo presidential ticket.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) MAP: The Four Corners Power Plant and the Navajo Generating Station are two of the largest air polluters in the United States. (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); COAL MINING (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (89%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SMOG (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND DEGRADATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ECOTOURISM (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); CENSUS (53%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



717 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Pepsi Franchise To an Ice-Cold Romania

 BODY:
I'VE been a frequent business traveler for more than 20 years. I now live in Tel Aviv, but when I was a young executive, I was based in New York. My trips back then were short, mostly to the Midwest and sometimes to the West Coast.
That changed in late 1990. My job was to explore the feasibility of setting up a Pepsi franchise in Romania. 
My first trip to Romania took place in January 1991, about a year after its revolution. The country was no longer under a communist regime, but no one wanted to travel there. It was also the time of the first Gulf War, and no one really wanted to travel anywhere. I had a tough time getting someone to accompany me to Romania, but I eventually talked a colleague into going with me.
There were no direct flights from New York to Bucharest, so we traveled by way of Vienna. We landed in Romania during a snowstorm. The temperature was 6 degrees below zero. I don't know what I was thinking, but I just had on a lightweight suit and raincoat. I was freezing.
But I was actually warmer outside than I was inside a car. The only vehicles that could transport us around were Romanian-made Dacias, which were like metal boxes that sucked the cold into the interior. At that point, I was literally in pain from the cold, and I kept thinking the whole idea wasn't very good.
Everything in the city was gray. There were no advertising signs, the apartment buildings were poorly built and lighted, and there were a lot of empty storefronts. It was pretty dismal.
Nonetheless, my colleague and I made a trip to Romania every month in 1991, spending a total of 93 nights in the country. We officially opened our business there in 1992.
In total, I've probably made about 150 trips to Romania. And my opinion of the country improved as political, economic and social reforms took shape. It was amazing.
We sold that business a few years ago, but since my affiliation with Pepsi began, I've developed a very peculiar habit when I fly. I check out what brand of soft drink each airline serves. Once I find out the brands carried on board, I also look around to see what people around me are consuming: carbonated versus noncarbonated soft drinks. Or if they prefer regular or a sugar-free drink, or a cola, cherry-flavored drink or something else. It's a completely nonscientific way of identifying consumer preferences and trends, and helps me pass the time on flights.
I've traveled so many places in the last two decades that every time I board a new airline, I become apprehensive. Not because I'm scared of flying, but rather, if they don't serve Pepsi products, I'm out of luck. Airlines either serve Pepsi products or Coke products, rarely both. Those products can include juices and bottled water, not just soda.
In my years of affiliation with Pepsi, I never consumed any of the soft drink brands of the competition. This is how fierce the battle is between the two main players in the industry.
I'll never forget one time when I was in Bulgaria at a very important event. This was back in 1995 and the hosts wanted to treat the guests to something very special. So about every three minutes they kept offering all of us a Coke.
It was almost comical, because I couldn't in good conscience drink it. Eventually they gave up trying to give me one, and I made do with my fallback drink: a glass of slightly warm tap water.
Q. How often do you fly? A. Generally about twice a month, sometimes more, sometimes less. Q. What's your least favorite airport? A. Heathrow. It's too big and takes too long to get from one terminal to another. Q. Of all the places you've been, what's the best? A. Alaska. It's absolutely spectacular, both inland and along the coastline. Q. What's your secret airport vice? A. Shopping at the Vienna International Airport.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aviad Meitar, chairman of Quadrant European Beverages, introduced Pepsi to Romania after the Soviet bloc's collapse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); DESERT STORM (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); AIR SERVICE (69%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (65%); RETAILERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ROMANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



718 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Knicks Add Tequila To Roster Of Sponsors

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The Knicks have signed a marketing agreement with 1800 Silver Tequila, the latest deal between a hard liquor company and an N.B.A. team.
MSG, which owns the Knicks, and Proximo Spirits, which makes 1800, declined to provide financial figures. But the companies said that their multiyear arrangement would include signs at courtside and on the scoreboard during games, as well as a number of promotional activities during the season. 
Madison Square Garden is ''a high energy environment with a very iconic team, which is a great environment to show off our brand,'' said Elwyn Gladstone, the vice president for marketing at Proximo, which signed an agreement with the Los Angeles Lakers last season.
Michael Imperioli, who starred on ''The Sopranos,'' is a pitchman for 1800, which battles with Patron in the premium tequila market. Imperioli is sometimes seen courtside at Knicks games.
Last year, Sobieski, a vodka company, signed a marketing agreement with the Knicks and Rangers. MSG, which owns the teams, has a separate deal with Rums of Puerto Rico at Madison Square Garden. Greg Elliott, senior vice president for marketing partnerships at MSG Sports, said that he expected other deals with liquor companies to follow.
''Many categories rise and fall, but the spirits category is a new area for us to reach out to,'' he said. ''There's room for growth.''
The deal with 1800 comes weeks after the Nets announced a five-year agreement with Stolichnaya, the Russian vodka producer, worth about $2 million a year. The deal will include sponsored bars at Barclays Center, the Nets arena being built in Brooklyn.
In March 2009, the N.B.A. lifted its ban on advertising by hard liquor companies in locations visible to television cameras, which includes courtside signs (before 2009, liquor companies were able to sponsor clubs and suites in arenas that were out of view of cameras). Last season, 26 teams signed new or extended agreements with makers of vodka, rum, tequila and other spirits. Of those teams, 13 have two or more agreements with companies including Absolut, Bacardi, Captain Morgan and Jack Daniel's.
The N.B.A.'s decision to reach for new marketing dollars followed similar moves by Major League Baseball, the N.H.L. and Nascar, and came in the midst of the recession, when automakers, banks and other companies were trimming their marketing budgets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); DISTILLERIES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BASEBALL (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%)

COMPANY: RUMS OF PUERTO RICO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (55%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



719 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: China Telecom Giant Makes Bold Push for the U.S. Market

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and DAVID BARBOZA; John Markoff reported from Santa Clara, Calif., and David Barboza from Shanghai. Bao Beibei contributed research from Shanghai.

 BODY:
SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- This spring, an executive from a Chinese telecommunications equipment company made an intriguing job offer to a Silicon Valley software engineer. The Chinese company, Huawei Technologies, wanted to get into the booming market for Internet-based computing, and it had just moved its United States research headquarters here to capture some of the best local talent.
''How many engineers would you like for your team? Several hundred? That's not a problem,'' the recruiter said, according to the engineer.
When the software manager turned down the offer, the Chinese executive was undeterred and asked for the name of the engineer working under him. 
The exchange underscores Huawei's bold entrance onto the world's technology stage. In the span of a decade, it has gone from imitating others' products to taking on international rivals with its own innovative computing and communications gear. But Huawei has largely been locked out of the United States -- until now.
Sprint Nextel, the nation's third-largest wireless carrier, is preparing to make a decision on buying $3 billion in advanced wireless equipment, and Huawei is considered to be a front-runner for the deal.
Huawei is one of many Chinese companies that are pushing into more sophisticated and lucrative businesses. But security concerns make telecommunications a particularly delicate industry in this country, and even the hint of a Huawei deal with Sprint has generated worries in Washington.
Some in Congress and the national security establishment fear that Huawei's close ties to the Chinese military might allow China to tamper with American communications gear.
Last week, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and three other members of Congress wrote a letter to Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, raising the specter that an equipment sale might permit the Chinese government to manipulate parts of the communications network, making it possible to disrupt or intercept phone calls and Internet messages.
Anticipating these hurdles, Huawei has hired a remarkable array of Washington lobbyists, lawyers, consultants and public relations firms to help it win business in the United States. It has also helped create Amerilink Telecom, an American distributor of Huawei products whose high-powered board includes former Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the former World Bank president James D. Wolfensohn and the one-time chief executive of Nortel Networks, William A. Owens.
Amerilink executives say they are primarily interested in helping Huawei overcome objections that its entry into the American market could jeopardize national security.
''We take the accusations very seriously,'' said Kevin Packingham, who recently left Sprint to become chief executive of Amerilink. ''But regardless of the accusations, we have a model in place that ensures the security'' of the network should Huawei win American contracts, he said.
The effort is beginning to pay off. This fall, the American Internet communications firm Clearwire will begin testing a system based on Huawei's 4G, or fourth-generation, network technology.
The Sprint contract would be Huawei's largest American deal by far. A Sprint spokesman, Scott Sloat, declined to discuss any potential deal. Sprint bought its last round of network equipment from Motorola, Nortel Networks and Lucent, now part of Alcatel-Lucent.
Huawei's American drive is significant because it is China's first truly home-grown multinational corporation. And some analysts say they believe its spectacular rise will serve as a model for other Chinese companies seeking to compete internationally.
Huawei is now the world's second-largest telecom equipment supplier behind Ericsson of Sweden, and with Chinese government backing, it has sewn up major deals in Asia, Africa and Latin America. In Europe, Huawei has outmaneuvered Ericsson to supply equipment to big carriers.
Despite those successes, Huawei has struggled to break into the United States market, largely because of the security concerns and accusations of intellectual property theft and corporate espionage.
The company has repeatedly been linked to the People's Liberation Army of China. And over the last decade, Huawei has been sued in the United States by two of its major competitors, Cisco Systems and Motorola, over accusations that it stole software designs and infringed on patents.
Cisco settled its suit with Huawei soon after filing it. But in court documents filed in a lawsuit last summer, Motorola claimed that a group of Chinese-born Motorola engineers developed contacts with Huawei's founder and then, between about 2003 and 2007, conspired to steal technology from Motorola by way of a dummy corporation they had set up outside the company.
The national security issue has been bubbling up for some time. In a letter in August, a group of Republican senators wrote to the heads of four federal agencies asking questions about the risks of Huawei's entering a deal with Sprint, whose customers include the United States military and law enforcement agencies.
The senators, who are seeking a stringent government review of Huawei, said they were troubled by the company's history, including evidence it had supplied communications equipment to Iran and Iraq during Saddam Hussein's regime, possibly in violation of United Nations sanctions.
''We are concerned,'' the senators wrote, ''that Huawei's position as a supplier of Sprint Nextel could create substantial risk for U.S. corporations and possibly undermine U.S. national security.''
The reservations about Huawei extend to other countries. In Europe, some competitors are now complaining about so-called subsidies that Huawei receives from the Chinese government. And in India, there are worries that Huawei networks could pose security risks.
Huawei denies it has ties to the Chinese military and disputes accusations of intellectual property theft. Ross Gan, a company spokesman, says that Huawei is employee-owned and that it has grown by developing its own technology.
''We're an innovative company driven by the business needs of customers,'' he said. In a statement, the company added: ''Huawei has never researched, developed, manufactured or sold technologies or products for military purposes in any country.''
Industry analysts say Huawei, based in Shenzhen, has quickly matured into a fierce competitor in one of the most important and hotly contested technology arenas: sophisticated equipment that enhances the delivery of voice and video over the Internet and through wireless devices.
They say Huawei is gaining, in part, because of heavy spending on research and development. Chinese companies are generally weak in R.&D., but Huawei has 17 research centers around the world, including in Dallas, Moscow and Bangalore, India, and most recently in Santa Clara.
Indeed, of the company's 96,000 employees, nearly half are engaged in research and development. In May, Huawei opened a stunning $340 million research center in Shanghai that it says will eventually house 8,000 engineers.
Huawei's rush to become multinational has not been entirely smooth. ''It was a huge challenge for the company,'' said Geoff Arnold, a veteran Silicon Valley software designer who spent several years helping the company develop a cloud computing product.
''The bean counters in Shenzhen didn't have a clue about how to operate outside of China,'' Mr. Arnold said. ''Huawei has great difficulty understanding what is happening outside of China and adapting their business practices.''
Ren Zhengfei, a former soldier who worked for 10 years in China's Army Engineering Corps, founded Huawei as a reseller of telecommunications equipment in 1988.
Mr. Ren, now 66, rarely grants interviews. But according to a biography published in China, he insists on military-style efficiency and a ''wolf spirit'' mentality that encourages the sales force to relentlessly attack competitors.
In 2008, worries about national security and China's weak protection of intellectual property forced Huawei to drop its $2.2 billion joint bid with the American firm Bain Capital to acquire 3Com, the American networking company. Huawei also failed in other bids this year to acquire the wireless network division of Motorola as well as 2Wire, an American maker of broadband Internet software, according to people familiar with those deals.
Those bids collapsed, analysts say, because both Motorola and 2Wire were told that Washington was likely to block any deals.
Analysts note that Chinese companies have been willing to buy telecommunications equipment from American makers like Motorola, apparently setting aside any concerns about American espionage.
Peter J. Williamson, a professor of business at Cambridge University, said that while some continued to be bothered by Huawei's origins, its technological prowess was increasingly hard to ignore.
''The hardest market to crack is the U.S.,'' he said. ''But they've cracked Europe. And if they can work with Vodafone, one of the biggest carriers in the world, they can work with anyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Huawei Technologies display, above, at a conference in June in Singapore. The company, which is trying to expand its reach in the United States, has 17 research centers around the world, including one in Santa Clara, Calif., below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROSLAN RAHMAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGE
 PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (85%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (84%); CHINA TELECOM CORP LTD (58%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (85%); K3ED (SGX) (58%); CHA (NYSE) (58%); 0728 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SINGAPORE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



720 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
AS FRENCH LAW NEARS,
Unions Risk Losing Support
The French strikes and demonstrations over a proposed increase in the retirement age have lasted for weeks and attracted wide sympathy in a society whose work force is less than 10 percent unionized. But the proposal will soon become law, and it will be a crucial moment for most of the players in French politics, not least of all the unions themselves. PAGE A6
TOASTING THE CHILEAN MINERS 
The victory tour for ''los 33,'' the 33 miners trapped deep underground for 69 days, continued with a whirlwind visit to Santiago, Chile's capital city, where they were greeted by cheering crowds and toasted by government officials. PAGE A11
SOUTH KOREA'S AID TO NORTH
Freighters carrying aid shipments of rice and instant noodles are being sent to North Korea, the first food aid the South Korean government has sent to the North since President Lee Myung-bak was elected South Korea's president in early 2008. PAGE A11
National
NAVAJOS HOPE TO SHIFT
From Coal to Wind and Sun
For decades, coal has been an economic lifeline for the Navajos. But seeking to reverse years of environmental degradation and return to their traditional values, many Navajos are calling for a future built instead on solar farms, ecotourism and microbusinesses. PAGE A13
New York
POLICE LEADER DIDN'T REPORT
Help With Club Dues
Raymond W. Kelly, New York's police commissioner, has had some or all of his expenses at the Harvard Club, an exclusive club for Harvard graduates, paid by the New York City Police Foundation. The practice is lawful, but a spokesman said that Mr. Kelly did not report the foundation's payment of the annual dues -- about $1,500 -- as well as other expenses on his financial disclosure forms required by the city's Conflicts of Interest Board. PAGE A19
FEW WOMEN IN INNER CIRCLES
In the race for New York governor, women are suddenly popping up everywhere -- everywhere, that is, except inside the campaigns' inner circles. PAGE A20
Business
BUSINESS JOINS CHARITY,
But Problems Ensue
Some social enterprise organizations adhere to a hybrid model that marries a profit-making business to a nonprofit organization. But this model for nonprofits is proving problematic. PAGE B1
A.I.G. LOSSES HIDDEN
The United States Treasury concealed $40 billion in likely taxpayer losses on the bailout of the American International Group this month, when it abandoned its usual method for valuing investments, according to a report by the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. PAGE B1
Sports
BASKETBALL'S FIRST RULES,
On the Auction Block
The first rules of basketball, as set down by Dr. James Naismith, are 119 years old and survive on two yellowed typewritten pages, creased and a bit frayed. The heirloom was handed by Naismith to his relatives. Now, the piece is safeguarded at Sotheby's, which will auction it in Manhattan on Dec. 10. Sotheby's expects it to sell for at least $2 million. PAGE B12
Arts
A DOCUMENTARY STUDIES
BP's Corporate History
Ginia Bellafante writes that ''The Spill,'' a documentary that is a joint presentation of ''Frontline'' and ProPublica, compellingly details BP's history of violating safety standards, which made lethal personal injuries and horrific accidents practically inevitable. PAGE C1
Science Times
TRYING TO FOLLOW THE TRAIL
Of Lost AIDS Patients
Several years ago, researchers reported very high rates of adherence to H.I.V. treatment in sub-Saharan Africa -- as high as or higher than in the United States. But recently studies have found that 15 to 40 percent of those who start treatment stop receiving care within one to three years, and health workers called ''default tracers'' are charged with tracking them down and getting them to resume treatment. PAGE D1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25
BOB HERBERT PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MINE WORKERS (77%); BASKETBALL (76%); ECOTOURISM (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHILE (92%); FRANCE (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



721 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; VITAL SIGNS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: PATTERNS: A Portrait of America's Costliest Patients

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Some of the sickest patients can run up hospital charges as high as $18,000 a day, with average stays of almost three weeks, according to a new government report on the cost of hospital care. 
The report, from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, used data from a nationwide sampling of patients in 2008 to analyze the two million most expensive stays (5 percent of the total) in short-term nonfederal hospitals.
These patients were much more severely ill than others; the five most common diagnoses were sepsis, or blood poisoning, along with clogged coronary arteries, heart attack, respiratory failure and complications related to a medical device, implant or graft.
Fifty-four percent of the patients were men, the average age was 58, and they were more likely to live in the Western United States.
The charges do not necessarily reflect actual fees paid; charges are significantly discounted for many insured patients, said the author of the report, Bernard S. Friedman, a senior economist with the heath care agency.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); POISONINGS (73%); HEART DISEASE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



722 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: When Hormone Creams Expose Others to Risks

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
Veterinarians around the country are reporting a strange phenomenon: spayed dogs and cats, even some puppies and kittens, are suddenly becoming hormonal.
In female pets, the symptoms resemble heat: swollen genitals, bloody discharge and behavioral problems. Male animals are showing up with swollen breast tissue and hair loss. Standard treatments and even repeated operations have had no effect.
Now vets have identified the culprit. The pets were all owned by women who used hormone creams on their hands, arms and legs to counter symptoms of menopause. Animals who licked or cuddled their owners, or rubbed up against their legs, were being inadvertently exposed to doses of hormone drugs. 
These anecdotal reports, about 20 of which were first collected by the Veterinary Information Network, a news service for veterinarians, suggest that many women are not taking proper precautions when using topical hormone products - putting not only pets but also family members at risk for hormone exposure.
''The dogs are licking and rubbing the treated area and absorbing the drug, which is putting them back into heat,'' said Dr. Terry Clekis, a veterinarian in Bradenton, Fla. Dr. Clekis has seen about five cases of pet exposure to menopause creams, including a dog that appeared to go into heat about six months after being spayed.
Dr. Clekis feared he had left remnants of ovarian tissue behind after the spaying. So he repeated it, but found nothing. It was his wife, chatting with the pet owner, who discovered she was using a hormone cream. Once the owner took precautions against exposing her pet, the symptoms disappeared.
The Food and Drug Administration issued a warning in the summer after eight children exposed to the estrogen spray Evamist showed signs of premature puberty like nipple swelling and enlarged breasts. The agency also received two reports of dogs exposed to Evamist, and last year it issued another warning after eight children were exposed to topical testosterone.
Use of topical estrogen, in the form of creams, sprays and gels, has surged since a major government study linked oral menopause drugs with a higher risk of heart attacks and cancer.
Last year, doctors wrote 440,000 prescriptions for brand-name topical estrogen products alone, nearly triple the 2006 figure, according to IMS Health, a drug information service. And those numbers do not capture the estimated one million women using compounded hormone creams, which are custom-mixed by pharmacists and have been widely promoted as an alternative to commercial menopause drugs - even though the F.D.A. has said these so-called bio-identical hormones are no safer than hormones from drug companies. (The compounds' popularity surged after the former sitcom star Suzanne Somers wrote two books claiming they delivered many health benefits.)
Dr. Cynthia A. Stuenkel, an endocrinologist at the University of California, San Diego, and a former president of the North American Menopause Society, said the society was surveying its members to collect case reports of inadvertent hormone exposure to pets or children. The problem, she added, is that the doctors who prescribe the drugs typically treat older women, but the doctors who see the problems are pediatricians and veterinarians.
''We need to connect the dots between these groups so pediatricians and vets think of it early before subjecting these children and animals to extensive testing,'' she said. But some vets say women aren't forthcoming about the use of hormone drugs because it simply doesn't occur to them that it might be related to a pet's problem.
Dr. Walter R. Threlfall, a veterinarian who specializes in reproductive health, had a case involving a small lap dog that was experiencing a regular bloody discharge. During three different visits he asked the owner if the dog could have been exposed to an estrogen product, and she answered no each time before finally acknowledging she had been using an estrogen cream on her arm.
''The dog licks it off every night,'' she told Dr. Threlfall, who said in an interview, ''She spent lots of money on that dog, and I could have solved it the first time by telling her to get the dog off the estrogen cream.''
Dr. Richard Fried, owner of the Lincoln Square Veterinary Hospital in Manhattan, said he recently saw two cats that seemed to go back into heat after spaying by a different vet. Tests in one cat showed high blood levels of estrogen, but before he could spay it again, the cats' breeder suggested that the culprit might be the owner's hormone treatment.
''We are always warning pet owners to be careful about their medications,'' Dr. Fried said. ''But this is a much more insidious kind of problem that most people don't think about.''
Dr. Stuenkel says women should be counseled about safe use of the drugs.
After using a topical hormone cream, they should thoroughly wash their hands before handling food, children or pets. Products should dry completely before the user comes into contact with people or animals, and women may want to consider changing the area where they apply the cream or covering it with long sleeves or slacks.
''We've learned a lot from these puppy stories,'' Dr. Stuenkel said. ''People are letting dogs lick their hands after using the cream or holding them when the cream is fresh on them. We need to teach women to be sensible about how they use these products.''
A version of this article appeared in print on Oct. 26, 2010, on page D5 of the New York edition of The Times.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART BRADFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (91%); MENOPAUSE (91%); DOGS (91%); VETERINARY SERVICES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); PETS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (78%); BREAST CANCER (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); PHARMACISTS (74%); FAMILY (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HAIR LOSS (57%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



723 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats Fight To Survive in Arizona

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Marisa Gerber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
TUCSON -- When it comes to endangered species in Arizona, there are the bonytail chub, the Sonoran pronghorn and, perhaps soon, the Congressional Democrat.
Of the state's eight House members, five are Democrats. That may change next Tuesday, with four of the five in varying degrees of trouble. Democrats, Republicans and independents are about evenly split in Arizona, but Republicans could soon have a virtual lock on the upper reaches of power in the state.
''It's high anxiety for Democrats everywhere, but it's especially so in Arizona,'' said Barry Dill, a Democratic strategist in Phoenix who is still hopeful that the party's incumbents can rebound in the final days before Election Day. 
Representative Ed Pastor, who represents western Phoenix, is considered safe. And in the race for the open seat in the Third Congressional District, Jon Hulburd has been locked in a close contest against Ben Quayle, son of former Vice President Dan Quayle. But elsewhere in Arizona, Democrats are on the defensive, even incumbents who were thought to dominate their districts, like Representative Raul M. Grijalva in the Democratic-leaning Seventh District.
In Congress since 2003, and before that a county supervisor and a school board member, Mr. Grijalva enjoyed relative cakewalks in his previous elections. But not this time.
In a humbling reversal, Mr. Grijalva, 62, is fighting for his political life against a virtual unknown, Ruth McClung, an Idaho native who moved to Arizona in 2000 to go to college. Ms. McClung, 28, has the support of Tea Party activists and is receiving major support from outsiders like Sarah Palin and Americans for Tax Reform.
The tables have clearly turned. It is usually the challengers who struggle to persuade entrenched incumbents to debate them. This time around, with incumbency a dirty word, some challengers are playing hard to get.
Ms. McClung debated Mr. Grijalva once but then backed out of a second debate last week, citing a scheduling conflict. The Grijalva campaign is accusing her of dodging a face-to-face discussion of her conservative views.
A few days before, Mr. Grijalva learned that Ms. McClung was going to a candidate forum sponsored by the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, so he rejiggered his schedule to make sure he was there as well. ''If she's there, I'm there,'' he told aides.
And there she was, standing in a park with other candidates from the Tucson area, most of them Democrats. On the sidelines, Ms. McClung did engage in some debate with Grijalva supporters, who challenged her support for school vouchers and Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigration.
''You need more education,'' Isabel Garcia, a local activist, said to Ms. McClung, pointing her finger at the candidate. ''You need knowledge to have strong opinions.''
Ms. McClung brushed off the harsh words. ''You just smile and listen,'' she said later.
There has been little smiling, however, in the battle that Ms. McClung is waging on the airwaves. She knocks Mr. Grijalva for supporting the economic boycott of Arizona that was put in place after the state passed its tough anti-immigration law. Mr. Grijalva subsequently backtracked on the boycott.
But in a district where the unemployment rate is among the nation's highest and with many families facing foreclosure on their homes, the idea that a congressman would support sticking it to his own state has won Ms. McClung support. That it has angered some in Mr. Grijalva's district is clear: a bullet was fired into one of his offices, and last week a package arrived scrawled with swastikas and containing a suspicious substance, later determined to be harmless.
Across Arizona, other Democratic members of Congress are similarly vulnerable.
Considered even more in danger than Mr. Grijalva are Representative Ann Kirkpatrick, who represents the sprawling First District in northern Arizona; Representative Harry E. Mitchell, a second-term congressman who represents parts of Phoenix and communities to the northeast; and Gabrielle Giffords, whose Republican-leaning Eighth Congressional District covers southeastern Arizona.
Ms. Kirkpatrick, 60, who is in her first term representing a centrist district, and Ms. Giffords, 40, in her second term, are both in tight races against political newcomers who are trying to link them to President Obama.
Facing Ms. Kirkpatrick is Paul Gosar, 51, a dentist who sold his practice to run for office; Ms. Giffords is opposed by Jesse Kelly, 28, a former Marine who works at his family's construction business.
Ms. Kirkpatrick promotes her advocacy of a pay cut for members of Congress in these tough economic times as evidence of her independence from her party's leadership. She has been sending 5 percent of her salary to the Bureau of Public Debt, which has done little to quell attacks from Mr. Gosar that her votes have been fiscally irresponsible. He has avoided debating her as well.
Ms. Giffords, a conservative Democrat who does not toe her party's line, spoke at a recent candidate forum about how party labels mean little to her. In a debate on Oct. 18 at the University of Arizona, she linked herself to the state's two Republican senators, Jon Kyl and John McCain.
But Mr. Kelly, at the debate, said Ms. Giffords had shown herself to be more allied with Speaker Nancy Pelosi. ''Are you happy with Congress right now?'' he asked. ''If you're happy with Congress, if you're happy with Obamacare, with bailing out Wall Street, if you're happy with high taxes, continue to vote for Representative Giffords.''
In the Fifth District, Mr. Mitchell is facing David Schweikert, a former treasurer of Maricopa County, in a rematch of a 2008 contest that Mr. Mitchell won, 53 percent to 44 percent. This year's race is expected to be much closer.
Before he entered politics, Mr. Mitchell taught government at Tempe High School. Asked how he would explain the dynamics of this election season if he were back in the classroom, he responded: ''It would be very difficult to explain what's going on. I would probably talk about the history of midterm elections and how people were hurting from the economy and were looking for answers -- sometimes easy answers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Raul M. Grijalva, after a forum last week, is being challenged by a 28-year-old Republican with Tea Party support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Gabrielle Giffords, at a debate, is a Democrat, but she likes to link herself to the state's Republican senators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (69%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); TAX REFORM (50%)

PERSON: RAUL M GRIJALVA (89%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (59%); BEN QUAYLE (58%); ED PASTOR (58%); SARAH PALIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



724 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Silver Lining In F.D.I.C. Deal

BYLINE: By ROB COX and WEI GU

 BODY:
At first blush, the anticipated initial public offering of BankUnited looks like a deal that could leave Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, red in the face. After all, she sold the bank, with $13 billion of assets, to a group of private equity heavy-hitters in May 2009 for a song. While it's not yet clear how much those investors will make, any profit will sound indecent next to the F.D.I.C.'s projected losses on the deal.
But Ms. Bair need not be embarrassed. As one of the first big rescue operations of the banking crisis, the BankUnited deal served to pique investor interest in the banking sector. That arguably helped to reduce overall losses to the insurance fund, whose ultimate backstop is the American taxpayer. 
True, it's not going to look pretty for the F.D.I.C. when BankUnited goes public, which it can do from late next month under the deal it brokered 18 months ago. Investors including Carlyle, Blackstone and Wilbur Ross plugged $900 million of new capital into the bank. That equity is almost certain to be worth a multiple of what they paid.
To entice this crew, the F.D.I.C. had to share losses on $10.7 billion of BankUnited's assets. The estimated cost to the F.D.I.C. at the time was $4.9 billion, or 46 percent of the assets covered under the loss-sharing agreement. That's double the loss ratios on deals taking place this year, according to Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
But that's sort of the point. To attract capital and foster competition, the F.D.I.C. needed to let one or two prominent deals through the door. BankUnited, and a similar rescue operation for the assets of IndyMac, galvanized the attention of sharp-elbowed private equity barons and got healthy rival banks into the mix.
After the BankUnited deal, the F.D.I.C. changed the rules. It made it harder for private equity to grab assets cheaply. And by forcing them to hold the investments for longer, it reduced potential returns. Moreover, the F.D.I.C. learned to negotiate better for a piece of any upside.
How much BankUnited will make for its investors won't be clear until its debut. And it will surely look scandalous against the F.D.I.C.'s losses on the deal. But in comparison to the billions the F.D.I.C. may have saved since, it could be a rounding error.
Merger of Exchanges
Magnus Bocker, chief executive of the Singapore Exchange, or SGX, is certainly thinking big. Whether his $8.3 billion bid for ASX, which is based in Sydney and is Australia's main stock market operator, is good for his own shareholders is another matter. The move has some strategic logic. But the cost savings are small and the 37 percent premium seems too generous.
A Singapore-Australia union makes some sense for both exchanges. Asia lacks a big non-Chinese trading platform. Both countries face outside pressure. Singapore has been losing China-related listings to Hong Kong. Australia struggles to benefit from the Asia boom, as it is culturally and physically remote. Together, they offer investors access to 2,700 companies from 20-plus countries, and the world's second-largest grouping of resources stocks.
But few synergies can be extracted. The partners aren't merging their markets, so the combined entity still needs to operate two order books and matching systems. The cost savings will be perhaps only $30 million a year with a net present value of at best $300 million, a tiny fraction of the $2.2 billion premium Singapore is offering.
The deal may still enhance SGX's earnings. That's because the exchange, which is in a net cash position, plans to add $3.8 billion in debt to finance the deal.
It's also exploiting its premium valuation: the Singapore exchange is valued at 28 times 2011 earnings, versus the multiple of 23 times it is offering for its Australian rival, according to Deutsche Bank. But extra leverage will make future earnings more vulnerable; and SGX is diluting some of its growth potential by merging with slower-growing ASX.
Singapore had to offer a premium to get the deal done, not least because it needs ASX to persuade Australian regulators to part with a national treasure.
Nevertheless, this looks like a value-destructive move. Mr. Bocker will be hoping it's not a big one. ROB COX and WEI GU

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Magnus Bocker, chief executive of the Singapore Exchange, on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGIO DIONISIO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (50%) AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



725 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Sales Decline 5%, But 2 Big Dailies Show Gains

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Newspapers across the country broadly reported falling circulation from April through September, though the rate of decline slowed from the alarming pace in the same period last year, according to figures released on Monday by the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
As for the question of which paper can rightfully lay claim to the title of the nation's biggest, The Wall Street Journal and USA Today continued to split hairs over what the numbers say. 
The Audit Bureau showed that average weekday circulation at 635 newspapers declined 5 percent compared with the same six months last year. The decline last year was more than twice that, 10.6 percent, as newspapers struggled through the recession and more readers abandoned print copies for the Internet.
Sunday circulation at 553 newspapers fell at a slightly slower pace, 4.5 percent, the figures showed. Last year, it declined 7.5 percent.
The Journal reported an average weekday circulation of slightly fewer than 2.1 million, up 2 percent from a year ago. USA Today's circulation was 1.8 million, down almost 4 percent. But because of an accounting rule that allows papers to count some subscribers twice when they receive both a print and electronic edition - one on a tablet device or through a Web site, for example - the Journal's circulation figures were somewhat inflated.
The Journal's 2.1 million circulation figure includes 450,000 electronic subscriptions. The number of printed copies The Journal distributes each weekday averaged 1.6 million, a figure that has remained about steady in the three years since Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation bought the paper.
USA Today reported an average weekday circulation of 1.8 million, including just 18,000 electronic subscriptions.
Each paper claimed on Monday that the figures made it the industry leader. The Journal referred to itself in a news release as ''the number one newspaper,'' while USA Today claimed the title ''America's number one choice in a daily print newspaper.''
The Journal was one of only two major newspapers to report an increase. The other was The Dallas Morning News, which posted an increase of 0.3 percent to 264,000 after including a smaller sister paper in its figures.
Behind USA Today in the No. 3 spot was The New York Times, with an average weekday circulation of 877,000. That was down 6 percent from the same six-month period last year. The Los Angeles Times was No. 4 with 600,000, down 9 percent. The Washington Post was No. 5 with 545,000, down 6 percent.
The largest Sunday papers were The New York Times with a circulation of 1.4 million, down 3 percent; The Los Angeles Times with 901,000, down 8 percent; and The Chicago Tribune with 768,000, down 4 percent.
Randy Bennett, senior vice president for business development at the Newspaper Association of America, said the declines in part reflected a decision by newspaper publishers to eliminate low-cost - and less profitable - subscriptions. ''There's an acknowledgment that in this multichannel world, newspapers recognize there is a distinct audience for the printed product, and they're going to spend much of their energies to reach that audience.''
The list of the top 25 papers by weekday circulation, for April through September 2010 and 2009, is below. Circulation figures are followed by last year's figures and the percent difference:
WALL STREET JOURNAL 2,061,142 ... 2,024,269 ... 1.82%USA TODAY 1,830,594 ... 1,900,116 ... -3.66%NEW YORK TIMES 876,638 ... 927,851 ... -5.52%LOS ANGELES TIMES 600,449 ... 657,467 ... -8.67%WASHINGTON POST 545,345 ... 582,844 ... -6.43%NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 512,520 ... 544,167 ... -5.82%NEW YORK POST 501,501 ... 508,042 ... -1.29%SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS 477,592 N/ACHICAGO TRIBUNE 441,508 ... 465,892 ... -5.23%HOUSTON CHRONICLE 343,952 ... 384,437 ... -10.53%PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER 342,361 ... 361,481 ... -5.29%NEWSDAY 314,848 ... 357,124 ... -11.84%DENVER POST 309,863 ... 340,949 ... -9.12%ARIZONA REPUBLIC 308,973 ... 316,873 ... -2.49%MINNEAPOLIS STAR TRIBUNE 297,478 ... 304,544 ... -2.32%DALLAS MORNING NEWS 264,459 ... 263,810 ... 0.25%CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER 252,608 ... 271,182 ... -6.85%SEATTLE TIMES 251,697 ... 263,588 -4.51%CHICAGO SUN-TIMES 250,747 ... 275,641 ... -9.03%DETROIT FREE PRESS 245,326 ... 269,729 ... -9.05%ST. PETERSBURG TIMES 239,684 ... 240,146 ... -0.19%OREGONIAN 239,071 ... 249,164 ... -4.05%SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNE 224,761 ... 242,693 ... -7.39%SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE 223,549 ... 251,782 ... -11.21%NEWARK STAR-LEDGER 223,037 ... 246,006 ... -9.34%
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); STATISTICS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); ACCOUNTING (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (58%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



726 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Prez N the Hood: A Hip-Hop Parody Stirs Up Issues

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
''I'm the head of the state!'' President Obama shouts, with a blend of jubilation and indignation on his face.
Except that's not exactly what he says -- the sentence is spiked with an expletive and a racial epithet.
And, of course, it's not Mr. Obama, but an extremely convincing impersonator, James Davis, performing as Baracka Flacka Flames in a video called ''Head of the State.'' (The video is available on YouTube and elsewhere online.) The clip, which has been viewed more than million times since Thursday, is a spoof of the bombastic ''Hard in Da Paint,'' the recent hit by the rowdy Atlanta rapper Waka Flocka Flame.
After that introduction, there are three more minutes of jarring juxtapositions. Mr. Davis's Obama raps about his detractors with more curses and epithets, smokes marijuana, dances with a bottle of alcohol, pets a pit bull and more. Actresses play the first lady (Jefandi Cato, whose resemblance to Michelle Obama is a little uncanny) and Oprah Winfrey, who happily join in the raucous party. 
It's first-rate parody, and also untested waters. Mr. Obama was a favorite of comedians even before he was elected president, but typically his stiffness and aloofness are their targets. In reimagining the President as an off-duty, fun-chasing tough guy, Baracka Flacka Flames is a different proposition.
On the one hand, it's witty and incisive parody, as fluent in Mr. Obama's tics as in hip-hop manners. The clip was filmed in front of an abandoned house in South Central Los Angeles and echoes the video of Waka Flocka Flame's original song.
As well, it's seemingly an acknowledgment by the filmmakers that racial stereotypes still shape how some people perceive the first couple, and that many divergent stripes of blackness can be collapsed into one idea.
The enterprise is elevated to something greater than a vulgar joke by Mr. Davis's nearly pitch-perfect impression of Mr. Obama, a challenge that many better-known comedians have struggled with (notably Fred Armisen, whose cool jazzbo Obama on ''Saturday Night Live'' is the antithesis of Mr. Davis's). Even in the distracting context of this video, the depiction is sharp and carefully executed, from the short, serious vocal interjections to the emphatic hand gestures while speaking, clenched fist vertical, with thumb pointing out at the listener.
''Like Obama, I grew up around a lot of white people, I was educated around a lot of white people,'' Mr. Davis said in an interview. ''There's a lot of impersonations I'm just naturally horrible at. I'm lucky the one I'm good at is the president.''
Mr. Davis is a stand-up comedian and a writer for various awards shows on the BET network. Martin Usher, the video's director and Mr. Davis's partner in Live That Life Productions, is a largely self-taught filmmaker who has worked on small behind-the-scenes positions on the television series ''Party Down'' and the film ''Defiance,'' among others.
The ''Head of the State'' clip that they created is in the spirit of the Lonely Island musical sketches on ''Saturday Night Live,'' though a parody of this nature, with its heavy racial overtones, would be almost unthinkable in that context.
Some of the lyrics of the original song were reworked to become more provocative and specific to the president: for example, the gun threat, ''Front yard, broad day with the SK'' became ''Secret Service, but I got my own SK.'' Others stayed the same, plenty funny without any tweaks: ''Where you at? Where's your trap? You ain't hood.''
Fusing worlds -- Hollywood and South Central, the presidency and hip-hop, and so on -- is integral to Mr. Davis's comedy. He grew up ''a block away from Crenshaw,'' he said, ''not in the hood, but hood-adjacent.'' He cites ''Chappelle's Show'' as well as parody films, including ''Fear of a Black Hat'' and ''I'm Gonna Git You Sucka'' as inspirations.
The vacant house used in the shoot is across the street from Mr. Usher's home. To get approval to shoot on the block, Mr. Davis and Mr. Usher sat down with local authorities, which in this case, does not mean the police. ''We somewhat got a hood pass, we talked to some O.G.'s,'' Mr. Davis said, referring to original gangsters. ''That was some of the most exciting things about this, sitting around with people I know gangbang, 'American Gangster'-looking dudes.'' (The process ended up echoing the story line of Waka Flocka Flame's video, in which the rapper gets an audience with Triple O.G. T. Rodgers, an early member of the Bloods turned gang interventionist.)
Locating Mr. Obama in a hip-hop context wasn't a stretch, Mr. Davis said: ''He's a come-up story, in the biggest way possible. That's what a lot of rap is about, grinding hard, making it from nothing to something.''
Mr. Obama has become something of a hip-hop touchstone, rapped about by Jay-Z and Young Jeezy, but also someone who has been tarred for his relationship to the genre. When Ludacris released a song before the 2008 election that criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton and John McCain, the Obama campaign went on the defensive, denouncing it. And when Mr. Obama told Rolling Stone last month that he had Lil Wayne on his iPod, the conservative backlash was as swift as it was predictable.
And yet what makes ''Head of the State'' so successful is the idea of Mr. Obama as a fish out of water, cutting loose in a fantastical context. ''Who is Obama when the White House doors are closed, and the cameras leave?'' Mr. Davis asked. ''I would be a little disappointed if Obama only listened to Luther Vandross and Sinatra. Obama needs some Lil Wayne in between staff meetings. I want some bass in that White House.''
Not everyone has shared Mr. Davis's curiosity or his willingness to play fast and loose with the image of the president and the first lady, who has largely been immune to the sort of scrutiny that her husband endures. Mr. Davis appeared on ''Inside Edition'' last week to endure a grilling about whether the clip was disrespectful to the president, and whether it would be disruptive to the midterm elections.
And Waka Flocka Flame appears to be of mixed opinion on the song. ''That they used it to be so sarcastic, it was almost a form of disrespect,'' he said. He shared it on Twitter, though only to ''let other people see how ignorant other people can be,'' he asserted, not wholly convincingly. His manager, Debra Antney (who is also his mother), said she called up the influential hip-hop video site WorldstarHipHop.com to have the clip removed, to no avail. ''That's not a positive image for us, period, as African-Americans, where we came from, where we're going today,'' she said.
Mr. Davis, though, said he believed that the sort of humor in the clip helped move beyond basic binaries about racial representation. ''I can speak to the educated black guy and the hood black guy,'' he said. ''The fact that we can come out and put on a full production like this in an area where there's gang violence, in what people would consider the hood, is important to me.''
And he believes that the president wouldn't be offended by his portrayal, if he ever sees it. ''I don't know what it takes to get to Obama,'' Mr. Davis said. ''If the White House is like other businesses, other offices, he probably knows about it. Maybe it's on his to-do list: fix the economy, health care, watch this link.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Davis as Baracka Flacka Flames in a YouTube video, ''Head of the State.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOUTUBE) (C1)
 The director Martin Usher, left, and the comedian James Davis in their Los Angeles studio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); FILM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CANNABIS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (74%); MOVIE FILMING (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%)

PERSON: JIM DAVIS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); OPRAH WINFREY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



727 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Not Even on the Ballot in the Alaska Senate Race, but Still a Contender

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
FAIRBANKS, Alaska -- The candidate treated like the front-runner in the Alaska Senate race is one not actually on the ballot.
Neither Joe Miller nor Scott McAdams, for instance, was invited on stage here at the annual convention of the Alaska Federation of Natives last week. The only candidate allowed to address the 4,000 in attendance -- and the candidate the federation eventually endorsed -- was the incumbent, Lisa Murkowski, the Republican now running as a write-in candidate.
''You humble me, you honor me,'' Ms. Murkowski told the crowd. ''I will fight for you as long as I am able.'' 
Just weeks ago, Ms. Murkowski's bid looked like a long shot. And it still may be -- reliable polls in Alaska are few and far between.
But since being embarrassed in an upset by Mr. Miller, a protege of Sarah Palin's, in the Republican primary, Ms. Murkowski has defied conventional wisdom and her colleagues in the Republican establishment by waging a credible race as a write-in candidate. Analysts and Alaskans now say she could overcome the odds and logistical hurdles to win, something no senator has done since Strom Thurmond of South Carolina in 1954. Or she could be a spoiler.
Democrats insist that their nominee, Mr. McAdams, can pull out a victory in this heavily Republican state if he can paint Ms. Murkowski as too conservative, and her write-in campaign as too risky, for Democrats who might defect to her out of fear of a victory by Mr. Miller.
The night after the federation conference, it was Mr. Miller and Mr. McAdams who appeared together for a debate at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. Ms. Murkowski was nowhere to be found, but that did not stop the other two from attacking her: She is too liberal. No, she is too conservative.
''Maybe we ought to debate Lisa for the rest of the night,'' Mr. McAdams quipped at one point. '''What do you think, Joe?'''
A few moments later, when the candidates were supposed to ask each other questions, Mr. Miller said, ''Scott, I'm tempted just to ask questions about Lisa.''
Later, the moderator inadvertently addressed one of them as ''Scott Miller.''
Ms. Murkowski has attended most debates, but in a year filled with unconventional races across the country, hers is among the most unlikely. She has shed her sometimes mechanical public presence and struck populist notes -- she even sang during a stump speech in Fairbanks last week.
''Fill in the oval, write it on the line,'' the senator sang in a shaky contralto, striving to create an Election Day anthem out of a supporter's original tune, called ''Cinderella.''
Mr. Miller remains the presumptive favorite, but his lead has narrowed after a string of setbacks since his surprising primary victory.
News reports in Alaska have raised questions about everything from farm subsidies, unemployment and government health care benefits and even a low-income fishing license that Mr. Miller or his family members have received. Critics say the reports have undermined his credibility when he argues against the federal health care bill and unemployment benefits or vows to eliminate the Department of Education and eventually privatize Social Security.
Over the weekend, after Mr. Miller refused for weeks to answer questions about disciplinary action taken against him when he worked as a lawyer for Fairbanks North Star Borough, a judge ordered records of the incident released as soon as Tuesday. (The ruling also came after Mr. Miller's security guards handcuffed Tony Hopfinger, the editor of Alaska Dispatch, an online news site, when he tried to ask Mr. Miller about the matter at a campaign event.)
Mr. Miller may still fight the judge's order, though in a debate in Anchorage on Sunday, he admitted to being suspended from work for an ethics violation in 2008 for using government computers for political purposes. He left the job in the summer of 2009.
Questions about transparency have followed the candidate. In addition to his reluctance to discuss the ethics violation, he has also brushed off the handcuffing of the journalist, saying he played no role in the incident. Mr. Miller lives down a series of long gravel roads at the edge of Fairbanks. Security cameras are positioned to monitor the entrance to his house, which sits out of sight.
Asked about the security cameras in a brief interview, Mr. Miller initially asked a reporter to identify who revealed their existence. When the reporter declined to do so, Mr. Miller noted that he had once been a federal magistrate judge.
''There were security issues on occasion while I was U.S. magistrate judge,'' he said.
While Mr. Miller worries that Ms. Murkowski will win Republican votes, Democrats hope to cast her as too conservative.
Alaska's other senator, Mark Begich, a Democrat, who has had several staff members join or volunteer for the McAdams campaign, noted that Mr. McAdams, the mayor of Sitka, might need only a third of all votes to win. Presuming a 60 percent turnout, that is about 100,000 votes.
Underscoring both sides' concerns over the Murkowski campaign, lawyers for state Democrats and Republicans have joined in a lawsuit accusing the State Division of Elections of improperly providing lists of write-in candidates to all voting locations and, in at least one polling place, in Homer, posting the lists inside voting booths.
A letter from the state elections director, Gail Fenumiai, written last week before the lawsuit was filed, said the lists were intended to be provided only to voters who requested them, not posted inside booths.
On Monday, after weeks of silence in the race, Ms. Palin used her Facebook page to attack Ms. Murkowski for comments the senator made in a televised debate the night before in Anchorage. Ms. Murkowski had raised the subject of Mr. Miller's military service and questioned whether his conduct in the campaign was honorable.
''I find it astonishing that a sitting U.S. senator from Alaska would challenge the honor of a decorated combat veteran,'' Ms. Palin wrote.
Ms. Murkowski is having to position herself carefully.
Asked whether she would do more to win Democratic votes, the senator said in an interview that she would not change her party. But, she said, ''I've made it very clear that when I go back to Washington it will be because Alaskans have sent me back, not Republicans.''
She went on to name a range of constituencies she was courting, from libertarians and environmentalists to Democrats and Republicans. A moment later, just to be safe, an aide leaned in to clarify that she was indeed still a Republican.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Using photographs and illustrations, a campaign poster on display at the Alaska Federation of Natives convention showed Joe Miller crossing the Iditarod finish line trailed by Scott McAdams. Lisa Murkowski's head can be seen in the second sled's basket.
 Mr. McAdams, second from right, outside the Alaska Federation of Natives convention last week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: ALASKA FEDERATION OF NATIVES (91%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (90%); SARAH PALIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (90%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



728 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reviewing Foreclosure Procedures

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Federal banking regulators are examining whether mortgage companies cut corners on their procedures when they moved to foreclose on people's homes, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Monday. 
Preliminary results of the in-depth review into the practices of the nation's largest mortgage companies are expected to be released next month, Mr. Bernanke said in remarks prepared for delivery to a housing finance conference in Arlington, Va.
''We are looking intensively at the firms' policies, procedures and internal controls related to foreclosures and seeking to determine whether systematic weaknesses are leading to improper foreclosures,'' Mr. Bernanke said in remarks that echoed those made last week by several administration officials.
Mr. Bernanke's remarks come as attorneys general in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia are jointly investigating whether mortgage companies improperly evicted people from their homes. They are looking into whether paperwork and legal procedures were handled properly.
At the same time, staff members at the Fed and other federal agencies are evaluating the potential effects of the foreclosure debacle on the real-estate market and on financial institutions, he said. Federal officials said last week that several agencies were investigating mortgage lenders, but Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development. said that the government had found no evidence of ''systemic issues in the underlying legal documents.''
Bank of America and Ally Financial Inc.'s GMAC Mortgage have resumed processing foreclosures, after halting them temporarily to review documents. Both lenders face allegations that employees signed but didn't read foreclosure documents that may have contained errors. Other companies, including PNC Financial Services and JPMorgan, have halted tens of thousands of foreclosures after similar practices became public.
Dubious mortgage practices and lax lending standards were blamed for contributing to a housing bubble that eventually burst and thrust the economy beginning in 2007 into the worst recession since the 1930s. Many Americans took out home loans that they did not understand and bought homes that they could not afford.
As a result, foreclosures have soared to record highs, and remain one of the negative forces restraining the economy's ability to get back on sounder footing.
Now more than 20 percent of borrowers owe more than their home is worth, and an additional 33 percent have equity cushions of 10 percent of less, putting them at risk should house prices decline much further, Mr. Bernanke said.
''With housing markets still weak, high levels of mortgage distress may well persist for some time to come,'' Mr. Bernanke warned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); EVICTION (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CITIES (51%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



729 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sets New Truck Rules For Mileage and Emissions

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The federal government announced the first national emissions and fuel economy standards for heavy vehicles on Monday, one of a series of regulatory steps that the Obama administration is taking to increase energy efficiency and reduce atmospheric pollution in the absence of Congressional action on climate change.
The administration also announced approval of a major solar power installation on public land in the California desert, a step toward weaning the nation from dependence on fossil fuels. Together they represent what President Obama has called a more ''bite-size'' approach to global warming that he intends to pursue while efforts to pass comprehensive legislation are stalled. 
The mileage proposal, which is scheduled to become final next year after a period of public comment, will apply to tractor-trailers, buses, delivery vans, heavy pickup trucks, cement mixers and many other classes of vehicles. It will cover new vehicles manufactured between 2014 and 2018.
The proposed policy would apply different standards to different vehicles, based on weight and intended use. For example, over-the-road tractor-trailers would be required to achieve a 20 percent reduction in fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions by 2018. Heavy-duty pickups and vans would be subject to different gasoline and diesel fuel standards, with reductions ranging from 10 to 15 percent. Other work trucks would have to reduce fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent by 2018.
Lisa P. Jackson, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that the new standards were an extension of the mileage and emissions rules that the administration had already adopted for passenger cars and light trucks. She said that lower fuel costs for truckers would more than cover the costs of the technology used to meet the new standards and would create jobs in truck manufacturing and related industries.
''Over all, this program will save $41 billion and much of it will stay home in the U.S. economy rather than paying for imported oil,'' she said in a briefing.
The standards draw from a study issued this year by the National Academy of Sciences, which found that existing technology -- including low-rolling-resistance tires, improved aerodynamics, more efficient engines, hybrid electric drive systems and idling controls -- could cut fuel use in trucks by a third to a half.
The standards proposed by the administration, after extensive consultation with manufacturers and trucking companies and a detailed review by the White House Office of Management and Budget, are significantly less ambitious to keep costs manageable, officials said.
Heavy vehicles account for more than 10 percent of the nation's overall oil consumption and about 20 percent of the greenhouse gases emitted by the transportation sector. Because fuel use by trucks and buses is growing faster than most other emissions that contribute to global warming, even relatively modest cuts in diesel consumption will pay large environmental benefits, Ms. Jackson said.
The new rules proposed by the E.P.A. and the Department of Transportation reflect the different patterns of use for varying types of trucks. Long-haul freightliners and buses typically travel 100,000 miles a year and can achieve large fuel savings with relatively small investments in technology. Fire trucks and cement mixers, on the other hand, travel relatively few miles annually and thus have a lower target.
The American Trucking Associations praised the approach, saying that allowing manufacturers and truck users to find ways to meet defined new mileage standards was preferable to imposing a fuel tax or a broad program for reducing carbon dioxide emissions on the entire transportation sector. The group said that it was withholding more detailed comment until it studied the proposed regulations.
Luke Tonachel, an expert on clean vehicles at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group, called heavy trucks and buses the ''energy hogs of America's roadways'' and said that their fuel use could be cut beyond what the administration had proposed.
''President Obama did the right thing by encouraging the creation of these standards,'' Mr. Tonachel said in a statement, ''but today's proposal should be strengthened further to maximize the environmental, security and economic benefits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A federal official said lower fuel costs would easily cover the costs to truckers to meet new fuel economy and emission rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); TRUCKING (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LISA P JACKSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



730 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Shift in Talent Fortifies Elite Teams

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Three towering figures rise upon a stage, like Roman columns rising from the earth. They are clad all in white, their backs to the audience. Ominous music plays, and smoke shoots skyward.
The men turn around in unison. One flexes and unleashes a roar. One grins. One folds his arms. They bob their heads and smile. Then LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh descend stairs to slap hands with adoring fans, like rock stars on tour.
In that moment on July 9, amid the pyrotechnics, the Miami Heat became a national Rorschach test. Everyone saw something: greatness, arrogance, self-indulgence, boldness, cowardice, pride, friendship, collusion, joy, cynicism, heroes, mercenaries. 
No matter who wins the title in June, the N.B.A. season that starts Tuesday night -- with LeBron and friends visiting the Boston Celtics -- will largely be defined by the Heat. Even the defending champion Los Angeles Lakers will be measured against Miami.
So add one more ink blot to the binder: the Heat as a prism for labor negotiations and the N.B.A.'s future. The conversation will involve a different vocabulary: franchise tags, Bird rights, hard salary caps, contraction.
The N.B.A. and the players union are working on a new collective bargaining agreement, with the current deal set to expire next July. This season's most compelling stories will be intertwined with the drama at the bargaining table.
For years, the N.B.A.'s labor deal kept superstars at home, with longer contracts and more guaranteed money. It promoted parity and stability and kept the small markets happy.
But the dam broke in July.
James left Cleveland and Bosh left Toronto to play with Wade in Miami. Amar'e Stoudemire left Phoenix to join the Knicks. Carlos Boozer left Utah for Chicago. The talent migration was staggering.
It put some executives and fans on edge, and sent ripples across the league. Suddenly, Chris Paul was itching to leave New Orleans and Carmelo Anthony was demanding a trade from Denver. They reportedly want to form their own superstar fraternity in New York, with Stoudemire.
''This summer changed things,'' said Steve Kerr, the TNT analyst and former Phoenix Suns president.
Whether those changes are good or bad is up for debate. But there has been a pronounced talent shift since 2007, with superteams rising in Boston, Los Angeles and Miami at the expense of teams in Minnesota, Memphis, Cleveland and Toronto.
Since 2007, 27 players have been named All-N.B.A. Thirteen of them are playing for just five teams: Miami (Wade, James, Bosh), Boston (Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett, Shaquille O'Neal), the Lakers (Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol), San Antonio (Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili) and Denver (Anthony, Chauncey Billups).
''If you're not one of those teams, and you don't have the potential of being one of those teams, then it gets kind of scary,'' said Kevin McHale, the former Minnesota Timberwolves president who now works for N.B.A. TV.
The Hall of Famer Charles Barkley put it more starkly: ''It's bad for the N.B.A. My concern is that we're becoming like pro baseball.''
The chorus of alarmists does not include Commissioner David Stern, who cheerfully notes that Kevin Durant, the league's brightest new star, signed a five-year extension with Oklahoma City this summer. Stern also notes that superteams have always been part of the landscape.
''Last time I looked, in a very glorious way, Larry Bird played with Kevin McHale and with Robert Parish and Danny Ainge and Dennis Johnson,'' Stern said in an interview, referring to the Celtics of the 1980s.
He also pointed to the 1980s Lakers of Magic Johnson, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and James Worthy; and to the 1990s Bulls of Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman.
The difference now is that there are now 30 franchises instead of the 24 that existed in the 1980s. The pool of elite players has been spread thin.
The league is also dealing with tough economic situations in Indianapolis, Sacramento, New Orleans, Detroit, Memphis and Charlotte.
Last week, Stern acknowledged that contraction -- the elimination of weaker franchises -- was being discussed, primarily as an economic solution. Although Stern did not say it, contraction might also solve the talent gap.
Stern said concerns about superstar defections were overstated. But he acknowledged that new restrictions on free-agent movement were on the table.
''We're looking at other systems,'' Stern said, listing the N.F.L.'s franchise-tag system -- which effectively binds superstars to their teams -- as one option.
A less drastic approach would be to strengthen the existing ''Bird rights,'' which allow players to make millions more, and sometimes tens of millions, if they stay with their teams.
The league also wants a hard salary cap to replace its soft-cap system. The hard cap is intended as a money saver, but it could also promote parity by making it nearly impossible to collect superstars. (On the flip side, the N.B.A. also wants shorter contracts, which would put superstars back on the market more often.)
Then again, superstars drive interest and ratings. The Heat will almost certainly sell out every game, home and road, this season. As polarizing as the so-called Miami Thrice have become, they are indisputably compelling.
''The nice thing now,'' Kerr said, ''is we get to watch them play.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Heat made a splash in the off-season with the aggregation of Dwyane Wade, inset left, Chris Bosh, center, and LeBron James, but watch out for the Lakers' Kobe Bryant, top left, the Thunder's Kevin Durant, top right, the Celtics' Rajon Rondo, bottom left, and the Magic's Dwight Howard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT, DANNY MOLOSHOK/REUTERS
LAYNE MURDOCH/NBAE, VIA GETTY IMAGES
MIKE ZARRILLI/GETTY IMAGES
 MARK J. TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POP & ROCK (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); BOSTON CELTICS (83%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (83%); ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); MIAMI HEAT (57%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (89%); KOBE BRYANT (57%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (57%); KEVIN GARNETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (87%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); ARIZONA, USA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



731 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE SPILL'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Above It All: Tracing BP's Imperious History

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Not long after the explosion that resulted in one of the largest oil spills in history, in the Gulf of Mexico this spring, the culprit BP committed public-relations gaffes, the most disturbingly memorable of which involved the company's chief executive at the time, Tony Hayward, proclaiming, ''I'd like my life back.''
But postures of insensitivity have really been the least of BP's offenses. As ''The Spill,'' a documentary that is a joint presentation of ''Frontline'' and ProPublica, so compellingly details, the company's history of flagrantly violating safety standards made lethal personal injuries and horrific accidents practically inevitable. 
The film (to be shown on Tuesday on PBS) is an old-school, dig-deep production that could have been improved upon only if it had been longer. An hour somehow seems insufficient. Viewers who like to nurse corporate grievances -- and there are certainly many of them in the current economic climate -- will wish for an additional 60 minutes. And yet there is something commendable in the film's brisk pacing and tight informative focus, one that allows the narrative of villainy to speak for itself without dramatic embellishment.
''The Spill'' travels back, looking at BP's bleak environmental and safety record, and unpacks in riveting outline the company's March 2005 disaster. At the time, an explosion in a refinery in Texas City, Texas, acquired by BP six years earlier as a result of its takeover of Amoco, killed 15 people and injured 170. Built in 1934, the refinery was in less than optimum shape. As Mike Sawyer, a process-safety engineer, explains in the film, it was typical for the refinery to experience a fire every week, on average.
''A fire every week is a warning sign that something is critically wrong at the facility,'' he says. ''It was the worst refinery around this area for sure.'' And yet cost-cutting imperatives instituted by Mr. Hayward's predecessor, John Browne, ensured that upgrades to the Texas City site -- ones that would have replaced old equipment with safer, modern flares designed to collect perilous liquids and gases in the event of an emergency -- would not happen. BP ultimately paid victims of the accident, and their families, more than a billion dollars in compensation, contingent on the promise that they never speak critically about the company in public.
''The Spill,'' without even much trying, deftly portrays the vast cultural gap between the company's British honchos and the plant managers and employees on the ground in Texas -- a gap that easily accentuates any view of the company's callousness. Here BP emerges, in effect, not merely as short-sighted, venal and stingy but also as tragically imperious. On Monday the company waged another effort in its misguided P.R. campaign, as BP's new chief executive, Bob Dudley claimed that the media and the scientific community essentially overreacted to the severity of the gulf spill.
The film is right in illuminating BP's greatest failure as its above-it-all strategy of defensive management: an attempt to litigate problems away rather than handling them at the front end, pro-actively, in a manner that would have been not only infinitely more humane but also more cost-effective. In the end BP executives couldn't quell their dangerous addiction to the bottom line. Theirs is a morality tale for all.
FRONTLINE
The Spill
On PBS stations on Tuesday night (check local listings).
Produced by Frontline with Rain Media Inc., in association with ProPublica. Written and produced by Marcela Gaviria and Martin Smith; Mr. Smith, reporter and correspondent; Abrahm Lustgarten, reporter for ProPublica.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BP's offshore rig days after the explosion that killed 11 and spilled millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES COAST GUARD) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); PERSONAL INJURY (74%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (74%); OIL SPILLS (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (59%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Frontline (TV Program); Spill, The (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



732 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Choices

 BODY:
There is no shortage of voter anger out there, and with good reason. But there are races for Congress in New York, and in Connecticut, where rejecting talent and experience makes no sense.
U.S. SENATE
Charles Schumer has served admirably in Washington for 30 years. In his 12 years as senator -- and especially in the latest recession -- he has proved his commitment to helping the middle class.
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, the Democrat who was appointed nearly two years ago to take Hillary Clinton's seat, has a more challenging race against Joseph DioGuardi, the Republican former congressman. 
Ms. Gillibrand has refashioned herself since her days as a representative from a conservative district. Her support for gun control and immigration reform are now more in step with a wider array of New Yorkers -- and she has been fighting for them. She also has been a forceful voice on ending the military's unjust Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy.
Mr. DioGuardi, who left office in 1988 and has failed five times to return, talks a lot about the national debt but supports extending tax cuts for the wealthy that would put the nation another $700 billion in the red.
We endorse Senator Charles Schumer and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, both Democrats.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
On eastern Long Island, Representative Timothy Bishop, a Democrat, is battling a dynamic and well- financed Republican, Randy Altschuler. Mr. Altschuler, a businessman and former Green Party member, has promised to be independent; it is hard to imagine any Republican doing that in today's Washington. Mr. Bishop is the right choice to protect the elderly and make health care affordable.
In New York's Congressional District 1, we endorse Representative Timothy Bishop, Democrat.
Representative Michael McMahon's district covers Staten Island and part of Brooklyn. Mr. McMahon, a Democrat, faces strong competition from the Republican Michael Grimm, an engaging former Marine, F.B.I. agent and businessman. We regret Mr. McMahon's vote against health care reform, although it was in step with his conservative district. He deserves a lot of credit for championing better mental health care for veterans and more transit funds.
In New York's 13th Congressional District, we support Representative Michael McMahon, Democrat.
Representative John Hall has one of the toughest races around, against Nan Hayworth, a retired ophthalmologist who describes herself as a fiscal conservative and social moderate. Mr. Hall is the better advocate for this Hudson River area. He has helped the elderly and worked to protect the environment. Dr. Hayworth wants to repeal the new health care protections; Mr. Hall wants to fix any problems as they arise.
In New York's 19th Congressional District, we endorse Representative John Hall, Democrat.
Congressman Scott Murphy, a Democrat who replaced Senator Gillibrand, is a better choice for his Albany-area district than the Republican, Chris Gibson, a retired Army colonel who is eagerly riding the anti-incumbent wave. Mr. Murphy has quickly gotten up to speed in Washington, particularly helping small businesses.
In New York's 20th Congressional District, we endorse Representative Scott Murphy, Democrat.
In Connecticut, Representative Jim Himes, a Democrat, has a tough battle against State Senator Dan Debicella, a Republican. Mr. Himes, a former Goldman Sachs executive who left to help finance affordable housing, is a balanced voice for an area that includes the wealthy of Greenwich and working-class Bridgeport.
We have a mixed reaction to his call for a two-year extension of the Bush-era tax cuts. The middle class needs the support; the wealthy do not. He has also fought foreclosures in Bridgeport and defended health reform's new protections for children, the uninsured and the elderly.
In Congressional District 4 in Southern Connecticut, we endorse Representative Jim Himes, Democrat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); IMMIGRATION (54%); GUN CONTROL (54%)

PERSON: JOHN J HALL (89%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL GRIMM (78%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); CHRIS GIBSON (58%); NAN HAYWORTH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



733 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: For Many, Wars Are Out of Sight, Out of Mind and Out of the Debate

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Thousands of words were expended Sunday night in the lone debate between Senator Charles E. Schumer and the Republican businessman trying against all odds to defeat him, Jay Townsend. In all the verbiage, neither man found room for two words that you'd think would loom large in a serious discussion of national policy.
One was Afghanistan. The other was Iraq. 
America is in its 10th year of war, the longest such stretch in its history. But amazingly -- some would say deplorably -- Afghanistan and Iraq were missing in action on Sunday. In the course of nearly an hour, neither was mentioned even in passing.
In part, responsibility lay with the nature of the debate, which was sponsored by NY1, as most New York political stare-downs are these days. The candidates had to deal with whatever question a panel of journalists chose to ask. There was no shortage of important topics: education, New York's economic distress, immigration, same-sex marriage and trade relations with China, to mention a few. But Afghanistan and Iraq? Nothing.
Still, the candidates had opportunities to talk about war if they wished. They were not so inclined.
Mr. Schumer, for example, was asked to assess President Obama's performance. Not surprisingly, he gave his fellow Democrat high marks, given how Mr. Obama entered office having been dealt ''the worst hand that could have been.'' He cited the financial meltdown and other woes.
It was a perfect moment for him to note that Mr. Obama also inherited two unpopular wars. Instead, Mr. Schumer said nothing -- on a weekend when newly leaked military documents put Iraq and Afghanistan front and center once again. Mr. Townsend, too, took a pass on wars that have killed nearly 5,800 Americans, a toll that includes 417 from New York, according to the State Division of Military and Naval Affairs. The agency counts both New York residents and those who were assigned to military bases in the state.
A senator could have a great deal to say about how wars are conducted and financed. Check out Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution. Check out the critical role that an outspoken senator like J. William Fulbright played during the Vietnam War.
At least Afghanistan and Iraq got attention in two debates between Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat, and her Republican opponent, Joseph J. DioGuardi. Not much attention, maybe, but some.
It took until the 46th minute but the subject finally arose in an hourlong debate broadcast by WABC-TV on Oct. 17. Ms. Gillibrand supported the Obama administration up and down the line. Mr. DioGuardi responded that ''knowing what we know now, we made a bad mistake in Iraq,'' and he criticized Mr. Obama for ''repeating the same thing in Afghanistan.'' The candidates elaborated on these points in a second go-round on Thursday on NY1.
Across 180 minutes of combined debate for New York's two Senate seats, the wars consumed all of 7 minutes and 20 seconds -- 4 percent of the available time devoted to the country's longest period of sustained combat.
(At that, it was an eternity compared with the eight seconds spent on a question about whether military commissions were preferable to civilian courts for terrorism trials. That complex matter was handled with a simple yes or no. Mr. DioGuardi said yes to military tribunals. Ms. Gillibrand said no.)
The near-invisibility of Afghanistan and Iraq reflected the remoteness of the wars for most people. In the absence of a draft, the burden of fighting falls on a tiny segment of the population. The rest of America has a license to dwell unencumbered on foreclosures, Wall Street megabonuses and urgent concerns like Lindsay Lohan's latest struggle with drugs.
To some degree, the politicians' reticence is understandable, said Leslie Cagan, a founder of the antiwar group United for Peace and Justice. ''They just don't know where people are at with these wars,'' she said, ''and they don't want to step on a land mine and have it blow up in their faces.'' Ms. Cagan doesn't let her own movement off the hook. It hasn't done enough, she said, to show people how the wars ''aggravate the economic crisis.''
One strength of the political system is that it always provides for new elections and thus new opportunities. Since Afghanistan and Iraq aren't going away, candidates can feel secure in the knowledge that they will be given many more chances to ignore the wars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: America's wars were not discussed in the debate between Senator Charles E. Schumer, right, and his rival, Jay Townsend. (POOL PHOTO BY KARL RABE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); IMMIGRATION (53%); MARRIAGE (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



734 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: White House Tries to Build United Front To Face China

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration, facing a confrontational relationship with China on exchange rates, trade and security issues, is stiffening its approach toward Beijing, seeking allies to confront a newly assertive power that officials now say has little intention of working with the United States.
In a shift from its assiduous one-on-one courtship of Beijing, the administration is trying to line up coalitions -- among China's next-door neighbors and far-flung trading partners -- to present Chinese leaders with a unified front on thorny issues like the currency and their country's territorial claims in the South China Sea.
The advantages and limitations of this new approach were on display over the weekend at a meeting of the world's largest economies in South Korea. The United States won support for a concrete pledge to reduce trade imbalances, which will put more pressure on China to allow its currency to rise in value.
But Germany, Italy and Russia balked at an American proposal to place numerical limits on these imbalances, a step that would have further isolated Beijing. That left the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to make an unscheduled stop in China on his way home from South Korea to discuss the deepening tensions over exchange rates with a top Chinese finance official. 
Administration officials speak of an alarming loss of trust and confidence between China and the United States over the past two years, forcing them to scale back hopes of working with the Chinese on major challenges like climate change, nuclear nonproliferation and a new global economic order.
The latest source of tension is over reports that China is withholding shipments of rare-earth minerals, which the United States uses to make advanced equipment like guided missiles. Administration officials, clearly worried, said they did not know whether Beijing's motivation was strategic or economic.
''This administration came in with one dominant idea: make China a global partner in facing global challenges,'' said David Shambaugh, director of the China policy program at George Washington University. ''China failed to step up and play that role. Now, they realize they're dealing with an increasingly narrow-minded, self-interested, truculent, hyper-nationalist and powerful country.''
To counter what some officials view as a surge of Chinese triumphalism, the United States is reinvigorating cold war alliances with Japan and South Korea, and shoring up its presence elsewhere in Asia. This week, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will visit Vietnam for the second time in four months, to attend an East Asian summit meeting likely to be dominated by the China questions.
Next month, President Obama plans to tour four major Asian democracies -- Japan, Indonesia, India and South Korea -- while bypassing China. The itinerary is not meant as a snub: Mr. Obama has already been to Beijing once, and his visit to Indonesia has long been delayed. But the symbolism is not lost on administration officials.
Jeffrey A. Bader, a major China policy adviser in the White House, said China's muscle-flexing became especially noticeable after the 2008 economic crisis, in part because Beijing's faster rebound led to a ''widespread judgment that the U.S. was a declining power and that China was a rising power.''
But the administration, he said, is determined ''to effectively counteract that impression by renewing American leadership.''
Political factors at home have contributed to the administration's tougher posture. With the economy sputtering and unemployment high, Beijing has become an all-purpose target. In this Congressional election season, candidates in at least 30 races are demonizing China as a threat to American jobs.
At a time of partisan paralysis in Congress, anger over China's currency has been one of the few areas of bipartisan agreement, culminating in the House's overwhelming vote in September to threaten China with tariffs on its exports if Beijing did not let its currency, the renminbi, appreciate.
The trouble is that China's own domestic forces may cause it to dig in its heels. With the Communist Party embarking on a transfer of leadership from President Hu Jintao to his anointed successor, Xi Jinping, the leadership is wary of changes that could hobble China's growth.
There are also increasingly sharp divisions between China's civilian leaders and elements of the People's Liberation Army. Many Chinese military officers are openly hostile toward the United States, convinced that its recent naval exercises in the Yellow Sea amount to a policy of encircling China.
Even the administration's efforts to collaborate with China on climate change and nonproliferation are viewed with suspicion by some in Beijing.
Mr. Obama's aides, many of them veterans of the Clinton years, understand that especially on economic issues, there are elements of brinkmanship in the relationship, which can imply more acrimony than actually exists.
But the White House was concerned enough that last month it sent a high-level delegation to Beijing that included Mr. Bader; Lawrence H. Summers, the departing director of the National Economic Council; and Thomas E. Donilon, who has since been named national security adviser.
''We were struck by the seriousness with which they shared our commitment to managing differences and recognizing that our two countries were going to have a very large effect on the global economy,'' Mr. Summers said.
Just before the meeting, China began allowing the renminbi to rise at a somewhat faster rate, though its total appreciation, since Beijing announced in June that it would loosen exchange-rate controls, still amounts to less than 3 percent. Economists estimate that the currency is undervalued by at least 20 percent.
Meanwhile, trade tensions between the two sides are flaring anew. The administration recently agreed to investigate charges by the United Steelworkers that China was violating trade laws with its state support of clean-energy technologies. That prompted China's top energy official, Zhang Guobao, to accuse the administration of trying to win votes -- a barb that angered White House officials.
Of the halt in shipments of rare-earth minerals, Mr. Summers said, ''There are serious questions, both in the economic and in the strategy realm, that are going to require close study within our government.''
Beijing had earlier withheld these shipments to Japan, after a spat over a Chinese fishing vessel that collided with Japanese patrol boats near disputed islands. It was one of several recent provocative moves by Beijing toward its neighbors -- including one that prompted the administration to enter the fray.
In Hanoi in July, Mrs. Clinton said the United States would help facilitate talks between Beijing and its neighbors over disputed islands in the South China Sea. Chinese officials were livid when it became clear that the United States had lined up 12 countries behind the American position.
With President Hu set to visit Washington early next year, administration officials said Mrs. Clinton would strike a more harmonious note in Asia this week. For now, they said, the United States feels it has made its point.
''The signal to Beijing ought to be clear,'' Mr. Shambaugh said. ''The U.S. has other closer, deeper friends in the region.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton with Timothy F. Geithner, left, and Vice Premier Wang Qishan of China in Beijing in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FENG LI/GETTY IMAGES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



735 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Bond Frenzy: Investors Bet On Inflation

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Graham Bowley and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At a time when savers complain that they are earning almost no interest from their bank accounts, some investors on Monday bought United States government bonds that effectively had a negative rate of return.
Bizarre as it sounds, that is correct. In an auction of a special kind of five-year Treasury bond, investors paid $105.50 for every $100 of bonds the government sold -- agreeing to pay the government for the privilege of lending it money.
The reason is that these types of bonds offer a guaranteed protection against inflation. So, if inflation soars -- as some economists worry might happen, with the government seeking to give the economy a boost by flooding it with money -- the value of the bonds would go up accordingly. 
The investors who took part in the $10 billion auction are betting that inflation, now at about 1 percent annually, will rise to a level that more than compensates for the premium they paid.
The unusual auction on Monday ''reflects a condition in the Treasury market that has been in place for months, chiefly that yields on shorter maturities have moved below the inflation rate,'' Anthony Crescenzi, a senior vice president at the bond giant Pimco, wrote in a research note.
Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott, said there were about $28 billion worth of bids for the notes. About 40 percent were foreign buyers, 57 percent dealers and the rest were possibly retail investors, he said. The prediction is for a 1.58 percent rate of inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index.
''It was good demand considering the negative yields,'' he said. ''They are counting on the Fed to be successful in generating inflation.''
As strange as all this may seem, these investors were actually going along with conventional market wisdom. Many economists are concerned that if the economy continues to stagnate, there is a danger of deflation, or a decline in prices, that would be difficult to reverse.
Most analysts expect that the Federal Reserve, which has already lowered interest rates to near zero and bought Treasury securities in efforts to reinvigorate the economy, is about to pump even more money into the system. Such a move would probably increase the rate of inflation.
Fed officials have hinted at such action in recent appearances. In a speech in Boston on Oct. 15, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said that ''there would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a case for further action.''
The markets interpreted that and other statements as unmistakable signals that the Fed was poised to act at its next meeting, on Nov. 2-3.
Mr. Bernanke couched his argument in terms of the Fed's mandate to keep prices stable and maximize employment. He said that inflation had been running well below the implicit target of about 2 percent and that unemployment, at 9.6 percent, was too high.
Inflation-protected Treasury securities have already been trading at negative yields on the open market for some time, as professional and institutional investors have sought to hedge their portfolios against the risk of inflation. But Monday was the first time since the government began selling these so-called Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities in the 1990s that new ones were sold at a negative yield.
Buyers ''believe we have reached the bottom of the inflation cycle and the next move is higher, not lower,'' said Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president for fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company.
A growing aversion to risk has produced all manner of investment oddities in the last two years. At the height of the financial crisis, for example, the yield on ordinary short-term Treasury bonds turned negative for a brief time as people flocked to safe investments.
Even now, big investors are buying gold at levels unseen in decades, to protect against fluctuations in the value of currencies. Small investors are fleeing the stock market in droves, favoring bonds and even cash over equities. Companies have managed to sell bonds that do not pay off for 50 or even 100 years.
The remarkable auction occurred as stock indexes on Wall Street edged higher, buoyed by recent strong corporate earnings and a month-to-month rise in housing sales.
Sales of previously owned houses increased 10 percent in September from August, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.53 million units, above forecasts of 4.30 million, but they were still down 19 percent from September 2009. The National Association of Realtors said about a third of the sales last month were related to foreclosures.
On Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 31.49 points, or 0.28 percent, to 11,164.05. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.54 points, or 0.21 percent, to 1,185.62.
The Nasdaq composite index climbed 11.46 points, or 0.46 percent, to 2,490.85.
Bond prices fell, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury rising to 2.56 percent from 2.55 percent late Friday.
As equities advanced, the dollar declined over the weekend after promises by the world's 20 biggest economies to avoid a currency war.
It was the latest sign that financial markets are positioning for a rise in inflation. Economists point to the fall in the dollar as a sign of budding inflationary pressures. Another is the recent sharp rise in the price of some assets, including commodities like gold.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Trading Above Face Value: The yield on Treasuries that are protected against inflation has turned negative, meaning that investors are paying more for the securities than their face value. (Source: Bloomberg) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); DEFLATION (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



736 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Battles a Repeat of '94 With a Twist on '08

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
BATTLE CREEK, Mich. -- There comes a point about five minutes into Bill Clinton's standard stump speech when he argues that this campaign is so important that it lured him out of retirement. ''I didn't need to do this,'' he said at a stop here over the weekend. ''I'm not in politics anymore. I run a big foundation.''
It is certainly true that the former president runs a big foundation focused on everything from fighting AIDS in Africa to rebuilding Haiti after its killer earthquake. But for a man who says he is not in politics anymore, he sure sounds a lot like someone deeply involved in politics -- and, truth be told, he seems to be loving every minute of it. 
By the time he arrived at a sweltering community college gymnasium here on Sunday night, the nation's 42nd president had already starred at 102 campaign events this season in a peripatetic journey across America to save the nation's 44th president from the same fate he endured 16 years ago. The 103rd event encapsulated his argument against a repeat of the 1994 midterm elections that cost his party control of Congress, and helped continue erasing sour memories of his last campaign foray two years ago.
This time, Mr. Clinton and Barack Obama are on the same side, but their roles are vastly different. Where Mr. Obama was the popular fresh figure in the party vanquishing the Clinton dynasty in 2008, today Mr. Clinton is the most popular politician on the campaign circuit coming to the rescue of an embattled president. Gone is the bitter party elder flummoxed at the success of an inexperienced upstart; back is the happy warrior rousing crowds, fighting again a battle he once lost and at the same time polishing his own legacy.
''I have to tell you, it's no secret that I did what I could to defeat President Obama, and I still like my secretary of state,'' Mr. Clinton told the crowd here at Battle Creek, which laughed appreciatively at the mention of his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton. But, he added, ''both he and the Congress have done a better job than most Americans think.''
Mr. Clinton sees Mr. Obama being in the same position he was in after two years in office; as he tells it, they both took painful actions to fix broken economies but it took time for Americans to feel the results. ''There's always a gap between when you start fixing things and when people feel fixed,'' he told a crowd earlier in the day in Ann Arbor, where he stumped for Representative John D. Dingell.
The frenetic campaigning brings Mr. Clinton full circle again in his perpetual cycle of defeat and comeback. After the incendiary comments and hard feelings among Democrats two years ago, Mr. Clinton is now perhaps his party's most sought-after campaigner, going to parts of the country where Mr. Obama does not venture these days, including Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Alabama, Mississippi and, on Monday, in his 105th event of the year, Texas.
Fifty-five percent of Americans viewed Mr. Clinton positively in a poll by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal last month, eight percentage points above Mr. Obama and the highest of 14 listed politicians or institutions.
''There's probably no one better in this day and time to bring out the Democratic base than Bill Clinton,'' said his longtime friend Skip Rutherford, dean of the Clinton School of Public Service at the University of Arkansas.
Associates said Mr. Clinton has gotten over the bruising battles with Mr. Obama. ''That's all way in the past,'' said Terry McAuliffe, the former Democratic National Committee chairman and one of his best friends. ''He'll do anything President Obama asks him to do.''
Still, Mr. Clinton is not particularly close to Mr. Obama. He coordinates with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., but makes his own decisions about whom to help. He has focused on aiding Democrats who endorsed Mrs. Clinton against Mr. Obama, like Representative Mark Schauer here in Battle Creek. Some Democrats call it a ''retribution tour''; aides said they think of it as a ''thank you tour.'' And Mr. Clinton has helped some who did not take her side, most noticeably Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, who is running for Senate.
Tellingly, Republicans save their fire when he comes to town. Ron Weiser, the Michigan Republican chairman, noted that Mr. Clinton drew a small crowd in Detroit on Sunday but the party mounted no counterattack. ''People have respect for him,'' Mr. Weiser said. He interpreted the campaign swing as good news for his side. ''They have to be getting concerned, even desperate, if they have to bring in a former president,'' he said.
For many Democrats, Mr. Clinton represents a period of peace and prosperity, and they overlook the scandals and political battles that scarred his presidency.
Martha Miller, a case manager at a homeless shelter who saw him in Battle Creek, said: ''Obviously, the personal stuff just became a horrific distraction and it was sad. But all of us were in better shape when he left office.''
At 64, Mr. Clinton maintains a brutal pace. On instructions from his daughter, Chelsea, he has lost about 25 pounds and is ''practically a vegan,'' as one aide put it. The weight loss makes him appear older, but he looks better in person than on television. At rally after rally, he summons the energy to charge up a crowd without a teleprompter or even a written text in sight.
Typically filled with statistics and details, his message focuses on the good things Mr. Obama has done, like making it easier to repay student loans, and the bad things he blames on Republicans, like posing as fiscal conservatives. Along the way, he offers a bit of a valedictory of his eight years in office.
''I almost gag when I hear these Republicans lambasting the president and the Democrats in Congress -- 'Oh, they're such big spenders, they're just crazy, they're quasi-socialists, they've gone hog-wild mad,' '' he said in Ann Arbor. ''I have a simple question: Who's the last president to give you a balanced budget?''
That is an answer he wants everyone to know.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Bill Clinton with Representative John D. Dingell on Sunday in Michigan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASSI ALEXANDRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (70%); AIDS & HIV (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN DINGELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



737 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: DIVIDE ON DEFICIT LIKELY TO GROW AFTER ELECTION

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A midterm campaign that has turned heavily on the issue of the mounting federal debt is likely to yield a government even more split over what to do about it, people in both parties say, with diminished Democrats and reinforced Republicans confronting internal divisions even as they dig in against the other side.
In the weeks after next Tuesday's elections, the White House and a lame-duck Congress will face immediate decisions testing the balance of power -- on extending the Bush-era tax rates, approving overdue spending bills to keep the government operating and, possibly, debating the recommendations that President Obama has directed a bipartisan debt-reduction commission to offer by December.
The report of the 18-member commission, which includes a dozen senior members of Congress, six from each party, will help determine whether a bipartisan consensus exists to deal with the unsustainable combination of fast-growing entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare and inadequate tax revenues. 
The group has delayed making decisions until after the election, to avoid leaks that would become campaign fodder, but even some of its members doubt they can muster the 14 votes needed to send a package to Congress for a vote; at best they hope options left on the table, or agreed to by the chairmen -- Erskine B. Bowles, a White House chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, and Alan K. Simpson, the former Republican Senate leader from Wyoming -- will find support in the spending-and-tax debates.
In interviews, a number of Democrats and Republicans agreed on one thing: For all the pre-election talk that a divided government could force the parties to work together, especially on cutting annual deficits, the opposite could just as well be true.
David Cote, the chief executive of Honeywell International and a member of the debt commission, said in an interview that ''the thing that shocked me'' was that the debt crisis had been predicted for decades because of the costs of federal benefits for the baby boom generation. ''We need to have a more thoughtful, nuanced discussion about what we're going to do and what exactly does this mean,'' Mr. Cote said. ''And I don't see that happening. It seems like everybody wants to just argue.''
Democrats are all but certain to lose a number of seats and perhaps their majorities. Most of the casualties will be fiscally conservative Democrats from Republican-leaning areas, leaving a smaller, more solidly liberal caucus less inclined to support cost-saving changes in future Social Security benefits, for example.
Republicans' ranks will almost certainly be strengthened by a wave of conservatives, including Tea Party loyalists, who are opposed to raising any taxes and to compromising with Democrats generally -- a stand Congressional Republican leaders have adopted. And incumbents otherwise inclined to make deals are now wary, Republicans say privately, mindful of colleagues who lost primary challenges from Tea Party candidates.
Both parties also face internal rifts that could hinder any grand bargain to reduce the annual deficits adding to the accumulated debt, which by decade's end will reach economically dangerous levels as more retirees claim Medicare and Social Security.
Most Republicans, especially those likely to be in Congress or running for president, are taking a hard line against tax increases, eager to court the Tea Party and antitax conservatives generally. But a growing minority is arguing that the projected debt is too great to shrink with spending cuts alone unless popular benefits and military programs are put under the knife.
''Everything has got to be on the table for discussion,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, who with Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, has formed a group of anti-deficit senators to promote the recommendations from the debt-reduction commission.
Given the coming influx of novice lawmakers, Mr. Chambliss said in an interview, ''there are a lot of things people are going to have to be educated about, on the spending side as well as the revenue side.'' He added: ''They're thinking we can come in and eliminate earmarks and everybody's going to be happy on the spending side. Gee, that just scratches the surface.''
Yet the conservative blowback was fierce this month after Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a budget director for President George W. Bush and a potential 2012 Republican presidential candidate, suggested keeping an open mind about a consumption tax like the value-added tax used in Europe and a tariff on imported oil.
That kind of reaction cannot be lost on others. Two Republicans on the fiscal commission are Representatives Dave Camp of Michigan and Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who are in line to lead the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee and the Budget Committee, respectively, if Republicans win a House majority. But they must be elected by other House Republicans in December and, Republicans say, a deal with Democrats on deficit-reduction measures could threaten that.
Democrats differ among themselves on whether to extend all the Bush tax cuts as Republicans demand, or just those for households with annual incomes below $250,000 as Mr. Obama wants. Over 10 years, an extension for the middle class would cost more than $3 trillion while extending rates for the rich, too, would cost $700 billion more; together the nearly $4 trillion is more than half the debt projected in the decade to 2020.
Many Democrats, backed by a wide range of economists, say that with unemployment stuck at nearly 10 percent, more stimulus spending is needed -- for the unemployed, struggling states and cities and job-creating public works projects -- before focusing on deficits. The fiscal commission is considering delaying any deficit-reduction proposals until perhaps 2012.
Democrats are also split on fixing Social Security's long-term solvency. Mr. Obama had wanted to tackle the issue early, and he created the debt commission by executive order -- after Senate Republicans blocked legislation -- partly in the hope that it would propose future benefit and payroll tax changes he could embrace. Some Democrats say he will have all the more reason to lead that charge after the elections, to signal a more centrist, fiscally conservative course. Yet liberal groups have already formed a big coalition to lobby against any such move.
What could result is ''deficit reduction by gridlock,'' said John Podesta, the president of the progressive Center for American Progress and a chief of staff in the Clinton White House.
That would be the outcome if Republicans, as expected, block additional unemployment aid and if the parties deadlock in the lame-duck session over pending appropriations and the Bush tax cuts that expire Dec. 31. That would leave lower spending levels in place for the fiscal year 2011 and force Mr. Obama and Republicans to try to reach a tax compromise next year.
But that sort of immediate deficit reduction, said Robert Greenstein, the founder of the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, ''will hurt the economy more than help it without doing very much to deal with the long-term problem, which is where the real issue is.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Tuesday with the continuation of an article about alternative approaches to the nation's fiscal policies misstated the political affiliation of Maya MacGuineas, an author of one of three federal budget plans that were compared. She is an independent, not a Republican. The headline for the chart also misstated the goals of two of the plans. While they all call for reducing the budget deficit, only one plan -- not all three -- would balance the federal budget by the year 2020. (That is the plan offered by former Senators Bill Bradley, John C. Danforth, Gary Hart and Bob Packwood.)

GRAPHIC: CHART: Highlights of Three Plans For Balancing the Budget by 2020 (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MEDICARE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%)

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (53%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (53%); HON (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: DAVID M COTE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERSKINE BOWLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



738 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: In California Campaign Ads, Texas Is Both a Role Model and the Enemy

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- In baseball, the San Francisco Giants and the Texas Rangers will meet in the World Series beginning Wednesday. In politics, California and the Lone Star State have been battling for a while.
At stake are both old-fashioned bragging rights and the fate of more specific issues, like California's landmark 2006 law that set limits on greenhouse gas emissions. A ballot measure next week would effectively suspend the law, if passed.
Much of the financial support for the measure, which is on the ballot as Proposition 23, has come from Texas-based oil companies. And those companies have become the target of an in-your-face advertising campaign against the proposition. 
In one commercial, a man is seen tied to a chair in a darkened room, surrounded by a number of sinister characters. A caption identifies the bad guys as ''Texas Oil;'' the bound man -- played by the actor David Arquette -- is labeled ''California.''
''So are you going to vote yes on Prop 23?'' one of the bad guys says.
''No,'' Mr. Arquette responds. He then slips his bonds and beats up several of his captors before a caption flashes onscreen.
''Don't Mess With California,'' it reads, a twist on the well-known Texas antilittering campaign. ''Vote No on Prop 23.''
The commercial is one several in California that have painted Texas as the enemy, including one featuring the president of the state chapter of the American Lung Association, Jane Warner, calling out two Texas-based companies -- Tesoro and Valero -- for supporting Proposition 23.
''These oil companies are putting this proposition on our ballot for their bottom line,'' she says. The ad ends with an image of a smoggy Los Angeles skyline and a child using an inhaler.
The interstate debate has also played a part in the California races for governor and United States senator, with Democrats and Republicans taking sharply different positions.
Meg Whitman, the Republican nominee for governor, who is trailing the Democrat Jerry Brown in polls in her bid to become the first woman to lead the state, names Texas in her stump speech as a fierce competitor for business and jobs, saying that Gov. Rick Perry of Texas comes to California to go ''hunting'' for companies. Ms. Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, also cites Texas as a place where there is no capital gains tax, something she would like to see in California.
In a television interview with the CBS affiliate in Sacramento, Ms. Whitman was asked if California should ''try to be more like Texas.''
''Texas isn't a perfect state on every dimension,'' she said, but it does ''have a much better business climate than we do.''
''They are creating jobs; they are attracting businesses from all over the country,'' Ms. Whitman said. ''And you know they are looking to California for jobs because they know in Texas taxes are lower, regulations are more streamlined, and they compete.''
Those comments are echoed by Carly Fiorina, the Republican who is challenging Senator Barbara Boxer. Ms. Fiorina says that Texas is ''fighting harder for our jobs.'' She also has a personal connection to the state: she was born in Texas and has family roots there, something she highlighted in a 2003 speech when she was the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard.
In the speech, Ms. Fiorina said that while her home was in California, ''I actually am a Texan.''
''I actually come from a long line of farmers and ranchers and Texas preachers,'' Ms. Fiorina said.
That the two states are at odds is not surprising. California, the nation's most-populous state, also has the largest economy, despite its recent problems, including chronic budget deficits and an unemployment rate of more than 12 percent. Texas is No. 2 in population and close behind California in economic muscle.
California's problems have given Texans a chance to crow. Governor Perry, a Republican, lists a number of favorable comparisons between his state and California on his campaign Web site, including a link to an article from Investor's Business Daily that ''explains that Texas is leaving California in the dust.''
''Texas is leading the country out of the recession,'' the article reads. ''California is holding it back.''
Mr. Perry's Web site also cites an October report from a conservative research group, the Texas Public Policy Foundation -- ''Competitive States 2010: Texas Versus California'' -- that outlined the economic advantages that Texas enjoyed over California. The report included data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that showed ''Texas had gained 129,000 new jobs in the last year -- more than half of the national total -- while California had lost 112,000.''
Democrats in California, meanwhile, have seized on Proposition 23 as a way to express home-state pride and -- maybe -- win some votes. Mr. Brown, a lifelong Californian who served as governor from 1975 to 1983, has attacked Texas oil companies in debates for their support of the ballot measure.
''They're putting up all the money,'' he said.
Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, who is running for lieutenant governor, has also made Texas an issue in the California campaign.
Last week, he staged a Texas-style barbecue in front of the Capitol in Sacramento ''to defend California's environment from Texas polluters.'' He has also filmed a ''Don't Mess With California'' commercial that attacks his Republican opponent, Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado, for his connections with energy companies.
In an interview, Mr. Newsom said he was ''sick of Californians being the butt of jokes'' about their economic woes. And while he said he did not hate Texas -- ''I don't have any animus, except for these oil companies.''
''The question is, 'Is Texas a better place?' '' Mr. Newsom said. ''And I would say not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaking at left, Garry Mauro, a former Texas land commissioner, with Gavin Newsom at a barbecue. Top, David Arquette in an anti-Texas ad. Above, Meg Whitman, left, and Carly Fiorina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BALLOTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); NETWORK TELEVISION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (84%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (84%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (89%); RICK PERRY (58%); JERRY BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010



739 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Can't Keep A Bad Idea Down

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I confess, I find it dispiriting to read the polls and see candidates, mostly Republicans, leading in various midterm races while promoting many of the very same ideas that got us into this mess. Am I hearing right?
Let's have more tax cuts, unlinked to any specific spending cuts and while we're still fighting two wars -- because that worked so well during the Bush years to make our economy strong and our deficit small. Let's immediately cut government spending, instead of phasing cuts in gradually, while we're still mired in a recession -- because that worked so well in the Great Depression. Let's roll back financial regulation -- because we've learned from experience that Wall Street can police itself and average Americans will never have to bail it out. 
Let's have no limits on corporate campaign spending so oil and coal companies can more easily and anonymously strip the Environmental Protection Agency of its powers to limit pollution in the air our kids breathe. Let's discriminate against gays and lesbians who want to join the military and fight for their country. Let's restrict immigration, because, after all, we don't live in a world where America's most important competitive advantage is its ability to attract the world's best brains. Let's repeal our limited health care reform rather than see what works and then fix it. Let's oppose the free-trade system that made us rich.
Let's kowtow even more to public service unions so they'll make even more money than private sector workers, so they'll give even more money to Democrats who will give them even more generous pensions, so not only California and New York will go bankrupt but every other state too. Let's pay for more tax cuts by uncovering waste I can't identify, fraud I haven't found and abuse that I'll get back to you on later.
All that's missing is any realistic diagnosis of where we are as a country and what we need to get back to sustainable growth. Actually, such a diagnosis has been done. A nonpartisan group of America's most distinguished engineers, scientists, educators and industrialists unveiled just such a study in the midst of this campaign.
Here is the story: In 2005 our National Academies responded to a call from a bipartisan group of senators to recommend 10 actions the federal government could take to enhance science and technology so America could successfully compete in the 21st century. Their response was published in a study, spearheaded by the industrialist Norman Augustine, titled ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future.''
Charles M. Vest, the former M.I.T. president, worked on the study and noted in a speech recently that ''Gathering Storm,'' together with work by the Council on Competitiveness, led to the America Competes Act of 2007, which increased funding for the basic science research that underlies our industrial economy. Other recommendations, like improving K-12 science education, were not substantively addressed.
So, on Sept. 23, the same group released a follow-up report: ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm Revisited: Rapidly Approaching Category 5.'' ''The subtitle, 'Rapidly Approaching Category 5,' says it all,'' noted Vest. ''The committee's conclusion is that 'in spite of the efforts of both those in government and the private sector, the outlook for America to compete for quality jobs has further deteriorated over the past five years.' ''
But I thought: ''We're number 1!''
''Here is a little dose of reality about where we actually rank today,'' says Vest: sixth in global innovation-based competitiveness, but 40th in rate of change over the last decade; 11th among industrialized nations in the fraction of 25- to 34-year-olds who have graduated from high school; 16th in college completion rate; 22nd in broadband Internet access; 24th in life expectancy at birth; 27th among developed nations in the proportion of college students receiving degrees in science or engineering; 48th in quality of K-12 math and science education; and 29th in the number of mobile phones per 100 people.
''This is not a pretty picture, and it cannot be wished away,'' said Vest. The study recommended a series of steps -- some that President Obama has already initiated, some that still need Congress's support -- designed to increase America's talent pool by vastly improving K-12 science and mathematics education, to reinforce long-term basic research, and to create the right tax and policy incentives so we can develop, recruit and retain the best and brightest students, scientists and engineers in the world. The goal is to make America the premier place to innovate and invest in innovation to create high-paying jobs.
You'll have to Google it, though. The report hasn't received 1/100th of the attention given to Juan Williams's remarks on Muslims.
A dysfunctional political system is one that knows the right answers but can't even discuss them rationally, let alone act on them, and one that devotes vastly more attention to cable TV preachers than to recommendations by its best scientists and engineers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (53%); IMMIGRATION (51%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



740 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Try to Plug a Dangerously Porous Border

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
ON THE SAUDI-YEMENI BORDER -- The five Yemeni men, all of them rail-thin, clutched their knees as they sat staring across the sand at the narrow road, which separates the Arab world's poorest country from its richest.
''They're waiting for us to move on,'' said the Saudi border guard with a weary smile, as he sat watching from the front seat of a gleaming S.U.V. ''Waiting so they can try to cross.''
This remote 1,100-mile frontier, once a casual crossing point for Bedouins and goats, has become an emblem of the increasingly global threats emanating from Yemen: fighters from Al Qaeda, Shiite insurgents, drugs and arms smuggling and, well under the world's radar, one of the largest flows of economic refugees on earth.
Every day hundreds of illegal migrants are caught and sent back to Yemen, Saudi officials say, including many who have come from Africa and across Yemen's deserts fleeing war and hunger. 
The porousness of the border is essential to Al Qaeda's Yemen-based branch, which has become a major terrorism concern for the United States as well as Arab countries. Al Qaeda draws recruits from Saudi Arabia, where they can cross and recross without being noticed, and it has sent militants across to try to kill Saudi leaders in their efforts to topple the oil-rich kingdom.
In response, the Saudi authorities have embarked on a multibillion-dollar effort to strengthen the border, evacuating scores of villages that once straddled it and building elaborate defense networks to keep intruders out.
Earthen berms now prevent cars from crossing, and layers of concertina wire line the roads, some of it strewn with the rags and dried blood of desperate migrants who still try to get through. Floodlights and thermal cameras focus on different parts of the border at night, and intelligence units stand ready to interrogate anyone who is deemed suspicious.
''They adapt very quickly to every strategy we have,'' said Lt. Muhammad Qahtani, a seven-year veteran of the border patrol. The migrants wear their shoes backward to confuse trackers, or strap sponges to their soles to leave no footprints at all. They trek through arid mountains where the border is loosely patrolled.
Many smugglers are heavily armed and will fight to the death when surrounded, Lieutenant Qahtani said, because they know convicted drug traffickers are usually beheaded in Saudi Arabia.
In some ways the border here resembles the one separating the United States from Mexico, another desert barrier between rich and poor nations.
But this border has become far more volatile lately. A year ago Yemeni rebels killed a Saudi border guard, setting off a short war that delivered a humiliating blow to the Saudis' well-financed but inexperienced military.
At least 133 Saudi soldiers were killed over three months, and the fighting raised alarms across the Sunni Arab world about the possibility that Iran might be supporting the Yemeni rebels -- who subscribe to an offshoot of Shiite Islam known as Zaydism -- and turning this border into another front for sectarian conflict.
Al Qaeda's Yemen-based branch has repeatedly boasted about its ability to infiltrate the border and outwit Saudi Arabia's network of informants in the area. Last year, a suicide bomber crossed here and later came close to assassinating Prince Muhammad bin Nayef, who runs Saudi Arabia's counterterrorism efforts. In October 2009, Yusef al-Shihri, a leading Qaeda operative who had been detained at Guantanamo Bay, was killed in a gun battle after crossing the border from Yemen disguised as a woman.
Border security here involves far more than fences and patrols. Some tribes straddle the border, and they -- and the Yemeni government -- protested fiercely when Saudi Arabia first began reinforcing the border in 2003, saying they needed free access for grazing. That dispute seems to have eased, and the Saudi government is now refining an old policy of subsidies to border tribes with a view to security, analysts say.
''The Saudis realize they need to work with tribal leaders and make sure their livelihood depends on how good they are at keeping the border safe,'' said Bernard Haykel, a professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton who has written extensively on Yemen and Saudi Arabia. ''There's also cross-border trade, and there is a debate inside Saudi Arabia now on how hard the border should be.''
In the past, many Yemenis complained that Saudi Arabia's support for various tribal and political figures in Yemen seemed aimed at keeping their southern neighbor divided and weak. Now, as Yemen's instability and the threat of terrorism grow worse, Saudi Arabia appears to be reassessing its approach to Yemen and its longtime president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, diplomats say.
''They are trying to be more systematic,'' said a Western diplomat in the Saudi capital, Riyadh. ''Their manipulations are now aimed at supporting Saleh, because he's the only game in town.''
The border was officially demarcated only in 2000. Much of it remained so informal that many villages on the border's western edge, near the Red Sea, were half-Yemeni, half-Saudi. Those days ended last year with the war, when the Saudi government evacuated 78 border villages and extended the network of fences it had begun building several years earlier.
The area is an eerie wasteland now -- scores of houses, some of them pockmarked with bullets from the war, sit empty and silent. At the top of the mountain where the fighting started last year, Saudi soldiers man a .50-caliber machine gun, gazing across at the unmarked ridges that form the border with Yemen.
Inside the border patrol headquarters in the port city of Jizan, photographs line the wall showing contraband captured by the patrol guards: truckloads of rocket-propelled grenades, huge bricks of hashish, stacks of machine guns.
Drug smuggling has risen by almost a third in the past two years, Saudi officials in Jizan say, with more than 7,000 pounds of hashish seized so far this year. The most dangerous smugglers of all are those who drive through the Empty Quarter, the Texas-size sand desert that dominates the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula, patrol officers say.
But far more numerous are the illegal migrants, hundreds of thousands of them annually in recent years. Most are caught and sent back to Yemen after being held in crowded border detention centers for a day or so. Many have crossed the sea to Yemen from Somalia or Ethiopia, risking death on rickety boats in shark-infested waters. Most of the survivors make the arduous journey through Yemen's arid mountains only to be turned back at the Saudi border.
''Some of them say, 'If you give me something to eat, I will go back,' '' said Lieutenant Qahtani, the border patrol officer. ''You can only feel pity for these men.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Saudi border guard scanned the border with Yemen near the Saudi city of Jizan. The Saudis look for refugees, smugglers and insurgents entering from the south.
 Yemeni men, seen through a wire barrier, watched and waited for a chance to enter Saudi Arabia through the desert border. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FAISAL MEHDI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) MAP: Guards near Jizan watch for drug smugglers and Al Qaeda. (A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (88%); REFUGEES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



741 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Spam Slows After Russia Investigates

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- You may not have noticed, but since late last month, the world supply of Viagra ads and other e-mail spam has dropped by an estimated one-fifth. With 200 billion spam messages in circulation each day, there is still plenty to go around.
But police officials in Russia, a major spam exporter, say they are trying to do their part to stem the flow. On Tuesday, police officials here announced a criminal investigation of a suspected spam kingpin, Igor A. Gusev. They said he had probably fled the country. 
Moscow police authorities said Mr. Gusev, 31, was a central figure in the operations of SpamIt.com, which paid spammers to promote online pharmacies, sometimes quite lewdly. SpamIt.com suddenly stopped operating on Sept. 27. With less financial incentive to send their junk mail, spammers curtailed their activity by an estimated 50 billion messages a day.
Why the site closed was unclear until Tuesday, when Moscow police officials met with reporters to discuss the Gusev case. The officials' actions were a departure from Russia's usual laissez faire approach to online crime.
They accuse Mr. Gusev of operating a pharmacy without a license and of failing to register a business. On Tuesday, they searched his apartment and office in Moscow, according to Lt. Yevdokiya F. Utenkova, an investigator in the economic crime division of the Moscow police department.
Lieutenant Utenkova said the search of the apartment turned up seven removable hard drives, four flash cards and three laptops. Specific, computer-crime related charges may follow after police examine their contents, she said. The investigation began Sept. 21, six days before SpamIt.com closed.
Mr. Gusev's lawyer, Vadim A. Kolosov, said in a telephone interview that his client was not the owner of SpamIt.com and had never sent spam e-mail, but declined to respond to specific questions.
The drop-off in spam since SpamIt.com went down had been noted by companies in the United States that monitor the Internet.
''We've seen a sustained drop in global volumes,'' Henry Stern, a senior security analyst at Cisco Systems, said in a telephone interview from San Francisco. The company pinpointed the closure of Mr. Gusev's site as the cause for this easing up.
If individual computer users have not noticed changes in spam traffic, it may be because many people have learned to use spam filters that insulate them from the junk that continuously circulates on the Internet.
Kaspersky Lab, an antivirus company based in Moscow, said there had been a notable drop in mass e-mail in the United States that advertised prescription drugs -- to about 41 percent of all spam at the end of the September from 65 percent at the beginning of the month. The figures are comparable in Western Europe, the company said. Many of the pharmaceuticals sold through Web sites promoted by spammers are believed to be counterfeit.
Other computer security companies had reported similar reductions in prescription drug spam, although they cautioned that spam volumes were volatile and often spring back to previous high levels. On a typical day, spam accounts for about 90 percent of all e-mail traffic on the Internet.
Mr. Gusev and SpamIt.com have been widely known in computer security circles, and he had lived openly in Moscow. Spamhaus, an international nonprofit that monitors global spam, listed the SpamIt.com organization as the world's single largest sponsor of spam.
Last year, the Russian-language version of Newsweek reported that Mr. Gusev's sites were connected to the same computer server farm in St. Petersburg, Russia, called Russian Business Networks, that was identified in a 2009 report by online security experts with NATO as a source of the attacks on Georgia in 2008.
Mr. Gusev filed suit against Newsweek in a Moscow court, denying links to spamming suggested in the article. That case is still pending. In that suit, he cited phone calls from The New York Times to his lawyer seeking comment as evidence that the article harmed his reputation.
Why, after years of ignoring spammers, Russian authorities have now acted has left online security experts puzzled.
SpamIt.com had operated in a gray area of Russian law, cybersecurity researchers said. They said it had paid commissions to other parties that had directed traffic to various sites operating under the name Canadian Pharmacy, using a Russian online settlement system. Mr. Gusev has denied in blog posts that he promoted spam.
The spammers, meanwhile, operated entirely in the shadows, using networks of computers that had been remotely infected with viruses, known as botnets, and turning them into relay stations for sending e-mail from anywhere in the world.
Some American security experts have said that the spamming operation in Russia appears to have been protected by Russian authorities -- whether for reasons of corruption, national pride or state security.
Because most victims of online crime, and the targets of unwanted spam advertising, are in Europe and the United States, Russian police have typically seen little incentive to prosecute online crime, analysts say.
But recently, President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia has been seeking to expand and legitimize the domestic Russian Internet industry -- and move it away from its reputation as a playground for hackers, pornographers and authors of darkly ingenious viruses.
In June, Mr. Medvedev visited California to meet with Silicon Valley executives. The SpamIt.com site closed two weeks before the reciprocal Silicon Valley trade delegation, led by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, arrived in Moscow on Oct. 10.
Computer security researchers have conjectured that spamming gangs have sometimes been co-opted by the intelligence agencies in Russia, which provide cover for the spamming activities in exchange for the criminals' expertise or for allowing their networks of virus-infected computers to be used for political purposes -- to crash dissident Web sites, for example, or to foster attacks on foreign adversaries.
The Russian government has denied orchestrating computer attacks beyond its borders.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Less of the Loathed: Spam levels have fallen in the last few months, in part because a payment site for spammers was shut down in Russia in September. (Source: Cisco Systems) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (93%); POLICE FORCES (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (88%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERNET CRIME (76%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (75%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (74%); PHARMACIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); HARD DRIVES (50%); ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%); LABORATORIYA KASPERSKOGO ZAO (51%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



742 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Acne Cream? Tax-Sheltered. Breast Pump? No.

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Denture wearers will get a tax break on the cost of adhesives to keep their false teeth in place. So will acne sufferers who buy pimple creams.
People whose children have severe allergies might even be allowed the break for replacing grass with artificial turf since it could be considered a medical expense.
But nursing mothers will not be allowed to use their tax-sheltered health care accounts to pay for breast pumps and other supplies.
That is because the Internal Revenue Service has ruled that breast-feeding does not have enough health benefits to quality as a form of medical care. 
With all the changes the health care overhaul will bring in the coming years, it nonetheless will leave those regulations intact when new rules for flexible spending accounts go into effect in January. Those allow millions of Americans to set aside part of their pretax earnings to pay for unreimbursed medical expenses.
While breast-feeding supplies weren't allowed under the old regulations either, one major goal of the health care overhaul was to control medical costs by encouraging preventive procedures like immunizations and screenings.
Despite a growing body of research indicating that the antibodies passed from mother to child in breast milk could reduce disease among infants -- including one recent study that found it could prevent the premature death of 900 babies a year -- the I.R.S. has denied a request from the American Academy of Pediatrics to reclassify breast-feeding costs as a medical care expense.
In some respects, the biggest roadblock for mothers' groups and advocates of breast-feeding is one of their central arguments: nursing a child is beneficial because it is natural.
I.R.S. officials say they consider breast milk a food that can promote good health, the same way that eating citrus fruit can prevent scurvy. But because the I.R.S. code considers nutrition a necessity rather than a medical condition, the agency's analysts view the cost of breast pumps, bottles and pads as no more deserving of a tax break than an orange juicer.
Many mothers' groups and medical experts say that breast milk provides nutrition and natural supplements that prevent disease, and would like to see its use expanded. Hospital accreditation groups have been prodding maternity wards to encourage parents to feed only breast milk until a child is 6 months old.
The new health law does include one breakthrough for nursing mothers, a mandate that they be permitted unpaid breaks to use breast pumps. Spurned by tax authorities, breast-feeding advocates say they will return to Congress to get a tax break, too.
''There's been a lot of progress in the past few years making the public, the medical establishment and even Congress recognize the health benefits of breast-feeding,'' said Melissa Bonghi, a lactation consultant in Bainbridge Island, Wash. ''But I guess the I.R.S. will just take a little longer.''
With the new regulations set to take effect in two months, millions of American workers now in the open enrollment period at their employers have to determine whether, and how much, to set aside for 2011. More than 20 million people have flexible spending or other tax-exempt health care savings accounts, and the programs are projected to cost the federal Treasury about $3.8 billion this year and $68 billion over the next decade.
The most far-reaching change involves over-the-counter medicines. Since 2003, most of them have been eligible expenses, making flexible spending accounts so popular that some plans issued debit cards that allowed users to make purchases without having to file for reimbursement later.
As of Jan. 1, however, over-the-counter medications -- including allergy remedies, cough suppressants or even pain relievers like aspirin or ibuprofen -- will be eligible only if they are prescribed by a doctor. That change is so drastic that the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, which represents 37,000 pharmacies, last week asked the I.R.S. for a two-year delay in that regulation, to allow merchants to recalibrate the computer systems that determine which products are eligible for purchase with flexible spending account debit cards.
Many factors, including the length of maternity leave, affect how long a woman breast-feeds.
According to a survey by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about 75 percent of the 4.3 million mothers who gave birth in 2007 started breast-feeding. By the time the baby was 6 months old, the portion dropped to 43 percent, and on the child's first birthday, to 22 percent.
A study released this year by Harvard Medical School concluded that if 90 percent of mothers followed the standard medical advice of feeding infants only breast milk for their first six months, the United States could save $13 billion a year in health care costs and prevent the premature deaths of 900 infants each year from respiratory illness and other infections.
''The old adage that breast-feeding is a child's first immunization really is true,'' said Dr. Robert W. Block, president-elect of the American Academy of Pediatrics. ''So we need to do everything we can to remove the barriers that make it difficult.''
To continue breast-feeding once they return to work, many mothers need to use pumps to extract milk, which can be chilled and bottle-fed to the child later. The cost of buying or renting a breast pump and the various accessories needed to store milk runs about $500 to $1,000 for most mothers over the course of a year, according to the United States Breastfeeding Committee, a nonprofit advocacy group. Lactation consultants, who can cost several hundred dollars, also would not be an eligible expense.
Roy Ramthun, a former Treasury Department official, said that tax officials' reluctance to classify those costs as medical expenses stemmed from a fear that the program might be abused.
''They get very uneasy about anything that smacks of food because they fear it will open up all sorts of exceptions,'' said Mr. Ramthun, who runs a consulting company that specializes in health savings accounts. ''It's a matter of cost and of protecting the integrity of the tax code.''
Bills introduced last year by Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, and Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, would have allowed nursing mothers to claim the tax break. But breast-feeding advocates say that effort, like many before, was undone by economic and cultural factors.
''Everyone says they support breast-feeding, but getting businesses and Congress to act on it has been surprisingly difficult,'' said Barbara Emanuel, executive director of the breast-feeding advocacy group La Leche League International. ''We get resistance from the formula companies and cultural resistance, so it can be hard to get nursing mothers the support that everyone agrees they deserve.''
Unless the law changes, some mothers may ask their pediatricians for a note that breast-feeding is medically necessary. Jody L. Dietel, who works for a company that processes claims from flexible spending accounts, says that many patients who receive orthodontic procedures have used such a tactic.
''Orthodontia is really so you have nice, straight teeth,'' said Ms. Dietel, chief compliance officer for WageWorks. ''But the doctors write notes warning that the patient's jaw might be damaged without treatment or their overbite could cause health problems, and it becomes an eligible expense. For breast-feeding there are two components, too: nutritional and preventative medicine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A breast pump and various accessories can run about $500 to $1,000 for most mothers a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ACNE (92%); BREASTFEEDING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PARENTING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); ALLERGIES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (62%); ACCREDITATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



743 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: The Double-Edged Rupee

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
COIMBATORE, India -- As talk of currency battles rumble through the global economy, India has been a reluctant warrior.
The reasons are evident here in Coimbatore, a southern city long known as a capital of India's textile industry, an old-line export trade. Recently, demolition crews razed an abandoned textile mill to make way for the Alliance Mall.
From the ashes of an export industry rises a temple to foreign investment and local consumption. And it is all in keeping with India's approach to a rising currency.
The Indian rupee is soaring -- up 9 percent against the dollar in the last 16 months. That has taken a toll on exports like textiles by making them more expensive on the world market. And the strong rupee poses longer-term threats of overheating the economy. 
But instead of fighting currency appreciation, as Brazil and some other countries have done, India has been willing to let the rupee rise -- for now, at least.
India is simply too hungry for the foreign capital that is drawn to the strong rupee and is driving it higher, because that influx of money is helping support this country's approach to developing a modern consumer economy.
The Alliance project, with more than a million square feet of retail space, a hotel, offices and condominiums, is being built by an Indian developer with financing from a British retail company and a South African investment firm.
Meanwhile, the foreign carmakers Volkswagen and Nissan have started their first dealerships, hoping to capitalize on the growing consumer class in this city of about 1.5 million people.
The clear losers of India's currency approach right now are garment makers. From April to August, exports were down 6.4 percent from a year earlier in the $10 billion Indian clothing industry. Although it represents only about 1 percent of the nation's economy, the garment industry is India's largest employer after agriculture.
''All the other countries are protecting their currencies, so why are we not?'' said Premal Udani, chairman of India's Apparel Export Promotion Council.
Indian policy makers are eager enough for foreign investment that, for now at least, they are willing to endure the damage a stronger rupee inflicts on exports, especially for lower-value goods like clothes. Exports of other Indian goods and services, like software and pharmaceuticals, have not been as hard hit because they are not as price-sensitive.
India also places a premium on the higher-value jobs that are fueled by foreign investment. Not far from where that old textile mill once stood, the German engineering company Bosch and the American software concern Perot Systems have opened offices in a new technology park.
The influx of capital has helped fuel a nearly 9 percent annual growth rate for India's economy. It has also powered the Indian stock market to near record highs. A big beneficiary of the stock rally has been the government, which is selling shares in state-owned firms like Coal India, the world's largest coal miner.
The government, which has a large budget deficit, plans to raise $9 billion in the current fiscal year from share sales and spend the money on jobs for the rural poor and other welfare programs. A stronger rupee also reduces India's bill for commodities, like oil, that it needs to import.
''If India is to sustain 8 percent growth or 9 percent growth, the only constraint on that can be capital,'' said Nikhil Chaturvedi, managing director of Prozone, the Indian real estate firm that is building the Alliance Mall development. ''Free flow of capital should be allowed in all sectors'' of the economy, he said.
Mr. Chaturvedi, whose joint venture partner in the Alliance Mall is the London-based Capital Shopping Centers, said an appreciating rupee must be tolerated as an unpleasant side effect of the flow of foreign capital.
India's willingness to let a rising currency stimulate its consumer economy is what many experts say that another emerging giant, China, should be doing -- not only for the good of China's people but to ease global trade and currency tensions. And yet, while that part of the model might be worth Beijing's emulating, India in turn can only envy the strength of China's export juggernaut.
China, which has been wary of letting its currency rise too much relative to the dollar, has one of the world's largest surpluses in its current account -- the broadest measure of a country's trade and capital flows. India, meanwhile, has the fourth-biggest current-account deficit among the G-20 nations, amounting to 3.1 percent of its gross domestic product.
That places India just behind the United States, which has the third-highest deficit, on a side of the trade ledger no vibrant economy aspires to be.
Over the long term, India needs to pare that deficit and reduce its reliance on foreign capital, which can be fickle. During the recent financial crisis, for example, foreign investors pulled back sharply from India and other emerging markets, helping to temporarily put the brakes on the economy here.
The current-account deficit is partly reflected in the declining fortunes of India's garment exporters.
About 34 miles east of Coimbatore, in the city of Tiruppur, clothing factory owners and workers say the strong rupee is causing them to lose orders to competitors in China, Bangladesh and other countries that peg their currency to the United States dollar and thus are able to offer much lower-priced clothes to Wal-Mart, H&M and other western buyers.
M. Sivasubramaniam, the owner of a textile printing factory in Tiruppur, employs about 70 people -- one-third fewer than a year ago. One recent morning, workers trickled into the factory after a long tea break. Their job was to print several varieties of T-shirts, including one with an image of the cartoon character Bart Simpson kicking a soccer ball.
S. Anand, a print machine operator and the son of a rice farmer, said work was so slow that he was making only about 5,000 rupees ($113) a month, down from 7,000 rupees a year ago when he had the opportunity to work more overtime shifts. But Mr. Anand, who supports a wife and two children, is still better off than many of his co-workers who have lost their jobs.
The industry is trying to compensate by focusing on the domestic market and producing more fashionable clothes that command higher prices. But Mr. Udani of the export council said neither effort would quickly offset the decline in exports of mass-market clothes.
Whatever the Indian government's strategic motives for letting the rupee rise, it also knows the risks of trying to intervene.
In 2007, for instance the country's central bank tried to stem the currency's rise by buying dollars and selling rupees. The bank tried to soak up the rupees by issuing bonds. But economists say that the tactic was not entirely successful and that its currency intervention helped stoke domestic inflation. The benchmark wholesale inflation rate hit 11 percent in mid-2008.
Prices are a big concern again -- wholesale inflation was nearly 9 percent in September -- and policy makers are reluctant to do anything to make it worse, economists say.
Still, there may be limits to how long the government would stand by if a lot more foreign capital floods into the country and the rupee rises significantly higher.
In a recent speech, Duvvuri Subbarao, the central bank's governor, said the bank would intervene in currency markets if capital flows became ''lumpy and volatile or if they disrupt the macroeconomic situation.''
''Two considerations have guided our policy,'' he said. ''First that, our policy should be as stable as possible without flip-flop moves. Second, our use of controls should be prudent.''
Officials could try to balance the need for capital and the concerns of exporters by regulating the flow of money, said Rajiv B. Lall, chief executive of the Infrastructure Development Finance Company in Mumbai.
They could force investors to commit investments to longer-term projects, by making it harder to invest in stock and real estate markets, which tend to attract ''hot money'' that flows in and out countries quickly as sentiments change.
That would also slow the rise of the rupee, giving exporters time to adapt to a stronger rupee, Mr. Lall said. ''I don't think anybody would have problem with the appreciation of the rupee over the long term,'' Mr. Lall said. The problem is ''the volatility and the mismatch between that and the rest of the economy's ability to keep adjusting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A strong currency hurts India's clothing export industry, but it attracts foreign capital, which supports development. (B1)
A shopping mall under development in Coimbatore, India. A booming economy, fed by foreign capital, is sending the country's currency ever higher. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Stronger Rupee: The rising value of the Indian rupee relative to the dollar in the last 16 months may be slowing the growth of exports from India. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Indian Department of Commerce (via Haver Analytics)) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); TEXTILES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); APPAREL MFG (88%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%)

COMPANY: DELL PEROT SYSTEMS CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



744 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Needing Students, Maine School Hunts in China

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
MILLINOCKET, Me. -- Faced with dropping enrollment and revenue, the high school in this remote Maine town has fixed on an unlikely source of salvation: Chinese teenagers.
Never mind that Millinocket is an hour's drive from the nearest mall or movie theater, or that it gets an average 93 inches of snow a year. Kenneth Smith, the schools superintendent, is so certain that Chinese students will eventually arrive by the dozen -- paying $27,000 a year in tuition, room and board -- that he is scouting vacant properties to convert to dormitories.
''We are going full-bore,'' Dr. Smith said last week in his office at the school, Stearns High, where the Chinese words for ''hello'' and ''welcome'' were displayed on the dry-erase board and a Lonely Planet China travel guide sat on the conference table. ''You've got to move if you've got something you believe is the right thing to do.'' 
On Friday, Dr. Smith left for China, where he is spending a week pitching Stearns High to school officials, parents and students in Beijing, Shanghai and two other cities. He has hired a consultant to help him make connections in China, lobbied Millinocket's elected officials and business owners to embrace the plan and even directed the school's cafeteria workers to add Chinese food to the menu.
''We get some commodity pasta, and it makes a great lo mein,'' said Kathy Civiello, the school's nutrition director, one of the many staff members who appeared equally excited and bemused by the plan.
With China's emergence as an economic juggernaut, colleges, universities and private secondary schools have tried to recruit students from China and have even opened campuses there. But Millinocket's plan may be unprecedented among public schools, even as they scramble for new sources of revenue.
''This is the first we've even heard of it,'' said Alexis Rice, a spokeswoman for the National School Boards Association.
There is one hitch. Under State Department rules, foreign students can attend public high school in the United States for only a year, a system that Dr. Smith considers unfair, given that they can attend private high schools for four years. He is pressing Maine's Congressional delegation to seek a change, but in the meantime, he intends to recruit a handful of Chinese students to attend Stearns next year.
They would come to Millinocket for a year, Dr. Smith said, then perhaps transfer to a private school or enroll in an American college or university.
Dr. Smith, a native of Maine who has traveled outside New England only rarely, conceded he did not know much about China. But from what he had heard and read in recent months, he said, two things were clear: China had a large middle class with money to spend, and its students wanted to study here.
''They want to learn English, and they want a college education,'' he said. ''If we can get them into a college here, they will have achieved their major goal.''
Dr. Smith is so certain of success that it almost feels wrong to ask: Why would Chinese parents spend $27,000 to send their children to Stearns High, which is housed in a 1960s building, has only one Advanced Placement course and classroom maps so outdated they still show the Soviet Union, and where more than half of the 200 students are poor enough to qualify for free lunch?
''Our performing arts program is one of the best anywhere,'' Dr. Smith said. ''We have a tremendous music department and small classes with plenty of room. In China, you're elbow to elbow.''
Fair enough. But why Millinocket, a town of 5,000 about 200 miles north of Portland, Me., that fell on hard times after its paper mill filed for bankruptcy in 2003? Vacant storefronts pock Penobscot Avenue, the main street, and the most popular hangout for teenagers is a supermarket parking lot.
''We're a community full of assets,'' Dr. Smith said, pointing to Mount Katahdin, Maine's highest peak, which looms just beyond the town, and the abundant hunting, fishing and snow sport opportunities that the locals love. ''There's the beauty, No. 1, and the fresh air. And the roads are good.''
Terry Given, an English teacher who was born here, was more blunt.
''I don't want to sound flip,'' Ms. Given said, ''but why not? We won't know until we get the opportunity to know them and give them the opportunity to know us. There's something to be said for putting ourselves out there to see if we can be the prize that's claimed.''
At a time when shrinking budgets are forcing some public schools to require students to provide basic supplies like paper towels and soap, looking abroad for financial help may be an act of self-preservation. The enrollment at Stearns has fallen from about 700 students in the 1970s, when the paper mill provided hundreds of jobs. Over all, the number of students in all of Millinocket's schools has dropped 43 percent since 2000, to 550 from 959.
Around the country, public schools can legally charge tuition to students who do not live in the district. Dr. Smith is basing the $27,000 fee on the district's average spending per student, about $13,000 a year. He said $14,000 seemed reasonable for room and board based on what the state's private schools charge for it.
Private schools, of course, have drawn students from abroad for decades, and a number of them in New England have recruited heavily from Asia in recent years.
''All of a sudden they have 60 Chinese kids in these tiny villages in Vermont,'' said Suzanne Fox, the consultant who is working with Dr. Smith.
Ms. Fox, whose company, Fox Intercultural Consulting Services, helps businesses and schools build connections in China, said she had persuaded Dr. Smith to start slowly.
''I've had to rein him in a little bit,'' Ms. Fox said, adding that his new goal was to recruit perhaps five students next fall instead of 100.
In the coming months, Ms. Fox will make frequent trips to Millinocket to teach students, teachers and community leaders about Chinese culture. The town is virtually all-white, though it has hosted traditional exchange students who come for a year without paying tuition.
''We're pretty vanilla,'' Ms. Given said. ''Because we lack diversity, those who bring it into the community stick out like sore thumbs.''
Dr. Smith has also sought advice from a Chinese exchange student who he said was spending the year ''with the undertaker's family'' in neighboring East Millinocket.
''I asked her what she most wanted to do while she was here,'' he said. ''She told me she wanted to go to Florida and see Disney World, go to Boston and shop, and climb the mountain.''
That would be Mount Katahdin. The school system owns a cabin at its base, which Dr. Smith hopes to use for weekend retreats, where Millinocket students can get to know their Chinese classmates. Students here seemed enthusiastic about the plan, though some, having heard that Chinese teenagers were academically driven, feared that their class ranking would slip.
Others said the school was the town's social hub, its football games and musicals drawing crowds. Matthew Preble, 17, said he would welcome Chinese students but wondered whether Millinocket would feel the same.
''We're used to Stearns High School being a small hometown type of thing,'' he said. ''The fact that suddenly we might have up to hundreds of kids from China might change that -- in a good way, but we're also kind of scared to lose our town.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenneth Smith, the superintendent in Millinocket, Me., at the Great Wall of China on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DU BIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Some 200 students are enrolled this year at Stearns High School in Millinocket, Me. In the 1970s, it had about 700.
 The intersection of Katahdin and Penobscot Avenues, with Mount Katahdin, Maine's highest peak, in the background. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); RURAL SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); STUDENT EXPENSES (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); LOBBYING (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) MAINE, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



745 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Shares End Mixed on Disappointing Earnings

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed on Tuesday as some earnings reports disappointed investors.
Kimberly-Clark, the consumer products company that makes Huggies diapers and Kleenex tissues, lost 5.8 percent as profit dropped amid higher costs for materials. United States Steel tumbled 3.4 percent after a surprise quarterly loss because of repair costs. I.B.M. rose 0.6 percent after its board authorized buying back as much as $10 billion in shares.
About eight stocks retreated for every seven that rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was virtually unchanged, ending at 1,185.64. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.41 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,169.46, and the Nasdaq was up 6.44 points, or 0.26 percent, to 2,497.29. 
''We've had some modestly disappointing earnings reports from a couple of bellwether companies such as U.S. Steel,'' said Dean Gulis, a money manager for Loomis Sayles & Company. ''The earnings environment is a little less buoyant than it has been, and people are using the opportunity to consolidate their positions after a strong run.''
Wall Street strategists have reduced their recommended investment allocations of stock amid the recent rally that has driven the market up from lows it hit in July. Strategists currently advise an average 57.7 percent of assets be put in stocks, down from 60 percent in September and 61 percent in August and July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
United States Steel dropped $1.42 to $40.85 after it posted a third-quarter loss because of $86 million in repair costs. Excluding a one-time currency gain and an asset sale, the loss was $1.21 a share, which compared with an average estimate for profit of 23 cents from 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales increased 60 percent, to $4.5 billion from $2.82 billion.
Kimberly-Clark fell $3.86 to $62.61 after reporting a 19 percent decline in third-quarter profit as commodity costs increased. Shares of companies that make consumer staples slumped 0.4 percent.
''Although market conditions have improved in recent weeks, an air of uncertainty persists, with the future direction of the economy remaining cloudy,'' Bob Doll, vice chairman of BlackRock, said in his weekly market commentary. ''Equity markets continue to price in modest economic recovery. One key issue for stocks in the year ahead will be whether corporate earnings are able to hold up in the face of slow nominal growth.''
Texas Instruments, the chip maker, dropped 10 cents to $28.88. On Monday after the markets closed, the company forecast fourth-quarter revenue of $3.36 billion to $3.64 billion and cited a slowdown in consumer-electronics spending.
Indexes had gained ground early in the day after the Conference Board's consumer confidence index increased to 50.2 from a revised 48.6 in September. The proportion of people who said jobs were plentiful fell to the lowest level this year and income expectations were the weakest since April 2009.
Meanwhile, home prices continued to weaken around the country, even in metro areas that were showing strength earlier in the year. The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller 20-city home price index fell 0.2 percent in August from July. Fifteen of the cities showed monthly price declines.
''It's coming down to company earnings and individual stock selection now,'' said Don Wordell, a fund manager for Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital Management. ''The market has clearly priced in the macro variables.''
Shares of retailers, hotel operators, restaurant companies and others companies that rely on discretionary consumer spending climbed 1.1 percent collectively for the biggest advance among 10 groups in the S.& P. 500.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 21/32, to 99 28/32. The yield rose to 2.64 percent, from 2.56 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Home prices continued to decline around the country in August, an economic report showed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICA BROUGH/THE GAINESVILLE SUN) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (60%)

COMPANY: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (85%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (58%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%)

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (85%); X (NYSE) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (85%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



746 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Ford Posts 6th Quarter Of Profit In a Row

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A surge in third-quarter profit is the best evidence yet that the Ford Motor Company has moved into a period of sustained growth -- further distinguishing itself from rivals despite a weak economy and slack overall demand.
Ford said Tuesday that it earned a better-than-expected $1.7 billion in the quarter, and was gaining market share at the same time that it took steps to further shrink its debt. It was the automaker's sixth consecutive profitable quarter, and its best third-quarter performance in more than 20 years. 
Industry analysts said Ford was benefiting from the introduction of new models and broad improvements to its vehicle lineup. As the only American automaker to survive the recession without needing government bailouts, Ford has also avoided the tumult of bankruptcy still playing out at General Motors and Chrysler.
''There are a lot of really good things going on there,'' said David Whiston, an analyst with Morningstar Equity Research in Chicago. ''They are making products that people want to pay more for.''
Alan R. Mulally, chief executive of Ford, said the vehicle improvements had allowed the automaker to charge higher prices for new cars like its Fiesta subcompact.
''We have moved into a new chapter for Ford: building cars and trucks people really want and value, and continuously improving our quality and productivity,'' Mr. Mulally said in an e-mail.
Ford said it was on track to gain market share in the United States for the second consecutive year -- the first time that has happened since the early 1990s. The company's share in the third quarter was 15.9 percent, compared with 14.6 percent a year ago.
Though it avoided bankruptcy, Ford posted a $14.8 billion annual loss in 2008, the biggest in its history.
Its turnaround has happened faster than predicted. Two years ago, Mr. Mulally pledged that Ford would be consistently profitable by 2011. But the company has beaten that goal by earning $6.3 billion so far this year.
Now Ford is setting its sights on expanding its operations overseas, particularly in China, India and Brazil. The company said it expected to be solidly profitable in all regions of the world, including Europe, by next year.
There are hurdles ahead. Ford is playing catch-up to bigger rivals like General Motors and Volkswagen in the intensely competitive Chinese market. The company must also improve its Lincoln division to replace sales lost when it divested itself of the foreign luxury brands Volvo, Jaguar and Land Rover.
And on the horizon, Ford has to negotiate a new contract with the United Automobile Workers next year without the benefit of a no-strike clause, which both G.M. and Chrysler have as a result of their trips through bankruptcy.
Nonetheless, Ford's string of successful quarters, industry analysts said, has validated the vision of Mr. Mulally, who joined the automaker from Boeing in 2006.
At the time, he urged the organization to focus on the Ford brand, increase the overall quality of its vehicles, and accelerate the shift from a truck-heavy lineup to one with more fuel-efficient passenger cars.
With those efforts now showing solid results in the marketplace, Mr. Mulally is said to be raising the bar internally.
At a meeting of Ford's top 300 global executives a few months ago, Mr. Mulally challenged his team to move beyond fixing the company to expanding Ford's business worldwide.
''We want to grow the business but continue to relentlessly improve the operational excellence of each part of the company,'' said Lewis Booth, Ford's chief financial officer.
The biggest contributors to third-quarter earnings were North American operations, which posted a $1.6 billion pretax profit, and South America, which earned $241 million. The Asia-Pacific-Africa region reported a $30 million profit, while European operations lost $196 million in the quarter. Over all, the third-quarter profit this year was a 68 percent improvement over the same quarter last year.
An impressive aspect of Ford's results reported Tuesday is how it has been able to steadily reduce its debt while still pouring money into new products.
The company said that it recently paid down its credit line by $2 billion, and planned to make a payment of $3.6 billion this week into the health care trust for retired union workers.
After the trust payment is made, Ford's total debt will be down to $22.8 billion, compared with $33.6 billion at the end of last year. The reduction of $10.8 billion will save the company an estimated $800 million in annual interest payments.
''Eight hundred million -- that's almost the cost of a product program,'' said Mr. Booth, the chief financial officer.
Even with the debt payments, Ford has built a sizable cash cushion to draw on in the event of another economic crisis. The company said that it would have more than $20 billion in cash after its payout to the retiree health care fund.
Three months ago, Ford said it would eliminate its net debt by the end of 2011. Its high debt load has been a concern to many analysts. The last time Ford had more cash than debt was in mid-2008, before the recession began and auto sales collapsed.
The company declined on Tuesday to make any projections for the overall American vehicle market for 2011. Mr. Booth said he expected the recovery in auto sales to be gradual, as it had been throughout this year. ''We've seen modest improvement in the U.S. each quarter and we hope that continues,'' he said.
Ford's rivals in Detroit do not report their third-quarter earnings until next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STRIKES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); BAILOUTS (72%); EQUITY RESEARCH (70%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



747 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Outweigh Successes

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On the evening of Dec. 3 last year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics sent an advance copy of the next morning's jobs report to the White House. It's standard procedure for top White House and Federal Reserve officials to get an early look at the numbers, but there was nothing standard about this particular report.
It showed that job losses had all but stopped in November, after nearly two years of big declines. White House aides exulted. Christina Romer, a top economist, brought a copy of the numbers to the Oval Office, and President Obama embraced her. A photograph of the moment, with a Christmas tree off to the side, was hung in the office of the Council of Economic Advisers. The good news -- and the optimism -- would continue for the next few months. 
Today, that brief period of optimism looks like one of the worst things that could have happened to the White House, other Democrats and, above all, the economy. The nascent recovery removed the urgency that the Obama administration and Democratic senators felt in early 2009. They still favored more action, like aid to states and tax cuts, but it was no longer their top priority.
They assumed a recovery was under way.
We now know, of course, that the recovery has stalled. From November of last year -- the month whose job report brought cheer to the White House -- to May, the economy added almost one million jobs, thanks partly to census hiring. Since May, almost 400,000 jobs have disappeared.
More than anything else, that change explains the midterm losses that Democrats are bracing for next week.
''The main determination that the press and the public make about the president is not really liberal or conservative,'' Michael Gerson, President George W. Bush's former chief speechwriter, said in March. ''It's strong or weak.'' Back in the spring, job growth was picking up, the health care bill had passed and Mr. Obama looked strong. Today, he does not.
None of this means that the White House and Congress have wasted the last two years, as some on the left have charged, or enacted a radical agenda, as some on the right claim. Mr. Obama has in many ways been a moderate. He cut taxes and demanded more accountability from schools. He neither nationalized the banks nor pushed hard for the so-called card check bill, which unions believe would expand their membership and which conservatives hate.
At the same time, he and Congressional leaders did succeed where Presidents Harry Truman, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton all failed: putting the country on a path to universal health insurance coverage. The White House and Congress also toughened regulations on Wall Street and increased funding for education and scientific research.
''The health care bill alone is the most significant and far-reaching piece of domestic social policy in my lifetime,'' says Neera Tanden, the 40-year-old chief operating officer of the liberal Center for American Progress, who worked in the Clinton and Obama administrations and was a top official in Hillary Clinton's campaign. In all, Ms. Tanden added, ''It is hard to see a more productive session of Congress in decades.''
Yet on the issue that drives elections more than any other -- the current state of the economy -- the White House and Congress have fallen short by any reasonable standard, including their own. By now, they forecast that the unemployment rate would be below 8 percent, not 9.6 percent. Perhaps more important, they also expected joblessness to be steadily falling.
The problems began with the original stimulus, passed in February 2009. Centrist senators, whose votes were needed, opposed the kind of huge, $1 trillion-plus program that now seems as if it would have been best. But even within those confines, the ultimate $787 billion bill was flawed. Some $70 billion of it went to a tax cut that Congress would surely have passed anyway.
Still, the stimulus made a big difference. As analyses by the Congressional Budget Office and others have shown, the bill was a major reason that the economy turned around in early 2009 and was growing by year's end.
So what happened?
Recoveries from financial crises tend to be long and slow. The European debt crisis, which began early this year and sent stocks around the world falling, seems to have taken away the American economy's slim margin for error. By May, hiring by companies had slowed.
Stimulus spending was starting to slow, too. And White House political aides were looking at polls showing voters were worried about deficits and spending. Put it all together, and the aggressive policy response of 2008 and 2009 faded.
In December 2009, the House passed a second stimulus bill, totaling $154 billion. But it languished. By the time the Senate took it up in February, a special Senate election in Massachusetts had cost the Democrats their filibuster-proof majority. The bill that the Senate eventually passed, and that became law, was only one-tenth as large as the House version.
At the Fed, meanwhile, some officials were warning -- incorrectly, it's now clear -- that the economy could be at risk of growing too quickly and setting off inflation. Yet Mr. Obama let two Fed seats sit vacant for months, rather than fill them with economists who could have lent more balance. Only recently has the Fed started trying to lift growth again.
White House officials respond to these criticisms by pointing out that they helped break the back of the worst financial crisis in 80 years and that Republicans opposed nearly every tax cut or spending increase Democrats proposed. That's all true. But I keep coming back to the fact that this administration is full of people who knew that financial crises tended to produce weak recoveries -- and that the typical policy mistake was being too timid.
''We're just not going to make that mistake,'' Timothy Geithner, the incoming Treasury secretary, told me, as Mr. Obama was preparing to take office. ''We're not going to do that. We'll keep at it until it's done, whatever it takes.''
Mr. Obama and his team may yet succeed at doing that. But for reasons both beyond and within their control, it will take longer than they hoped or expected. And longer than voters hoped or expected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job seekers in September in Livonia, Mich. The White House and Congress had forecast that the unemployment rate would be below 8 percent by now. It stands at 9.6 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) CHART: Jobs Hole: Employment stopped growing this spring, as private sector growth slowed and government payrolls shrank. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); EDUCATION FUNDING (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); CHRISTINA ROMER (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



748 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING UNITED NATIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Again Urges U.S. To Lift Cuba Embargo

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
The annual General Assembly resolution calling for the United States to lift its longstanding economic embargo against Cuba passed by the lopsided vote of 187 to 2. Only the United States and Israel opposed the nonbinding measure, the 19th such resolution in a row, while three Pacific island allies of Washington abstained. The Cuban foreign minister, Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla, accused President Obama of promising to change relations with Cuba but falling under the thrall of the exile community in the United States. In response, the United States said that it had expanded trade and other ties with the Caribbean nation but that improved relations hinged on greater domestic freedom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); ISRAEL (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



749 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... Ibiza, Spain

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE WITH A POOL IN CAP MARTINET
1.4 MILLION EUROS ($1.93 MILLION)
This four-bedroom four-bath house, built in 2003 in the style of a traditional Spanish country house, or finca, has views of the Mediterranean. Most of the rooms open to outdoor spaces, including the upper level, which has small balconies and a terrace. The listing agent says the house has about 200 square meters of living space (2,150 square feet, at 10.76 square feet to the square meter) and 130 square meters of outdoor space.
The living room has a fireplace flanked by built-in shelves; the open-plan kitchen has painted wood cabinets. There are two bedrooms on the main floor, one with an en-suite bathroom and a door to the terrace. Upstairs, both bedrooms open onto a balcony overlooking the swimming pool. One of the upstairs bedrooms has an en-suite bath; in addition there is a hall bath. All four bedrooms have built-in pine wardrobes, a common feature in Spanish homes. Terra cotta floors run throughout. 
This house is on a dead-end road in Cap Martinet, an upscale area near the city of Ibiza, where there are restaurants and shops. The nearest beach is about five minutes by car, or 20 minutes' walk. The airport is a 20-minute drive, and from there Barcelona is a 40-minute flight. In the summer, there are direct flights to Ibiza from many other European cities.
Ibiza is one of the Balearic Islands off the coast of Spain in the Mediterranean. The largest is the island of Mallorca.
MARKET OVERVIEW
The property market on Ibiza has been more lively in 2010, said Natascha Sandig, owner of the real estate company Porta Ibiza and the sales agent for the property featured here. She was comparing this year with the last two, when the global downturn slowed the market.
Alexander Vaughan, the director of Lucas Fox Ibiza, said the prevalence of international buyers in Ibiza had kept the market stronger than in mainland Spain. The strengthening economies in the United States and some northern European countries have brought buyers back to Ibiza this year, Mr. Vaughan said.
At the lower end of the market, single-family homes that need updating sell for around 700,000 euros ($972,000, at 0.72 euros to the dollar). Sales have been sluggish: most buyers looking to finance a purchase have been hampered by the credit crunch, Ms. Sandig said. But houses over 2 million euros are selling better, she said, because buyers are usually paying cash. She described the typical high-end house as near the city of Ibiza, with water views and a pool, and at least six bedrooms. These homes usually sell for 3 million to 3.4 million euros. The house featured here is priced lower because it is smaller and has a smaller lot.
Country-style houses are popular on Ibiza. Ms. Sandig says most of the original fincas are around 300 years old, and without water views because they're in the middle of the island. An original finca after restoration costs 2.5 million to 3.5 million euros, while a finca awaiting restoration costs about 1 million. Ms. Sandig says that more recently built houses, like the one featured here, often imitate the finca style. Modern, minimalist villas are also very popular in Ibiza, she said.
WHO BUYS IN IBIZA
It remains difficult to get financing in Spain because of the recession, Ms. Sandig said. For that reason, Spanish buyers of Ibiza's vacation homes are still few and far between. The most common buyers are German, British and Dutch, although there are a few from Italy and France.
Ibiza's international buyers tend to prefer the San Jose area in the southwest part of the island, and in the city of Ibiza itself, vacation home buyers are drawn to the area around the marina, Mr. Vaughan said.
BUYING BASICS
All foreigners seeking to buy property in Spain are required to get a Numero de Identificacion para Extranjeros, commonly called an N.I.E., said Denise Klischan, an Ibiza lawyer who specializes in real estate law. The license costs about 200 euros, and the application process can be completed in one day.
In addition, anyone from outside the European Union is required to get a special license from the Spanish military before buying outside the Ibiza city limits. Permission is usually granted unless the property is on the coast. Ms. Klischan says the license costs about 400 euros, and processing can take several months.
Other transaction costs amount to about 10 percent of the purchase price. According to Ms. Sandig, 7 percent of that is a transfer tax levied by the Spanish government, and the remaining 3 percent covers notary fees and the registration of the deed. The real estate agent commission is paid by the seller.
WEB SITES
Ibiza official tourism site: ibiza.travel
Spanish tourism site: spain.info
Spanish tax agency: www.aeat.es
Spanish news in English: expatica.com/es/main.html
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
Spanish, Catalan; Euro (1 euro = $1.37)
TAXES AND FEES
Property taxes for a house of this size would be about 300 euros a year, Ms. Sandig said.
CONTACT
Natascha Sandig, Porta Ibiza, www.portaibiza.com, 011-34-971-194-135, info@portaibiza.com,
portaibiza.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES FORCE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); FITNESS CENTERS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (99%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) SPAIN (94%); EUROPE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



750 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Rabbit Ears Redux

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Since television extended its reach from coast to coast in its early days, the properly equipped baseball fan was not likely to miss the World Series. Those rabbit ears or roof antennas had to be tilted the right way. And the reception might have been snowy. But no dispute between giant news media companies was going to thwart the fan from watching the Series.
But on Wednesday, that is almost certainly going to happen. 
And rabbit ears, satellite dishes and Verizon FiOS are now the alternatives for fans in New York and New Jersey who want to bypass the inconvenience of WNYW Channel 5's removal 11 days ago from Cablevision's systems by the News Corporation, the owner of Fox Broadcasting.
Some of Cablevision's customers in South New Jersey have been doubly victimized; they cannot see Channel 5 or the Fox-owned WTXF Channel 29 in Philadelphia, which (with WWOR Channel 9) are part of the same dispute over what Fox wants Cablevision to pay to retransmit its signals.
Cablevision's only fortunate customers live in Connecticut, where they can watch the Series and other Fox programming on WTIC Channel 61, which is not owned by the News Corporation.
The temporary loss of Channel 5 is a landmark in sports TV.
''I've been a baseball fan all my life,'' said Mike Trager, a sports media consultant, ''and I'm positive there's never been a time when a World Series was unavailable to viewers who wanted it.''
The only situation remotely comparable to Neal Pilson, a former president of CBS Sports, was the refusal for many years by CBS's Philadelphia station to carry the Cotton Bowl in favor of the highly rated Mummers Parade.
The dispute comes at a propitious time for Fox. The Texas-San Francisco World Series was never destined to be a huge draw in the New York market. No network wants any significant part of its viewing audience to lose access to a marquee event like the World Series, but it is better that it happened without the Yankees involved.
Being unable to count Cablevision customers for the Rangers-Giants matchup amounts to perhaps 0.2 of a rating point. Not a critical fraction.
Major League Baseball cannot do much more than watch a dispute that has both sides telling the Federal Communications Commission that the other guy has been bargaining in bad faith.
Baseball's contract with Fox requires the network to make all reasonable efforts to get all of its affiliates to carry the games. Once that is done -- and it is not difficult to persuade those stations of the wisdom of carrying the World Series -- Fox cannot then guarantee distribution by cable, satellite or telephone operators even though nearly everyone pays to watch via one of those carriers.
''Fox is in compliance with the contract,'' said Tim Brosnan, M.L.B.'s executive vice president for business. He added that baseball wants all Cablevision subscribers to see the World Series, but ''we recognize that it's a commercial dispute between two private parties.''
In a letter sent Monday to the F.C.C., Fox argued that shifting economics are driving the retransmission fees it wants from Cablevision (and which it got from Time Warner Cable). In essence, Fox said that it wants stations like its Channel 5 to be more like cable networks (like ESPN) that get continuous flows of revenue from advertisers and subscribers. It is clear, wrote Michael C. Hopkins, an executive of Fox Networks, ''that without creating a second revenue stream, broadcasters will no longer be able to acquire major sports events'' and other programming.
That is a fear for all broadcasters. M.L.B., the N.B.A., the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament and the Bowl Championship Series have moved their rights increasingly (or entirely) to cable. Cablevision claimed in its Monday missive to the F.C.C. that Fox timed the failed talks involving Channel 5 around the rights it still has, to the N.L.C.S. and World Series, to impose ''maximum -- and unfair -- leverage'' on Cablevision and inflict ''maximum possible damage with its subscribers.''
If this fight is not settled soon, most of Cablevision's subscribers will have to find other means to see the World Series and the Packers-Jets game on Sunday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); BAD FAITH (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); NEWS CORP (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (91%); NWS (ASX) (91%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



751 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Remained Weak in October

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Americans' confidence in the economy rose only slightly in October from September, even as home prices remained weak in August.
The weak outlook for consumer confidence comes in the face of a rebounding stock market and underscores challenges retailers face as they prepare for a holiday shopping season in which only modest gains are expected.
The Conference Board, a private research group, said Tuesday that its Consumer Confidence Index rose to 50.2 from a revised 48.6 in September. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected a reading of 49.2. 
September's index was the lowest since February and was sharply down from 53.2 in August.
It takes a reading of 90 to indicate a healthy economy, a level not approached since the recession began in December 2007. Economists watch confidence closely because consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of economic activity and is critical to a strong rebound.
The index, which measures how shoppers feel about business conditions, the job market and the next six months, had been recovering fitfully since hitting a low of 25.3 in February 2009.
In October 2009, the index stood at 48.7. Since then, it has mostly hovered in a tight range between the mid-40s and the high 50s. May 2010 proved to be the only exception at 62.7, but even that is weak.
One barometer of the Consumer Confidence Index, which measures how shoppers feel now about the economy, increased slightly to 23.9 in October, from 23.3. The other measure, which assesses consumers' outlook over the next six months, improved to 67.8 from 65.5.
''Consumers continue to be quite concerned about the short-term outlook,'' Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement. ''Both present and future indicators point toward more of the same in the coming months.''
Meanwhile, home prices are weakening around the country, even in metro areas that were showing strength earlier in the year.
The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller 20-city home price index fell 0.2 percent in August from July. Fifteen of the cities showed monthly price declines. Prices are expected to drop further in the coming months.
Home prices in the 20-cities index were 1.7 percent higher, however, than they were a year ago, in August 2009.
The biggest month-to-month drop was in Phoenix, where prices fell 1.3 percent from a month earlier. Prices in San Francisco and Los Angeles, which had been increasing, both fell in August from July.
Detroit, Chicago, Washington, New York and Las Vegas were the only cities to show monthly increases.
The 20-city index has risen 6.7 percent from the April 2009 bottom, but it remains nearly 28 percent below its July 2006 peak. On a seasonally adjusted basis, the index fell 0.3 percent in August from July, but the S.& P. announced earlier this year that the unadjusted numbers were a more reliable indicator.
Home prices rose in many markets from April through July, but those increases were mostly fueled by government tax credits, which have expired. Now that the peak buying season is over, a record number of foreclosures, job concerns and weak demand from buyers are pushing prices down.
Most experts expect roughly five million homes to be sold through the entire year. That would be in line with last year's totals and just above sales for 2008, the worst since 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CITY LIFE (61%); CITIES (61%); EMPLOYMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



752 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Urged to Join Forces on Rare Earth Metals

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- The United States and Europe should work together with industry to reduce dependence on China for crucial minerals because global trade bodies are ill-equipped to solve the problem of withheld supplies, officials and executives said Tuesday at a high-level conference.
Germany has been the most vocal country in Europe in raising concerns about the potential economic impact of shortfalls of rare earth and other metals, and its economy minister was a featured speaker at the conference, organized by the Federation of German Industries. 
The consensus among attendees, who included representatives from industry as well as the European Union, the World Trade Organization and the World Bank, was that trade rules were inadequate when it came to responding to China's decision to cut back export quotas of such materials. China dominates the mining of these metals, which are crucial for high-tech industries.
''The fact is that the existing rules do not appear to be commensurate to the problem we face,'' said Frank Hoffmeister, deputy chief of cabinet for the European trade commissioner, Karel De Gucht.
Pascal Lamy, general secretary of the World Trade Organization, said the W.T.O. had no authority to deal with raw materials as such.
However, many broadly written international trade rules can be construed as applying to raw materials. The United States, the European Union and Mexico brought a W.T.O. case against China last year asserting that it had violated a ban on export restrictions by limiting exports of bauxite and a half-dozen other industrial minerals; an initial W.T.O. decision is expected next April.
An American executive at the conference suggested that the United States and Europe work together.
''It is up to us to solve the problem,'' said Gary Litman, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's vice president for Europe and Eurasia. ''The U.S. has the resources and together with our E.U. partners we can produce anything we want.''
German companies complained that the lack of rules gave China free rein to do what it liked with its rare earth minerals. At the same time, flush with cash, China faces few constraints in access to other raw materials to feed its expanding economy.
The case of iron ore was cited by Edwin Eichler, chief executive of ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe, one of the Continent's biggest steel producers.
''Iron ore prices today have risen 100 percent compared to last April. Why? The 50-year-old benchmark that fixed prices for one year at a time has now been changed to a quarterly basis based on the Chinese index,'' Mr. Eichler said. ''So we face higher prices and reduced availability.''
Other industry chiefs echoed complaints that China was hinting that if industries wanted access to its rare earth minerals, then they should invest in China.
''Rare earth exports from China could fall even further, even by 30 percent next year,'' said Ulrich Grillo, the chief executive of Grillo-Werke, a chemicals company. ''So what the Chinese are telling us, directly or indirectly, is that if we want access to their rare earth material metals we should invest in China.''
He added that Western companies like his were reluctant to do so for fear that they would lose control of their intellectual property rights.
''China needs our know-how and machines, but we need protection for our technology,'' he said. ''We don't want these problems to turn into China-bashing.''
The German government has asked France, which takes over the Group of 20 presidency next month, to put raw materials at the top of its agenda. The economics minister, Rainer Bruderle, said he had received assurances from Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, that that would happen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MISC METAL MINING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%)

COMPANY: THYSSENKRUPP STEEL AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); FEDERATION OF GERMAN INDUSTRIES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (51%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



753 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Herbert Hoover, Redux

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''British Fashion Victims,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Oct. 22): 
Mr. Krugman notes that the new fad of fiscal austerity captivating Britain and the United States ''might have come straight from the desk of Andrew Mellon,'' Herbert Hoover's secretary of the Treasury. Indeed, in Hoover's State of the Union Message in December 1930, a year after the stock market crash ignited the Great Depression, Hoover called for ''most rigid economy'' in government.
In 1931 and 1932, he hadn't changed his mind, still arguing that ''we must have insistent and determined reduction in government expenses.''
Hoover's advice to unemployed Americans standing in bread lines or sleeping under newspapers? Bear up! Responsibility rested upon the individual. ''If someone could get off a good joke every 10 days,'' he suggested in 1931 to a reporter, ''I think our troubles would be over.'' Roosevelt's promises to provide federal jobs to the unemployed were ''frivolous,'' he said.
Fast forward 80 years: the G.O.P. and the Tea Party gleefully repeat Hoover's mantra, even though his slashing of federal spending only intensified the economic crisis.
As we approach the midterm elections, voters should think twice about electing Hoover clones.
Susan Dunn Williamstown, Mass., Oct. 25, 2010
The writer teaches leadership studies at Williams College and is the author of ''Roosevelt's Purge: How F.D.R. Fought to Change the Democratic Party.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (65%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



754 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Pre-emptive Charges of Bias in a City-Financed Wage Study

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Advocates for workers plan to charge on Wednesday that a New York City-financed study is likely to conclude falsely that more harm than good would come from mandating higher minimum wages for employees of companies that receive city subsidizes. 
The study, financed by $1 million from the city's Economic Development Corporation, is not scheduled to be completed until spring. But advocates for workers are criticizing it in advance because they fear it will be biased toward employers.
A bill pending in the City Council would extend New York's so-called living wage of $10 an hour to employees of companies that receive all sorts of subsidies and tax breaks from the city. The issue became controversial last year when the Council rejected a plan to build a mall inside the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx. Opponents had demanded that the subsidized project pay more than the minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. That defeat still rankles Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who opposes the living-wage bill introduced in May.
On Wednesday, two liberal research groups -- the National Employment Law Project and the Fiscal Policy Institute -- plan to release a critique of the study's leaders and methods and to contend that the labor economists leading it are too ''biased'' to produce a credible analysis.
One of them, David Neumark, is ''such a controversial figure'' that his involvement is ''surprising and troubling,'' the critique says. It goes on to characterize Mr. Neumark, a professor at the University of California, Irvine, as a leading critic of policies intended to raise the wages of the lowest-paid workers.
From his West Coast office, Mr. Neumark sounded only mildly perturbed at the prospect of being publicly demonized by Council members and labor leaders 3,000 miles away, though he took umbrage at being called biased.
''I fail to see how someone can read all my research and say, 'This guy is biased against living wages,' '' he said. ''My research on living wages, I think, reads as kind of wishy-washy, if anything.''
By that, he meant that his studies on living-wage policies in different parts of the country had generally concluded that while they did cost some workers their jobs, they also reduced poverty among others whose wages rose. Despite the increase in unemployment, he said putting a living wage into place ''may be a relatively intelligent thing to do.''
That is quite different from what Mr. Neumark has concluded and repeatedly written about increases in minimum wages, a position that has made him a pariah among labor leaders and a hero to the restaurant industry and other employers of low-skilled workers. He has argued that raising the minimum wage tends to benefit teenagers who are not poor, often at the expense of adults who are.
Mr. Neumark said his critics should await the results of the study before trying to discredit it. ''The city has certainly never said to me, 'We want this answer,' '' he said.
A spokesman for the Economic Development Corporation, David Lombino, said the agency had sought the opinions of union officials and real estate developers, and would solicit the concerns of others after the study is finished.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING WAGE (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MAYORS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); RESTAURANTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



755 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths DORMER, ROBERT THOMAS

 BODY:
DORMER--Robert Thomas, 91, of Palm Harbor, Florida died on October 25, 2010 after a short illness. Before moving to Florida in 1994, he was a resident of Bayside, NY for more than 40 years. 
He was raised in Manhattan where he was born November 20, 1918, the son of Nicholas and Agnes Dormer. He was President of the New State Job Development Authority from 1979 until his retirement in 1991. Prior to that he served as Executive Vice President of the New York State Urban Corporation. In 1991 the New York State Economic Development Council renamed its Economic Developer of the Year Award as the Robert T. Dormer Economic Developer of the Year Award. In 1994 he was named an Honorary Life Member of the American Economic Development Council "in recognition of long and distinguished service in furthering the profession of economic development and the aims of the Council." Survivors include four children, sons Robert (Bonnie), Ronald (Nancy Nason), Daniel (Janet), a daughter, Diane, and six grandchildren. He was predeceased by his spouses, Mary Catherine McLaughlin Dormer and Gunnel Jerrebo Dormer and his brother, Nicholas. He was a graduate of New York University. During World War II he served in the US Navy with the 114th Construction Battalion (Seabees) in France from July to December 1944 and later in the South Pacific and finally in Japan in September 1945. Burial will be at the Long Island National Cemetery, Farmingdale, Long Island, on November 2, 2010 at 11:00am. In lieu of flowers, please consider a donation to Disabled American Veterans, P.O. Box 145477, Cincinnati, OH 45250-5447

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); NAVIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENGINEERING (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



756 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: In Times Square, at Least, Retailing Is Rebounding

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
When the sunglass and sportswear maker Oakley wanted to expand its presence in Manhattan, it leased space last month on a busy corner that was swarming with tourists. To get that space, Oakley is paying $1,375 a square foot -- what some luxury retailers paid on Madison Avenue's choicest blocks before the recession.
But Oakley's store, which will be 1,815 square feet, will not have a Madison Avenue address. Instead, it is at 1515 Broadway at 44th Street in Times Square, a neighborhood once known more for peep shows and prostitutes than astronomical rents. Yet three other retailers competed with Oakley for the space, said Jeffrey B. Roseman, an executive vice president at the brokerage Newmark Knight Frank, who represented the landlord, the S L Green Realty Corporation.
Not so long ago, stores in New York seemed to be emptying out at a rapid clip. Shoppers cut back on spending, making it difficult for many merchants to keep up with the high rents. At the same time, tens of thousands of square feet were added to the market as struggling retailers like Circuit City sought bankruptcy protection or others, like the Gap and Barnes & Noble, closed stores in New York. 
Some of the gloom has lifted. Though unemployment in the city remains high -- and the office market is showing only minimal improvement -- retail leasing began picking up late last year and has been accelerating this year. The new tenants are dominated by apparel stores, including the Japanese clothier Uniqlo at Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street and the discount apparel store Century 21 in 61,000 square feet at Broadway and 66th Street that is currently occupied by Barnes & Noble. The five former Circuit City spaces have new tenants. Most recently, the food market Fairway leased space on 86th Street between Second and Third Avenues that used to house a Circuit City and a Barnes & Noble.
And in one shopping district, Times Square, the average annual asking rent of $650 a square foot is actually higher than it was in late 2008.
Brokers say business began improving when rents in many neighborhoods declined by as much as 30 percent -- enough to persuade tenants that they were getting a good deal. ''The landlords responded to a wave of creditworthy tenants,'' said Gene P. Spiegelman, an executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield. ''They had secure cash flows in a time of uncertainty.'' In addition, landlords have sweetened deals by giving extra months of free rent and contributing to the cost of building the store interior, brokers say.
Landlords have also become flexible in other ways, said Benjamin Fox, the president of Winick Realty Group. For example, he said, space on Third Avenue and 44th Street that was formerly leased to a card store sat empty for more than two years, but is now home to two restaurants, Le Pain Quotidien and Hello Pasta. ''I don't think that landlord ever contemplated having food there,'' Mr. Fox said.
Though some retailers are taking advantage of the market, many others still cannot get financing to open a store, Mr. Fox said. ''The activity has increased -- no question about it,'' he said. ''But the velocity is still not what it used to be. There are still a lot of national chains sitting on the sidelines, in New York and elsewhere.''
Still, on the so-called Gold Coast of Madison Avenue, from 57th Street to 72nd Street, vacancies have dwindled to 20 from 30 since early last year, Mr. Spiegelman said. Because some space has been consolidated, the vacancy rate has declined only two percentage points from its peak of 13 percent at the end of 2008 and well below the 6.5 percent rate in 2006. The newest tenants on Madison include the Swiss watchmaker Vacheron Constantin at 64th Street, the boot maker Ugg at 58th Street and the lingerie store Agent Provocateur at 61st Street.
Though the average asking rent is about $841 a square foot, some deals were struck at $600 a foot early in the recovery, Mr. Spiegelman said.
A spate of new leasing has also occurred on 34th Street, between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas. Among the new arrivals are the clothing stores Who. A. U. from South Korea and Desigual from Spain.
Though brokers are breathing easier these days, they say some neighborhoods are still hurting. The Flatiron District, on Fifth Avenue and Broadway from 14th Street to 23rd Street, for instance, is still riddled with vacancies. ''Not everything has been coming back with great luster,'' said Faith Hope Consolo, the chairwoman of retail leasing at Prudential Douglas Elliman.
The proliferation of bank branches before the recession swelled rents on stretches like Third Avenue on the Upper East Side to unrealistic levels because banks were competing for corner locations, brokers said. Now many spaces on the avenue are or will soon be empty. ''A lot of leases came due at the same time, and the tenants chose not to renew,'' said Gary Alterman, a senior vice president at Robert K. Futterman & Associates.
Desirable spaces on Third Avenue once commanded more than $300 a foot, but are now about $250, Mr. Spiegelman said.
But rents are rising in tourist areas like SoHo and Times Square. Sam Chandan, the chief economist for Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm, said ''the strong rebound in tourist traffic'' was benefiting the retail corridors that attract visitors.
One gauge of SoHo's success is the diminishing number of spaces for temporary, or ''pop-up'' stores, said Stephen Tarter, a principal of Tarter Stats O'Toole, a local brokerage. ''A year ago, there were probably 20 spaces where you could put a temporary tenant,'' he said. ''Now there are about three.''
In Times Square, the ''bowtie'' section, from 42nd to 47th Streets where Broadway and Seventh Avenue cross, is the second-most expensive shopping district in the city, with an average annual asking rent of $1,000 a square foot, higher than before the recession, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Only the Fifth Avenue shopping strip north of 49th Street performs better, with an average asking rent of over $2,300.
For Oakley, which also has stores in SoHo and the meatpacking district, a berth at 44th Street and Broadway seemed ideal because the corner drew international tourists ''almost 24/7'' and the neighboring clothing stores, Aeropostale and Billabong, catered to a similar youthful customer, an Oakley spokeswoman said. ''The co-tenancy is definitely desirable,'' she said. Times Square has an advantage over most other shopping districts because the stores remain open late into the evening. In coming months, the real estate industry will be watching closely to see whether some of the razzle-dazzle of Times Square can be extended east. C. Bradley Mendelson, another executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield, is representing the owners of three buildings on the south side of 42nd Street between Broadway and the Avenue of the Americas, including the Knickerbocker Hotel, the 1918 Bush Building and 1095 Avenue of the Americas -- formerly known as the Verizon Building -- where a new plaza is being built.
Mr. Mendelson says he hopes to create a destination on that block, with restaurants and stores that will bring new life to the street. Finding the right tenant for the corner of 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas will be crucial, he said.
''Everybody knows we could put a CVS on that corner or a Duane Reade,'' Mr. Mendelson said. ''But it would do nothing for that block.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a picture caption in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday with an article about retail space in Manhattan described incorrectly the construction work shown at 1095 Avenue of the Americas. The photograph was of sidewalk reconstruction on 42nd Street -- not a new plaza, which is on the west side of the building and was not visible in the picture.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rents for retail space in Times Square, above, are strong. At left, the plaza at 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%)

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (70%); BGC PARTNERS INC (56%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%)

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (70%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



757 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Small Efforts Add Up in Colorado Senate Contest

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
COLORADO SPRINGS -- The Senate race in Colorado has seen as intense a barrage of television attack ads as any race in the country, tens of millions of dollars worth, numbing voters with the din.
But on a recent evening at the Underground Bar, a brick-walled gay hangout here in Colorado's second-largest and perhaps most conservative city, a quieter political strategy reigned.
Against a background of clinking wine glasses, a group of perhaps 40 women -- lesbian and straight, but Democratic enthusiasts all -- had gathered to meet and listen to Susan Daggett, the wife of Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat struggling to hold on to his office in a tight race against Ken Buck, a Republican prosecutor and Tea Party favorite. 
Ms. Daggett, 46, an environmental lawyer who met her future husband in law school, has come to this area dozens of times in recent months to cultivate votes and volunteers in what might seem hard and rocky soil; Colorado Springs and the surrounding county, El Paso, gave Senator John McCain, a 58 percent majority in 2008, in a year when President Obama won this state.
But in a race that both sides say has become a matter of minuscule edges and angles in the closing days of the campaign, small-scale efforts like this are looming large. And the three-pronged strategy that the Bennet campaign has tried with Ms. Daggett riding point -- energize women, engage the gay community and reach out to the quiet base of Obama Democrats who found their voice two years ago -- is one of the things that has kept Mr. Bennet in the race despite being written off early in the campaign, say political analysts, Democrats and Republicans.
''This is not the time to go backward,'' Ms. Daggett told the room, looking more like a skateboard mom -- green sneakers, black jeans and a loose denim shirt -- than a Washington wife.
''You can choose the pain of sacrifice in the next eight days,'' she said, in urging everyone to make calls and knock on doors, ''or you can choose the pain of defeat.''
A spokesman for Mr. Buck, Owen Loftus, said the Bennet campaign's efforts -- drilling down to the small scale for voter allegiance and loyalty -- were signs that Mr. Bennet was having trouble retaining his base. Mr. Bennet, a lawyer and former schools chief in Denver, was appointed to the Senate last year to fill a vacancy, and has never before run for public office.
''It's interesting that Senator Bennet is targeting small groups to win this election,'' Mr. Loftus said, ''while Ken is reaching out to all Coloradoans -- talking about jobs, the economy and reining in government spending.''
But what Mr. Buck says to Coloradoans on the campaign trail has also definitely helped energize the small-scale efforts like Ms. Daggett's at the Underground Bar, many women said. One recent comment in a nationally televised debate in which Mr. Buck likened homosexuality to alcoholism, for example -- each something that ''birth has an influence over,'' as he put it -- particularly resonated with Colorado's gay residents and was a major topic at Ms. Daggett's event.
But the local flavor of the Democratic Party is important, too.
The secretary of the El Paso County Democratic Party, Carolyn Cathey, said gay men and lesbians gravitated toward the Democrats here as a result of being excluded in past years from participation in conservative civic and city hall groups. That alliance strengthened the Democrats and the gay community both, Ms. Cathey said, and intensified the commitment to social issues and equality on each side of the partnership.
''Liberals here do not have a choice,'' said Ms. Cathey, who is also a board member of a group called Inside Out, which works with gay youth. ''We have to come out.''
Top Republican strategists in Washington grudgingly credit Mr. Bennet with running what they consider to be one of the best Democratic campaigns of the year, saying he has been surprisingly effective in distancing himself from the White House since the primary in August and positioning himself as an outsider on spending issues even though he is technically the incumbent. At the same time, he has managed to knock Mr. Buck off an economic message by emphasizing social issues.
But polls in many parts of the country, including Colorado, suggest that many Democratic voters will not come out on Election Day; turnout is expected to be a crucial factor, not just how people vote. And one of the women in the bar with Ms. Daggett who has been doing phone-banking for the party, said she was hearing some of that resistance, or perhaps capitulation, in her conversations.
''Some people don't even want to acknowledge that they're registered in the party,'' said Kathy Wade, an innkeeper and long-time volunteer who has been calling registered Democrats.
The backdrop here and across Colorado is that many more men than women support Mr. Buck, according to many polls, while the reverse is true for Mr. Bennet. The gender gap has become a defining feature of the race, and Ms. Daggett has emerged as one of its chief spokeswomen, often talking on the campaign trail, as does Mr. Bennet, about their three daughters and their dreams of the future.
''We refer to her as our secret weapon,'' said Craig Hughes, Mr. Bennet's campaign manager.
Mr. Hughes said her efforts had tapped the campaign into networks of female voters not just in Colorado Springs, but also in the suburbs of Denver and areas in Colorado's western half as well.
Colorado Springs, with El Paso County, Mr. Hughes said, is an alluring target partly because it has continued to gain population even during the recession, creating a larger voter base. What that means is that even getting close to the percentage achieved by Mr. Obama there, 40 percent, could deliver thousands of new and potentially decisive Democratic votes in an increasingly populous and diverse county.
''It moves it up on the list of priorities,'' he said.
As the evening wore on at the Underground, it was also clear that Ms. Daggett had moved into a kind of celebrity status, however much she talked about her husband.
''When are you going to run for office yourself?'' one woman leaned in to ask as Ms. Daggett made the rounds.
Ms. Daggett immediately demurred, saying, ''I don't think so.''
''But you're so much cuter,'' the woman replied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan Daggett, the wife of Senator Michael Bennet who has been called the campaign's secret weapon, campaigned at a gay bar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ken Buck, a Republican prosecutor and Tea Party favorite, campaigned in Littleton, Colo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRY GUTIERREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Bennet held a campaign event for volunteers and supporters in his headquarters in Denver. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LAWYERS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BENNET (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (89%) COLORADO, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



758 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
IRANIAN NUCLEAR REACTOR
Receives Fuel Rods
Iran celebrated as it started the process of loading 163 fuel rods into the core of its first nuclear power plant reactor. The reactor could now be within months of operation. The timing is delicate, as tighter sanctions are being put in place against Iran by the United Nations Security Council, the United States and the European Union. PAGE A8
GORBACHEV CRITICIZES PUTIN 
Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who once supported Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, is voicing growing frustration with Mr. Putin's leadership, saying that he had undermined Russia's fledgling democracy by crippling the opposition forces. PAGE A8
UNREST IN LEBANON
The Obama administration, already struggling to stave off a collapse of Middle East peace talks, is increasingly alarmed by unrest in Lebanon. The fragile peace there is being threatened by militant opponents of a politically charged investigation. PAGE A4
National
DEMOCRATS PLAY DEFENSE
On Health Care Law
Republicans have kept Democrats largely on the defensive about the health care law, President Obama's signature domestic achievement. While the issue is often secondary to economic concerns, it has remained prominent in numerous races for the House and Senate. PAGE A20
FIGHT OVER VOTING FRAUD
In 2006, conservative activists claimed that fraudulent voting was so widespread that it was corrupting the political process. The accusations turned out to be largely false, but they led to a heated debate, which is flaring anew. PAGE A17
NEW YORK
Staten Island Man ChargedIn Terrorism Case
A former Staten Island man whoprosecutors said made repeated attempts to join the Taliban and other extremist groups overseas -- even though he apparently knew that federal agents were closely watching him -- has been charged with making false statements in a terrorism case, the authorities said. PAGE A22
BUSINESS
Ford Motor Posts ProfitIn 6th Consecutive Quarter
A surge in third-quarter profit is the best evidence yet that the Ford Motor Company has moved into a period of sustained growth, further distinguishing itself from rivals despite a weak economy and slack overall demand. PAGE B1
Russia's Spam Crackdown
Police officials in Russia, a major source of spam, say they are trying to do their part to stem the flow.They announced a criminal investigation of a suspected spam kingpin Igor A. Gusev, but said he had probably fled the country. PAGE B1
Drawbacks to Strong Rupee
The Indian rupee is soaring -- up 9 percent against the dollar in the las16 months. That has taken a toll onexports like textiles by making them more expensive on the world market. And the strong rupee poses longer-term threats of overheating the economy. PAGE B1
Myspace's Redesign
All but eclipsed by Facebook and Twitter, Myspace is aiming for a comeback. The onetime king of social networking plans to revamp itsWeb site, narrowing its focus on entertainment for people 13 to 35 yearold, also known as Generation Y.PAGE B3
Sports
TWO STAR PITCHERS PREPARE
For World Series
Befitting the so-called year of the pitcher, the Game 1 matchup in the World Series is the first in 15 years to feature a multiple Cy Young winner, in the Giants' Tim Lincecum and a one-time winner, in the Rangers' Cliff Lee. Tyler Kepner, On Baseball. PAGE B10
RESURGENT GIANTS
The Giants returned home for their bye week a confident bunch after demolishing the Dallas Cowboys, the preseason darlings, and making their case as the best team in the National Football Conference. PAGE B11
Arts
GRAFFITI OF NEW YORK'S PAST,
Revived and Remade
A newly formed collective of former graffiti writers have embarked on an unusual citywide campaign to summon 50 or more of the most famous pieces of old-school graffiti out of the history books and back onto the streets. The project, called ''Subway Art History,'' is unusual not only because the artists are making the pieces with the permission of businesses, schools and other perhaps nostalgic owners of blank vertical space, but also because of the nature of the pieces themselves. PAGE C1
THE INNER LIVES OF AIRPORTS
Dwight Garner writes that Alain de Botton's new book, ''A Week at the Airport,'' is one of the author's best works. But it is written in a coolly inquisitive voice that sometimes feels laid-on, as if its placidity were covering up more roiling emotions. PAGE C1
Interview with James Gandolfini c1
Op-ed
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A29
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TERRORISM (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); POWER PLANTS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); TALIBAN (68%); EMAIL MARKETING (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); POLICE FORCES (62%); SOCIAL MEDIA (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (57%); PEACE PROCESS (55%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); MYSPACE INC (61%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (61%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (76%); BARACK OBAMA (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



759 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WORLD SERIES PREVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Series Backdrop Comes In Red and Blue

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
The men who manage the metropolises that will be competing when the World Series begins Wednesday night have played a little baseball in their time. In the case of the Dallas mayor, Tom Leppert, it was a few innings on the mound for the junior varsity at Claremont McKenna College in Southern California.
''They put me in when it was time for the outfielders to do wind sprints,'' he said, jokingly. 
Gavin Newsom, the mayor of San Francisco and a candidate for California lieutenant governor, was more serious about the game, starring at Redwood High School in Larkspur, Calif., and playing for two years at Santa Clara University.
''I was your standard 6-foot-3-inch first baseman,'' he said.
Against the backdrop of the midterm elections, it seems fitting, even uncanny, that Leppert, a Republican, said he was a right-handed pitcher when he played and Newsom, a Democrat, proudly stated that he threw and hit from the left.
''Sort of the cliche,'' he said.
Their states fit the red and blue pattern. Their cities stand in even greater contrast. There is probably no American municipality more closely tied to liberal causes than San Francisco, home of the Giants. And the Rangers, who play in Arlington, Tex., but are the newly minted pride of the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex, were once run by the man championed as a compassionate conservative, former President George W. Bush, who has remained visible as a fan during the team's first run to the Series.
''That probably would be one of the few things I could say that I admire about President Bush -- his love for baseball,'' Newsom said in a telephone interview, firing the first Series salvo. ''That would be our most common ground.''
But Newsom did express a ''soft spot'' for the Rangers, who showed some interest in drafting him during his senior season in high school. ''I saved the scouting card they sent me and still have it somewhere,'' he said.
Beyond baseball ties, barbecue and an abiding affection for Willie Brown, the former San Francisco mayor and a native Texan, Newsom said he has some issues with the Lone Star State -- specifically its business practices as they relate to California.
''You've got a governor who tries to come out and take some of our companies,'' he said, referring to Rick Perry. ''So there's already been a little bit of friction.''
More recently, Newsom has been rankled by two Texas-based oil companies, Valero and Tesoro, who he said have supported the passage of Proposition 23, aimed at suspending the state's global warming act of 2006 until the state's unemployment rate drops to 5.5 percent for four consecutive quarters.
''We've got this new commercial slogan -- Don't Mess With California -- that parodies Texas,'' Newsom said. ''Fortunately, we have a governor out here who understands how important this is to our environment.''
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, of course, is a Republican, which speaks to Leppert's assertion that the red-versus-blue characterization of the World Series, and the two cities, would be much too simplistic.
''I think the reality would stand out as very different from the perception,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Normally, people think of us as a sports city, mostly because of the Cowboys. But there has been enormous growth in the Dallas-Fort Worth area -- people are coming here to live from all over the country. It's become a cultural center that we feel can compete with anyone and with a population that keeps getting more and more diverse.''
Even with one of the causes near and dear to Newsom -- gay rights -- Dallas showed a tolerant side, giving 42 percent of its mayoral votes in June 2007 to a city councilman, Ed Oakley, who was bidding to become the first openly gay mayor of a major United States city in a runoff election against Leppert.
For his part, Leppert -- the former chief executive for a major commercial builder and a board member of Washington Mutual before its 2008 collapse and federally brokered sale to JP Morgan Chase -- has adopted more centrist policies on some social issues.
''That said, there are some significant differences in our political agendas,'' Leppert said, referring to San Francisco. ''One of them is that we believe we are very business friendly -- no income tax -- and businesses view us that way. I think because of our political differences we've got a much more vibrant economy that is outperforming most metropolitan areas.''
In the spirit of the challenge, Newsom responded: ''I'm happy to put our team of entrepreneurs up against anybody. We may not be the cheapest place, but we're the best place. We've got high-tech. We've got Twitter. We've got universal health care, preschool and after-school. Eat your heart out, Texas.''
Games 1 and 2 of the Series will be played at AT&T Park, squeezed into San Francisco's urban landscape with the bay as its backdrop. When the series moves to Arlington, it will be part of a suburban sprawl, as the handsome Rangers Ballpark sits in a sports complex that includes the new Cowboys Stadium.
Many differences aside, the mayors could agree that both franchises are long overdue to win the World Series. The Giants have not won it since 1954, or before they moved to San Francisco. The Rangers have never won it, in Washington when they were the Senators, or in Texas, where they moved in 1972.
Who, then, is the underdog? Leppert said the Rangers' payroll of about $55 million has demonstrated a much sounder business practice than the Giants' nearly $98 million counterpart. Newsom said the Giants' lineup of unheralded hitters was a proud reflection of the San Francisco's inclusive fighting spirit.
Predictable predictions?
''I'll say Rangers in six,'' Leppert said.
''I'll have to be more aggressive,'' Newsom said. ''Giants in five.''
Given the polls foretelling a Republican surge next week, would Newsom be willing to let control of Congress rest on the outcome of the Series?
''Interesting thought,'' Newsom said.
Not to Leppert.
''I don't think we'll go there,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gavin Newsom is the mayor of San Francisco, a city closely tied to liberal causes and the home of the Giants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNETH JAMES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mayor Tom Leppert of Dallas predicted the Rangers, a team once run by George W. Bush, will win the World Series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLISON V. SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Newsom File: AGE 43 THROWS Left POLITICAL PARTY Democrat CURRENT POLITICAL POSITION Mayor of San Francisco since 2004 FORMER BASEBALL POSITION First baseman at Santa Clara University for two seasons, after starring at Redwood High School in Larkspur, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL)
 The Leppert File: AGE 56 THROWS Right POLITICAL PARTY Republican CURRENT POLITICAL POSITION Mayor of Dallas since 2007 FORMER BASEBALL POSITION Pitcher on junior varsity at Claremont McKenna College in Southern California (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF TOM LEPPERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); LIBERALISM (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK RANGERS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



760 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Vote Puts Democrats on Defensive

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -- At the start of their debate here last week, the Republican challenger for Congress, State Senator Robert Hurt, paused only long enough to thank the League of Women Voters before ripping into Representative Tom Perriello for voting for ''government-run health care.'' Mr. Hurt returned to the topic seven times over the next hour, despite being asked only once.
If Mr. Hurt was reading from his party's playbook, so was Mr. Perriello, a freshman Democrat scrapping to survive in the centrist Fifth Congressional District, which spans central and southern Virginia. He emphasized that the health law had preserved the private insurance system, and that he had already been thanked by constituents who can ''go to bed at night not having to worry'' that they will be bankrupted by disease. Then he asked for a chance to improve an imperfect law.
''This doesn't change overnight,'' Mr. Perriello said, ''but we are moving in the right direction.'' 
That interplay has been replicated across the 2010 campaign, with Republicans largely keeping Democrats on the defensive about the Obama presidency's signature domestic achievement. While clearly secondary to economic concerns, the continuing debate over health care has remained prominent in numerous races for the House and Senate.
President Obama, who typically has not campaigned for individual House members, plans to make an exception on Friday by appearing here with Mr. Perriello, the White House said Monday.
Health care also has played a role in contests for governor and attorney general, the winners of which will have a say in carrying out the new law. And three states -- Arizona, Colorado and Oklahoma -- will be voting on largely symbolic ballot initiatives intended to invalidate the law's requirement that their residents have health insurance.
In Congressional races, a centerpiece of the Republican strategy has been to use Democratic 'yes' votes on the law to tar incumbents as advocates of expansive government and lock-step followers of their party's leadership.
Opponents of the legislation, including independent groups, have spent $108 million since March to advertise against it, according to Evan L. Tracey, president of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks advertising.
That is six times more than supporters have spent, including $5.1 million by the Department of Health and Human Services to promote the new law, Mr. Tracey said. In one of the government's ads, the 84-year-old actor Andy Griffith promises older Americans that ''with the new health care law, more good things are coming.''
The National Republican Congressional Committee, which bought advertising for 62 of its House candidates, cited Democratic votes for the law in half of those districts, including Mr. Perriello's.
''When Congress passed a government takeover of health care, Tom Perriello toed the party line every single time,'' says a narrator in the ad, which also mentions Mr. Perriello's votes for the stimulus and cap-and-trade energy bills.
The Democrats' inability to control the messaging during the legislative debate bled unstaunched into the campaign, as Republicans appealed to base voters with a bumper-sticker pledge to repeal the law or, if unable, to drain its financing.
Their cause has been helped by early indications that federal judges in two districts are seriously considering the law's constitutionality (a third judge has already upheld it). The Republicans also benefited from premium increases and market withdrawals that insurers and employers blamed on requirements for expanded coverage, bringing a furious response from the Obama administration.
Polling on the law shows that the electorate remains split along partisan lines, with independents leaning against it. The evolving Democratic response has varied therefore by geography and political circumstance.
Strikingly, just after Labor Day, the only House Democrats with television ads on the health care law were among the 34 who broke with the party to vote against it. Some of those incumbents have used their votes to demonstrate independence from, and even antagonism toward, the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi (while being careful not to alienate black voters by similarly confronting Mr. Obama).
''I voted against Nancy Pelosi's trillion-dollar health care bill, because we can't afford it,'' says Representative Jim Marshall, a Democrat, in an ad broadcast in his middle Georgia district. ''That's just one reason why I won't support her for speaker.''
In West Virginia, a state with few black voters, Gov. Joe Manchin III, the Democratic candidate for Senate, pledges in one of his ads to ''repeal the bad parts of Obamacare.'' (Yet, in another ad, Mr. Manchin attacks his opponent for opposing the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions, which the governor presumably considers one of the good parts of ''Obamacare.'')
In select districts, however, Democratic candidates have gradually come to defend and even embrace the law's most popular provisions, perhaps because Republican attacks have left them little choice.
It helped, as intended, when many of those changes took effect on Sept. 23, including requirements that insurers cover children with pre-existing illnesses, cover children up to age 26 on parental policies and eliminate lifetime caps on benefits. Mr. Perriello, with reporters in tow, stopped by a Charlottesville doctor's office the day before to promote those provisions.
The Democrats have been less enthusiastic about promoting the requirement, starting in 2014, that most Americans obtain insurance or the coming tax-financed expansion of subsidized insurance.
''You can argue the Democrats should have done more with the popular parts of the bill,'' said Jonathan B. Oberlander, who teaches health care politics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ''and this speaks to the problem they have selling it, especially to insured Americans.''
At least three Democratic senators and seven House incumbents, including Mr. Perriello, have run commercials extolling the new insurance regulations. Some have directly attacked their repeal-minded opponents, as has Mr. Obama.
''The American people may have heard a lot of arguments on Capitol Hill,'' he said at a party fund-raising dinner in Minneapolis on Saturday. ''But when they see what actually is being delivered, I don't think the Republicans are going to feel so good about this repeal call.''
The second part of the Democratic response, typically delivered in debates and interviews, has been more penitent, acknowledging that the legislation emerged from an unseemly process with considerable risks and flaws.
The Democratic Senate nominee in Illinois, State Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias, was asked in a recent debate with his Republican opponent, Representative Mark Steven Kirk, whether he was running on health care reform.
''I am running on jobs; I am running on helping small businesses,'' Mr. Giannoulias said. ''Look, the health care bill was far from a perfect vehicle. That being said, I think it did some important things that the congressman wants to repeal.''
Mr. Perriello, in his debate with Mr. Hurt, volunteered that he was disappointed that the law had not altered the medical tort system.
''I don't think it makes sense to stand for something and run away from it,'' Mr. Perriello said in an interview the next day. ''On the other hand, I don't think there's a single person in the country who didn't have a better bill in mind.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BALLOTS (72%)

PERSON: ROBERT HURT (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010



761 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The Age of Alzheimer's

BYLINE: By SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR, STANLEY PRUSINER and KEN DYCHTWALD. 
Sandra Day O'Connor is a retired associate justice of the Supreme Court. Stanley Prusiner, who received the 1997 Nobel Prize in Medicine, is the director of the Institute for Neurodegenerative Diseases at the University of California, San Francisco. Ken Dychtwald, a psychologist and gerontologist, is the chief executive of a company that consults with businesses about the aging world population.

 BODY:
OUR government is ignoring what is likely to become the single greatest threat to the health of Americans: Alzheimer's disease, an illness that is 100 percent incurable and 100 percent fatal. It attacks rich and poor, white-collar and blue, and women and men, without regard to party. A degenerative disease, it steadily robs its victims of memory, judgment and dignity, leaves them unable to care for themselves and destroys their brain and their identity -- often depleting their caregivers and families both emotionally and financially.
Starting on Jan. 1, our 79-million-strong baby boom generation will be turning 65 at the rate of one every eight seconds. That means more than 10,000 people per day, or more than four million per year, for the next 19 years facing an increased risk of Alzheimer's. Although the symptoms of this disease and other forms of dementia seldom appear before middle age, the likelihood of their appearance doubles every five years after age 65. Among people over 85 (the fastest-growing segment of the American population), dementia afflicts one in two. It is estimated that 13.5 million Americans will be stricken with Alzheimer's by 2050 -- up from five million today. 
Just as President John F. Kennedy, in 1961, dedicated the United States to landing a man on the moon by the end of the decade, we must now set a goal of stopping Alzheimer's by 2020. We must deploy sufficient resources, scientific talent and problem-solving technologies to save our collective future.
As things stand today, for each penny the National Institutes of Health spends on Alzheimer's research, we spend more than $3.50 on caring for people with the condition. This explains why the financial cost of not conducting adequate research is so high. The United States spends $172 billion a year to care for people with Alzheimer's. By 2020 the cumulative price tag, in current dollars, will be $2 trillion, and by 2050, $20 trillion.
If we could simply postpone the onset of Alzheimer's disease by five years, a large share of nursing home beds in the United States would empty. And if we could eliminate it, as Jonas Salk wiped out polio with his vaccine, we would greatly expand the potential of all Americans to live long, healthy and productive lives -- and save trillions of dollars doing it.
Experience has taught us that we cannot avoid Alzheimer's disease by having regular medical checkups, by being involved in nourishing relationships or by going to the gym or filling in crossword puzzles. Ronald Reagan suffered the ravages of this disease for a decade despite the support of his loving family, the extraordinary stimulation of his work, his access to the best medical care and his high level of physical fitness. What's needed are new medicines that attack the causes of the disease directly.
So far, only a handful of medications have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat Alzheimer's, and these can only slightly and temporarily modify symptoms like forgetfulness, disorientation and confusion. None actually slows the underlying neurodegeneration.
In the mid-1980s, when our country finally made a commitment to fight AIDS, it took roughly 10 years of sustained investment (and about $10 billion) to create the antiretroviral therapies that made AIDS a manageable disease. These medicines also added $1.4 trillion to the American economy. The National Institutes of Health still spend about $3 billion a year on AIDS research, while Alzheimer's, with five times as many victims, receives a mere $469 million.
Most of the medical researchers who study Alzheimer's agree on what they have to understand in order to create effective drugs: They must find out how the aberrant proteins associated with the disease develop in the brain. They need to model the progression of the illness so they can pinpoint drug targets. And ultimately they must learn how to get drugs to move safely from the blood into the brain.
A breakthrough is possible by 2020, leading Alzheimer's scientists agree, with a well-designed and adequately financed national strategic plan. Congress has before it legislation that would raise the annual federal investment in Alzheimer's research to $2 billion, and require that the president designate an official whose sole job would be to develop and execute a strategy against Alzheimer's. If lawmakers could pass this legislation in their coming lame-duck session, they would take a serious first step toward meeting the 2020 goal.
Medical science has the capacity to relegate Alzheimer's to the list of former diseases like typhoid, polio and many childhood cancers. But unless we get to work now, any breakthrough will come too late to benefit the baby boomers. Whether the aging of America turns out to be a triumph or a tragedy will depend on our ability to fight this horrific disease and beat it before it beats us.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (94%); DEMENTIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); VACCINES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



762 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: A Hudson Tunnel That Goes One Way

BYLINE: By MARY E. FORSBERG. 
Mary E. Forsberg is the director of research for New Jersey Policy Perspective, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that conducts research and analysis on fiscal issues.

 BODY:
Trenton
ON Wednesday, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey announced that he was canceling the proposed Hudson River rail tunnel known as Access to the Region's Core, saying that his state is unable to pay its share of what he believes will be a $10 billion to $13 billion project after cost overruns. He had made the same declaration a few weeks ago, but was persuaded by Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood to give the proposal more thought.
The region is in desperate need of the tunnel. Every day, about 275,000 New Jerseyans commute across the Hudson River to New York. During rush hour, Amtrak and regional trains are full and the two Hudson River tunnels are near or at capacity. The third tunnel would provide room for 70,000 more New Jerseyans to reach Manhattan each day. 
So Governor Christie's position is shortsighted -- but he also has a point: New Jersey is being asked to shoulder too much of the burden for the project. Where, specifically, is New York's contribution to the effort? Original estimates put the project's cost at $8.7 billion, with New Jersey chipping in $2.7 billion and the federal government and Port Authority of New York and New Jersey each contributing $3 billion.
In other words, New Jersey would have to shell out more than its fair share for the tunnel project, while New York, which stands to gain in a number of big ways, would pay nothing.
Already, serious imbalances exist between New York and New Jersey. More people commute into New York than into New Jersey -- and all those commuters calculate how much income tax they owe New York State and take that as a credit against what they owe New Jersey. Because effective income tax rates are higher in New York, they pay little, if anything, to their home state. (New York salaries are, on average, 60 percent higher than in New Jersey, according to a recent report by the Regional Plan Association.)
This tax agreement between the states represents a huge revenue loss to New Jersey, more than $2 billion in income taxes that could be used, say, to support its schools. And that number would likely grow if a new tunnel made it faster and easier to commute into the city.
The solution here is simple: those who would benefit should share the cost. To match New Jersey's contribution, New York should dedicate the billions of dollars of income taxes that it annually collects from New Jersey residents toward construction of the tunnel. That way each party would have a quarter in the kitty.
If New York were to become a true partner in this project, Governor Christie might be more likely to cover New Jersey's share of the tunnel's cost. And despite his state's well-known budget woes, Mr. Christie does have options for raising the money -- he just refuses to acknowledge them.
For starters, New Jersey should raise its gas tax to improve the state's transportation network. The tax, at 14.5 cents per gallon, is the third lowest in the nation and hasn't been increased since 1988. The state's gas is so cheap that every driver in the region knows to fill his tank here -- about 30 percent of gas sales in the state are to out-of-state drivers.
An increase of 15 cents a gallon would generate about $750 million annually. At 29.5 cents per gallon, New Jersey's rate would still be lower than that of most states in the region. And it's a fair deal for drivers, because more commuters traveling by train would mean less traffic congestion on the roads. The state should also require drivers to pay sales tax on gasoline purchases. Several states -- including New York -- do this. With gas at $2.50 per gallon, applying sales tax would raise another $750 million a year for the state.
Beyond just helping to transport more commuters, the tunnel was expected to create 6,000 construction jobs and at least 40,000 permanent jobs of all sorts in both New York and New Jersey. Research also suggested that within eight years of opening, Access to the Region's Core would add $18 billion to residential and commercial property values within two miles of New Jersey Transit and Metro-North stations.
The tunnel would increase the reliability of commuter trains, reduce car traffic, drive economic growth and increase home values. Governor Christie must recognize that the benefits of the project outweigh his anti-tax rhetoric. And New York must recognize its responsibility to share the costs as well as the future benefits of the new tunnel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); PORT AUTHORITIES (51%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



763 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAKHAN CORRIDOR JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: In Icy Tip of Afghanistan, War Seems as Remote as Tropics

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BOZAI GUMBAZ, Afghanistan -- As the pickup truck bounced toward a remote village deep in northeastern Afghanistan, the young woman was told by her companions that she could toss her burqa aside.
''It's free here,'' said the woman, Zarmina Nazaria, a 26-year-old nurse. She slipped off her powder-blue burqa and laid it on the rear seat.
The rules that apply to the rest of Afghanistan are often irrelevant in the Wakhan Corridor, a frigid, finger-shaped stretch of land squeezed between Tajikistan, Pakistan and China that is cut off from the Afghan heartland by the icy ramparts of the Hindu Kush. Here, the one constant of life for most Afghans -- war -- is as distant as a tropical wind.
From the Soviet invasion to the civil war to the Taliban takeover to the anti-Taliban resistance, the Wakhan has remained largely free of strife. No Taliban show their faces here, nor do American soldiers. Villagers train to be wildlife rangers, not army rangers. The prevalent brand of Islam, Ismailism, is moderate; its spiritual leader, the Aga Khan, is a billionaire society figure in Paris. 
Foreign tourists are trickling in, about 200 during each of the past two summers. The trekkers and mountaineers are following in the footsteps of explorers like Marco Polo and Sir Aurel Stein. This year, British and Polish expeditions climbed 20,000-foot peaks in the area.
Long ignored by Kabul, the people lack the most basic services. But nongovernmental groups have a growing presence, finding it easier to work here than in more violent parts of Afghanistan. Greg Mortenson, co-author of ''Three Cups of Tea,'' has built 11 schools in the corridor through his nonprofit group, the Central Asia Institute. Foreign employees of the Wildlife Conservation Society track snow leopards and train local rangers.
''There has been no war and no violence in the Wakhan,'' said Malang Daria, a local trekking guide who was part of a 2009 French-Afghan expedition that climbed Noshaq, at 24,580 feet Afghanistan's highest peak. ''The people here are very peaceful, very calm.''
More than 12,000 people live in the 220-mile corridor, a series of broad valleys and high-altitude plateaus carved by the Panj River. A vast majority are ethnic Wakhi. As Ismailis, they eschew some of the mainstream conventions of Islam. They do not fast during Ramadan, for example, which is unheard of elsewhere in Afghanistan, where conservative Sunnis predominate.
''Ismailis have a modernist outlook,'' said John Mock, a scholar of South Asia at the University of California at Santa Cruz. ''The Aga Khan promotes modernism.''
Wakhi villages dot Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan and China. The Wakhan Corridor should logically be part of Tajikistan or Pakistan, but an 1895 agreement between Britain and Russia made it an Afghan-controlled buffer zone to prevent their two empires from touching.
The corridor has remained a no man's land. It is so remote that the people still live on a barter economy. During the summer, they trade sheep, goats and yaks, usually their only valuables, to merchants who arrive on horseback bearing clothing and other luxury items. Some are resentful of the outsiders, who resell the livestock at a substantial profit.
Wakhi herders tend flocks of sheep, and women in traditional red dresses work the wheat and barley fields. They don burqas only when going to Ishkashim, a village at the western mouth of the corridor where half the residents are Sunni Tajiks. Some Wakhi traders cross freely between Afghanistan and Pakistan over high passes.
In the eastern half, toward China, the corridor becomes a lunar bowl not unlike the Tibetan plateau. This is the Little Pamir, home to about 100 nomadic Kyrgyz families who live in felt yurts above 13,000 feet. Closer to Tajikistan, 140 Kyrgyz families live on a plateau called the Big Pamir. Blizzards are known to blow through in August.
At Bozai Gumbaz, in the heart of the Little Pamir, centuries-old beehive-shaped tombs built by the Kyrgyz sit next to rusted concertina wire left over from a Soviet military base. Beside the graves flow the waters of the Panj, better known elsewhere as the Amu Darya, born from a glacier near the Chinese border.
The Wakhan was not always sealed off from the currents of history. A branch of the Silk Road once ran through here, bringing influences from different civilizations. Outside the village of Sarhad-e Broghil, the ruins of an eighth-century Tibetan fort sit on a knoll. ''In terms of religious belief, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism and Islam have all been prevalent in the region at different times and have left their mark,'' said Andy Miller, a heritage consultant in Kabul who wrote a book on folklore of the Wakhan.
Marco Polo wandered through the valley, as did Francis E. Younghusband, the British Great Game explorer whose surprise run-in with a Russian colonel at Bozai Gumbaz led to the negotiations that would create the borders of the modern Wakhan.
Nor are the people here today untouched by the political struggles and violence that rage outside the Wakhan. Mr. Malang, the mountaineer, said his half brother, Daulat Muhammad, 40, a policeman, was killed in August while taking part in a disastrous Afghan Army battle against the Taliban around Kunduz.
Social problems endemic to other parts of Afghanistan also surface here. Opium addiction is common among the Kyrgyz nomads. In the summer settlement of Kashch Goz, several Kyrgyz spend their days smoking in their yurts. With outside help, the Wakhi largely broke their addiction years ago.
The Kyrgyz complain about a lack of attention from Kabul. They say food, running water and electricity are scarce in the Pamirs. One Kyrgyz elder, Haji Osman, recently asked President Hamid Karzai for aid. ''We're still waiting,'' he said. (Mr. Osman has less to complain about than most Kyrgyz, though: he has a satellite dish outside his yurt and a television powered by solar electricity.)
Of the nongovernmental organizations working here, the most ubiquitous are the Aga Khan Development Network and Mr. Mortenson's Central Asia Institute, which completed a school this year for the Kyrgyz at Bozai Gumbaz. ''Their leader organized 50 yaks to bring building materials through the Wakhan,'' Mr. Mortenson said.
But the school is still trying to fill its classrooms. Kyrgyz parents prefer that their children herd livestock, said Sarfraz Khan, the group's regional manager.
''We need to convince the people to send their children to school,'' he said.
When some locals discuss how the Wakhan might develop, they look east, toward the frontier with China. They say they hope that China and Afghanistan will one day open the border at the Wakhjir Pass, and that China will build a road or railway through the corridor, perhaps to gain better access to Afghanistan's rich mineral deposits. Afghan officials say they have pressed China on the question.
''The Chinese side says principally it is important, but practically it takes time and money,'' said Sultan Baheen, the Afghan ambassador to China.
Until those doors open, the Wakhan and its people will probably remain cloistered in their world of wind and ice, as they have for centuries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Kyrgyz woman going to milk her yak in the Wakhan Corridor in late August had to contend with the first snowfall of the year. (A1)
 In Langar, in the Wakhan District, traders transported yaks along a steep gorge. More photographs are at: nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAP: A moderate form of Islam prevails in mountainous Wakhan. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); WOMEN (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (88%); HIKING (87%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MAMMALS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RAMADAN (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WILDLIFE (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (67%); WILD CATS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); TAJIKISTAN (93%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (77%); FRANCE (70%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



764 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: In Spain, Homes Are Taken but Debt Remains

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY; Rachel Chaundler contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MADRID -- Manolo Marban, 59, is still living in his house in Toledo and going to work in the small pink-and-aqua pet grooming shop he bought here in 2006, when he got swept up in Spain's giddy real estate boom.
But Mr. Marban does not own either anymore. The bank foreclosed on both properties last April, and he is waiting for the courts to issue the eviction notices. For most Americans facing foreclosure, that is the end of it. But for Mr. Marban and thousands of others here, it is just the beginning of their troubles. When the gavel falls on his case, he will still owe the bank more than $140,000. ''I will be working for the bank for the rest of my life,'' Mr. Marban said recently, tears welling in his eyes. ''I will never own anything -- not even a car.'' 
The real estate and banking excesses in Spain were a lot like those in the United States. Construction boomed, prices rose at an astonishing pace and banks gave out loans just as fast, often to customers like Mr. Marban, who used the equity in his house to finance a mortgage for his shop. But those days are over. Spain now has the highest unemployment rate in the euro zone -- 20 percent -- and real estate prices are dropping. For many Spaniards, no longer able to pay their mortgages, the fine print in the deals they agreed to years ago is catching up with them.
Not only are Spanish mortgage holders personally liable for the full amount of the loan, but throw in penalty interest charges and tens of thousands of dollars in court fees, and people can end up, like Mr. Marban, facing a mountain of debt. Bankruptcy is not the answer, either. Mortgage debt is specifically excluded here.
''Effectively, you can never get rid of this debt,'' said Ada Colau, a human rights lawyer who works for Plataforma, a new advocacy group formed both to give legal advice to homeowners and to push for reform of the country's foreclosure laws. ''Other countries in the European Union also have personal debt mortgages, but you can go to the courts and get relief. Not in Spain.''
Several opposition parties in Parliament have been pressing for amendments to the country's foreclosure laws, including letting mortgage defaulters settle their debts with the bank by turning over the property. But the government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has opposed such a major change in lending practices. Government officials say Spain's system of personal guarantees saved its banks from the turmoil seen in the United States.
''It is true that we are living a hangover of a huge real estate binge,'' said Marcos Vaquer, who was the under secretary of the Housing Ministry until a government reshuffle last week. ''And it is true that far too many Spaniards have excessive debt. But we have not seen the problems of the U.S. because the guarantees here are so much better.''
Immigrants who moved to this country in the boom years and were the first to lose their jobs in the downturn, like Jaime Abelardo, have been the most severely affected so far. Mr. Abelardo arrived in Barcelona from Ecuador in 1999 with the promise of a job in a warehouse. A few years later, he could afford to bring his family over and buy a tiny apartment. Or so he thought. But within two years, he was laid off. He blames himself for not having been more cautious. Still, he cannot get over the figures printed on the dog-eared papers he has received from the bank.
They say he now owes nearly 260,000 euros, almost $360,000, which includes about 77,000 euros to cover all court costs, including the bank's, his lawyer said. He bought the apartment for less than that -- about 220,000 euros, he thinks, though many aspects of the deal were never clear to him. His wife has left him. His unemployment payments are about to run out. He would like to go back to Ecuador with his four children, but he does not have enough money. ''I'm thinking about shooting myself,'' he said.
An estimated 1.4 million Spaniards are facing potential foreclosure proceedings, according to Spain's consumer protection association, known as the Adicae. Recent figures from the courts show that the numbers are rising fast. In 2007, there were just 26,000 foreclosures. Last year, there were more than 93,000. Early indications suggest that they will be higher again in 2010.
A recent Standard & Poor's report found that 8 percent of Spain's housing is now worth less than the value of the mortgage, and with prices continuing to fall, experts believe, that figure could rise to 20 percent.
Advocates say that Spain's foreclosure procedures tilt far too much in favor of the banks, virtually guaranteeing that mortgage defaulters will end up owing large amounts after they lose their homes.
Banks have the right to auction houses in foreclosure. If no buyers appear, as is often the case these days, the bank can take ownership of the house for 50 percent of its value, according to the estimate either at the time of purchase, or at the current time, depending on what the mortgage specifies. The banks then have 15 years to go after the homeowner.
If the banks initiate proceedings at any point, the clock starts ticking again, experts say. In the meantime, the bank can charge interest on that debt.
Montse Andres Sabate, a lawyer with Ausbanc, a consumer association that specializes in banking services, says the banks usually charge 5 or 6 percent, but sometimes much more. ''We've seen 18 or even 19 percent,'' Ms. Andres said.
And then there is the matter of guarantors. Bankers pressed many homeowners to find guarantors at the time they took out the mortgages or when they began to struggle to make payments. Mario Gozalvez, a truck driver, asked his 23-year-old daughter to act as a guarantor when he used the equity in his Barcelona apartment to buy a truck three years ago. At the time, she did not even have a job, and he thought of it as a silly formality. Now, she faces a lifetime of paying off his debts.
''She may not be able to inherit anything from her mother because the bank can seize it,'' Mr. Gozalvez said. ''No one explains this.''
Early in the crisis, experts say, the banks were lenient with immigrants who had no assets and accepted the property as payment for the loan. But some advocates say they are tougher now. Under the law, the banks have the right to collect a percentage of a debtor's income if it is above $835 a month.
Santos Gonzalez Sanchez, the chairman of the Spanish Mortgage Association, says it is the bank's duty to try to collect. ''This helps to explain why our financial entities have not gone bankrupt,'' he said.
Personal liability mortgages are common in Europe. But advocates here say that aspects of Spain's procedures -- how quickly banks can foreclose, the interest rates they can charge and the repayment schedules they can demand -- are particularly severe. This month, even Mr. Zapatero's party joined in voting for a parliamentary motion to slow foreclosure proceedings.
Mr. Marban knew he was in trouble within months of buying the pet store as his business began to taper off. To keep the bank from foreclosing, he gave it whatever he could scrape together. At one point, he sold his car at a huge discount to meet a payment. Eventually, he sold his wife's gold bracelet.
But it was no good. He could never catch up on what he owed.
''It's funny, when I finally lost the house, I started sleeping,'' he said. ''I cry sometimes, but at least I sleep now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Manolo Marban, a pet groomer in Madrid, lost his home and his grooming shop to foreclosure and will still owe after eviction.
 Mario Gozalvez asked his daughter to act as a guarantor in a deal that went sour. She may spend her life paying off his debts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); PERSONAL DEBT (86%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); EVICTION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PET CARE SERVICES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CREDIT REGULATION (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); POLITICS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (51%)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (93%) SPAIN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



765 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: The Courts and the Mandate

 BODY:
Health care reform is being challenged in the courts by 21 state governments, as well as by private groups and individuals. They contend Congress has no constitutional authority to require virtually everyone to carry health insurance starting in 2014 or pay a penalty. 
The early rulings have been mixed, and the issue is likely to end up in the Supreme Court. The courts should uphold a mandate that was crafted to comply with the Constitution and is central to reform's success.
A mandate is key for reducing the ranks of the uninsured, who often turn to emergency rooms for care, driving up everyone's costs. Spreading the costs -- among healthy and sick -- is also the only way to make many of the most popular reforms work, including those that bar insurers from denying coverage to people with pre-existing conditions or from setting annual limits on benefits.
The central issue being challenged is whether Congress's powers to raise taxes for the general welfare or to regulate interstate commerce allow it to impose a health insurance mandate and penalty.
Judge George Steeh in Detroit concluded that Congress can do so. Judges Roger Vinson in Florida and Henry Hudson in Virginia balked at the idea. They placed particular weight on the fact that the new law describes the fines as a ''penalty,'' not a ''tax,'' although earlier versions had described it as a tax. They also noted that President Obama had denied that the fine was a tax while seeking support for the legislation -- yet the administration is now contending in court that it is a tax.
Instead of getting hung up on labels adopted in the heat of political battle, they should focus instead on Supreme Court precedents that found that taxes designed to influence behavior, like taxes to deter the sale of particularly dangerous firearms, were constitutional, provided they raised revenue in the process. A penalty to prod people into taking out health insurance seems little different, whatever label it is called.
The other crucial issue is whether Congress -- under the commerce clause -- can regulate a decision to not buy insurance. The judges in Florida and Virginia seemed skeptical. The Michigan judge persuasively argued that refusals to buy health insurance are economic decisions that, in the aggregate, will have a substantial impact on interstate commerce.
We agree. Most uninsured people who are badly injured or become seriously ill cannot afford to pay their medical bills. Their tab is picked up -- some $43 billion in 2008 -- by others, including federal, state and local governments and their taxpayers, health care providers, and people who are insured. We know many politicians are determined to undo health care reform -- no matter the cost to Americans. The courts should respect legal precedent and the will of Congress and leave the mandate in place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); TAX INCREASES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



766 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Wrest Title From U.S.: Fastest Supercomputer, by Far

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
A Chinese scientific research center has built the fastest supercomputer ever made, replacing the United States as maker of the swiftest machine, and giving China bragging rights as a technology superpower.
The computer, known as Tianhe-1A, has 1.4 times the horsepower of the current top computer, which is at a national laboratory in Tennessee, as measured by the standard test used to gauge how well the systems handle mathematical calculations, said Jack Dongarra, a University of Tennessee computer scientist who maintains the official supercomputer rankings.
Although the official list of the top 500 fastest machines, which comes out every six months, is not due to be completed by Mr. Dongarra until next week, he said the Chinese computer ''blows away the existing No. 1 machine.'' He added, ''We don't close the books until Nov. 1, but I would say it is unlikely we will see a system that is faster.'' 
Officials from the Chinese research center, the National University of Defense Technology, are expected to reveal the computer's performance on Thursday at a conference in Beijing. The center says it is ''under the dual supervision of the Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Education.''
The race to build the fastest supercomputer has become a source of national pride as these machines are valued for their ability to solve problems critical to national interests in areas like defense, energy, finance and science. Supercomputing technology also finds its way into mainstream business; oil and gas companies use it to find reservoirs and Wall Street traders use it for superquick automated trades. Procter & Gamble even uses supercomputers to make sure that Pringles go into cans without breaking.
And typically, research centers with large supercomputers are magnets for top scientific talent, adding significance to the presence of the machines well beyond just cranking through calculations.
Over the last decade, the Chinese have steadily inched up in the rankings of supercomputers. Tianhe-1A stands as the culmination of billions of dollars in investment and scientific development, as China has gone from a computing afterthought to a world technology superpower.
''What is scary about this is that the U.S. dominance in high-performance computing is at risk,'' said Wu-chun Feng, a supercomputing expert and professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. ''One could argue that this hits the foundation of our economic future.''
Modern supercomputers are built by combining thousands of small computer servers and using software to turn them into a single entity. In that sense, any organization with enough money and expertise can buy what amount to off-the-shelf components and create a fast machine.
The Chinese system follows that model by linking thousands upon thousands of chips made by the American companies Intel and Nvidia. But the secret sauce behind the system -- and the technological achievement -- is the interconnect, or networking technology, developed by Chinese researchers that shuttles data back and forth across the smaller computers at breakneck rates, Mr. Dongarra said.
''That technology was built by them,'' Mr. Dongarra said. ''They are taking supercomputing very seriously and making a deep commitment.''
The Chinese interconnect can handle data at about twice the speed of a common interconnect called InfiniBand used in many supercomputers.
For decades, the United States has developed most of the underlying technology that goes into the massive supercomputers and has built the largest, fastest machines at research laboratories and universities. Some of the top systems simulate the effects of nuclear weapons, while others predict the weather and aid in energy research.
In 2002, the United States lost its crown as supercomputing kingpin for the first time in stunning fashion when Japan unveiled a machine with more horsepower than the top 20 American computers combined. The United States government responded in kind, forming groups to plot a comeback and pouring money into supercomputing projects. The United States regained its leadership status in 2004, and has kept it, until now.
At the computing conference on Thursday in China, the researchers will discuss how they are using the new system for scientific research in fields like astrophysics and bio-molecular modeling. Tianhe-1A, which is housed in a building at the National Supercomputing Center in Tianjin, can perform mathematical operations about 29 million times faster than one of the earliest supercomputers, built in 1976.
For the record, it performs 2.5 times 10 to the 15th power mathematical operations per second.
Mr. Dongarra said a long-running Chinese project to build chips to rival those from Intel and others remained under way and looked promising. ''It's not quite there yet, but it will be in a year or two,'' he said.
He also said that in November, when the list comes out, he expected a second Chinese computer to be in the top five, culminating years of investment.
''The Japanese came out of nowhere and really caught people off guard,'' Mr. Feng said. ''With China, you could see this one coming.''
Steven J. Wallach, a well-known computer designer, played down the importance of taking the top spot on the supercomputer rankings.
''It's interesting, but it's like getting to the four-minute mile,'' Mr. Wallach said. ''The world didn't stop. This is just a snapshot in time.''
The research labs often spend weeks tuning their systems to perform well on the standard horsepower test. But just because a system can hammer through trillions of calculations per second does not mean it will do well on the specialized jobs that researchers want to use it for, Mr. Wallach added.
The United States has plans in place to make much faster machines out of proprietary components and to advance the software used by these systems so that they are easy for researchers to use. But those computers remain years away, and for now, China is king.
''They want to show they are No. 1 in the world, no matter what it is,'' Mr. Wallach said. ''I don't blame them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Tianhe-1A computer in Tianjin, China, links thousands upon thousands of chips. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NVIDIA) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERCOMPUTERS (92%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RANKINGS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); MATHEMATICS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); NVIDIA CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



767 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: End The War On Pot

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
I dropped in on a marijuana shop here that proudly boasted that it sells ''31 flavors.'' It also offered a loyalty program. For every 10 purchases of pot -- supposedly for medical uses -- you get one free packet.
''There are five of these shops within a three-block radius,'' explained the proprietor, Edward J. Kim. He brimmed with pride at his inventory and sounded like any small businessman as he complained about onerous government regulation. Like, well, state and federal laws. 
But those burdensome regulations are already evaporating in California, where anyone who can fake a headache already can buy pot. Now there's a significant chance that on Tuesday, California voters will choose to go further and broadly legalize marijuana.
I hope so. Our nearly century-long experiment in banning marijuana has failed as abysmally as Prohibition did, and California may now be pioneering a saner approach. Sure, there are risks if California legalizes pot. But our present drug policy has three catastrophic consequences.
First, it squanders billions of dollars that might be better used for education. California now spends more money on prisons than on higher education. It spends about $216,000 per year on each juvenile detainee, and just $8,000 on each child in the troubled Oakland public school system.
Each year, some 750,000 Americans are arrested for possession of small amounts of marijuana. Is that really the optimal use of our police force?
In contrast, legalizing and taxing marijuana would bring in substantial sums that could be used to pay for schools, libraries or early childhood education. A Harvard economist, Jeffrey A. Miron, calculates that marijuana could generate $8.7 billion in tax revenue each year if legalized nationally, while legalization would also save the same sum annually in enforcement costs.
That's a $17 billion swing in the nation's finances -- enough to send every 3- and 4-year-old in a poor family to a high-quality preschool. And that's an investment that would improve education outcomes and reduce crime and drug use in the future -- with enough left over to pay for an extensive nationwide campaign to discourage drug use.
The second big problem with the drug war is that it has exacerbated poverty and devastated the family structure of African-Americans. Partly that's because drug laws are enforced inequitably. Black and Latino men are much more likely than whites to be stopped and searched and, when drugs are found, prosecuted.
Here in Los Angeles, blacks are arrested for marijuana possession at seven times the rate whites are, according to a study by the Drug Policy Alliance, which favors legalization. Yet surveys consistently find that young whites use marijuana at higher rates than young blacks.
Partly because of drug laws, a black man now has a one-in-three chance of serving time in prison at some point in his life, according to the Sentencing Project, a group that seeks reform in the criminal justice system. This makes it more difficult for black men to find jobs, more difficult for black women to find suitable husbands, and less common for black children to grow up in stable families with black male role models. So, sure, drugs have devastated black communities -- but the remedy of criminal sentencing has made the situation worse.
The third problem with our drug policy is that it creates crime and empowers gangs. ''The only groups that benefit from continuing to keep marijuana illegal are the violent gangs and cartels that control its distribution and reap immense profits from it through the black market,'' a group of current and former police officers, judges and prosecutors wrote last month in an open letter to voters in California.
I have no illusions about drugs. One of my childhood friends in Yamhill, Ore., pretty much squandered his life by dabbling with marijuana in ninth grade and then moving on to stronger stuff. And yes, there's some risk that legalization would make such dabbling more common. But that hasn't been a significant problem in Portugal, which decriminalized drug use in 2001.
Likewise, medical marijuana laws approved in 1996 have in effect made pot accessible to any adult in California, without any large increase in usage. Special medical clinics abound where for about $45 you can see a doctor who is certain to give you the medical recommendation that you need to buy marijuana. Then you can visit Mr. Kim and choose one of his 31 varieties, topping out at a private ''OG'' brand that costs $75 for one-eighth of an ounce. ''It's like a fine wine, cured, aged, dried,'' he boasted.
Or browse the online offerings. One store advertises: ''refer a friend, get free joint.'' And the world hasn't ended.
One advantage of our federal system is that when we have a failed policy, we can grope for improvements by experimenting at the state level. I hope California will lead the way on Tuesday by legalizing marijuana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (92%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); CHILDREN (71%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); MEN (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); POLICE FORCES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



768 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Remember Renewable Energy?

 BODY:
Global warming, energy independence and good 21st-century jobs are three compelling reasons why Washington must do a lot more to promote renewable energy. Congress seemed to get it in 2005 when it directed the Interior Department to approve enough wind, solar and other projects on public land to produce 10,000 megawatts by 2015 -- enough to heat, cool and light five million homes. Not much has happened since. 
The George W. Bush administration was fixated on oil and gas exploration. The Obama administration was slow to get going. Until a little over three weeks ago, the Interior Department had approved more than 73,000 oil and gas leases since 2005, but only one offshore wind energy project and not a single solar project.
Things are beginning to turn around. In recent weeks, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar has approved six large-scale solar power projects on public land -- five in California, one in Nevada -- that together will provide enough power for as many as two million homes.
He also gave final approval to the country's first commercial offshore wind farm, off the coast of Massachusetts. And a group of companies including Google announced plans to build an underwater transmission system to carry wind-generated power from public lands on the Atlantic Coast to Eastern cities.
All this is very good news. But this country had already fallen far behind Europe and China, which are investing heavily in the industries that manufacture wind turbines and solar panels. Three things need to happen, quickly, if there is any hope of catching up:
GENEROUS SUBSIDIES Renewable energy projects will require significant federal help until they can compete with cheaper and dirtier fuels like coal, oil and natural gas. Congress has provided a variety of tax credits and loan guarantees, but the support has been erratic. When the production tax credit expired at the end of 2003, development of newly installed wind capacity fell from 1,687 megawatts to less than 400 the following year.
Investors will remain cautious until Congress commits to multiyear programs of support. Most immediately, it needs to extend a grant program for new wind and solar projects that was part of the 2009 stimulus package. Grants worth more than $2 billion have since jump-started hundreds of projects, creating thousands of jobs.
FASTER APPROVALS It took three to five years of complex negotiations before the Interior Department signed off on the new solar projects. The Cape Wind project off Massachusetts had to run a gantlet of state and federal agencies and needed nine years to get a final permit.
Mr. Salazar has reorganized the old Minerals Management Service, which regulates offshore wind projects in addition to oil and gas development, to make it more responsive, and directed the department to identify promising sites and develop a swifter regulatory process. The bureaucracy now has to deliver.
TRANSMISSION Updating and expanding the electrical grid to accommodate new sources of energy will be the biggest challenge, and will require partnerships among states, federal authorities, the utilities and private investors. The Google project could be crucial to delivering wind power to Eastern cities, but major investments will also be needed in the West and Southwest. President Obama recently declared that no industry has greater potential to create jobs than clean energy. He is right. But it is never going to happen unless the administration and Congress do a lot more to push it ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); SOLAR ENERGY (91%); APPROVALS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (70%); OIL & GAS LEASES (70%); TURBINE MFG (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



769 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Coalition That Vaulted Democrats Into Power Has Frayed, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Marjorie Connelly, Dalia Sussman and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Critical parts of the coalition that delivered President Obama to the White House in 2008 and gave Democrats control of Congress in 2006 are switching their allegiance to the Republicans in the final phase of the midterm Congressional elections, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
Republicans have wiped out the advantage held by Democrats in recent election cycles among women, Roman Catholics, less affluent Americans and independents. All of those groups broke for Mr. Obama in 2008 and for Congressional Democrats when they grabbed both chambers from the Republicans four years ago, according to exit polls.
If women choose Republicans over Democrats in House races on Tuesday, it will be the first time they have done so since exit polls began tracking the breakdown in 1982. 
The poll provides a pre-Election Day glimpse of a nation so politically disquieted and disappointed in its current trajectory that 57 percent of the registered voters surveyed said they were more willing to take a chance this year on a candidate with little previous political experience. More than a quarter of them said they were even willing to back a candidate who holds some views that ''seem extreme.''
On the issue most driving the campaign, the economy, Republicans have erased the traditional advantage held by Democrats as the party seen as better able to create jobs; the parties are now even on that measure. By a wide margin, Republicans continue to be seen as the party better able to reduce the federal budget deficit.
The public wants compromise from both sides, though it thinks Mr. Obama will try to do so more than Republicans will. Yet for all of its general unhappiness, the electorate does not seem to be offering any clear guidance for Mr. Obama and the incoming Congress -- whoever controls it -- on the big issues.
While almost 9 in 10 respondents said they considered government spending to be an important issue, and more than half said they favored smaller government offering fewer services, there was no consensus on what programs should be cut. There was clear opposition to addressing one of the government's biggest long-term challenges -- the growing costs of paying Social Security benefits -- by raising the retirement age or reducing benefits for future retirees. Support for one of Mr. Obama's main economic proposals -- raising taxes on income above $250,000 a year -- has declined substantially over the course of this year.
Though Republicans have managed to keep Democrats on the defensive over the health care plan they enacted this year, the poll also shows Americans remain divided over Republican promises to repeal it. Forty-five percent said the law should stand, and 41 percent said it should go.
The poll does not measure the strength of individual candidates in specific districts, where indeterminate factors like voter turnout and even weather can affect results. And the poll, taken nationally Thursday through Tuesday with interviews of 1,173 adults, did not ask about United States Senate contests, as 14 states do not have Senate races this year. (The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.)
But it does offer a clear indication of party strength at the end of what has been a particularly intense and hard-fought midterm campaign with more bad news than good for Mr. Obama and his party.
Over all, 46 percent of likely voters said they would vote for Republicans and 40 percent said they would support Democrats.
A higher percentage of Americans continues to have a more favorable opinion of the Democratic Party than of the Republican Party, with 46 percent favoring Democrats and 41 favoring Republicans. But the Republicans' favorability rating in the New York Times/CBS poll is at its highest level since September 2006.
Disapproval of Congress, however, remains near its highest level in the history of the Times/CBS poll: 76 percent of respondents disapproved, 14 percent approved, and 10 percent expressed no opinion.
Mr. Obama's approval rating remains below 50 percent. It is 43 percent among registered voters, which is about where President Bill Clinton's approval rating was in the 1994 midterm elections when Republicans swept control of the House and the Senate.
Yet nearly 60 percent of Americans were optimistic about Mr. Obama's next two years in office and nearly 70 percent said the economic slump is temporary. Half said the economy was where they expected it would be at this point, and less than 10 percent blamed the current administration for the state of the economy, leaving the onus on former President George W. Bush and Wall Street.
Still, Mr. Obama and the Democrats in Congress have their work cut out for them if they intend to rebuild the voting coalition that gave them their current positions at the levers of power, whatever the outcome on Election Day.
In the case of women -- a traditionally Democratic-leaning group that the White House has been courting actively in recent weeks -- the shift toward the Republicans was marked in the latest poll, especially when compared with their stated preferences in the last Times/CBS poll, in mid-September.
In the earlier poll, women favored Democrats over Republicans by seven percentage points. In the latest poll, women said they were likely to support a Republican over a Democrat by four percentage points, suggesting Republican gains among women who were undecided as of last month.
But the shift extended geographically, as well. Among poll respondents from the Western United States, more said they expected to vote for Republicans this year than said they expected to vote for Democrats; majorities of voters from that region voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 and for Congressional Democrats in 2006, according to the exit polls taken in those elections.
The Democratic House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi, clearly emerged as a political liability for her party in the latest Times/CBS poll. Over all, 43 percent of respondents had an unfavorable opinion of Ms. Pelosi; 15 percent had a favorable opinion, and 40 percent said they had no opinion. The minority leader in the House who would probably become the speaker if Republicans win the majority, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, remains largely unknown. Three quarters of respondents said they had no opinion of him.
In a follow-up interview, one poll respondent, Judy Berg, an independent from Morton Grove, Ill., said she voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 because she was ''looking for a change,'' adding, ''the change that ensued was not the change I was looking for but something totally out of left field.''
This year, Ms. Berg, a registered nurse, expressed a preference for Republicans because ''I'm pro-life and I'm also looking at the immigration issues and the tax issues.'' She added, ''I like the Republican agenda on these issues better than the Democratic agenda.''
Like several other national polls, the latest Times/CBS poll shows a considerable ''enthusiasm gap'' between Republicans and Democrats. Six in 10 Republicans said they were more enthusiastic about voting this year than usual. Four in 10 Democrats said the same.
The poll includes indications that Republicans will have their own challenges should they gain control of one or both chambers of Congress with a new crop of lawmakers who identify with the Tea Party.
About 6 in 10 Republicans who are likely to vote think the views of most Republicans are consistent with those of the Tea Party movement, which, though diffuse, has had success this year in arguing that Republicans have been too eager to choose compromise over principle.
Yet 78 percent of respondents said they believed Republicans in Congress should compromise some of their positions to get things done and 15 percent said they should stick to their positions even if it means getting less done. Similar percentages said they wanted Democrats to choose compromise over principle.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: CHART (A1)
 Many Groups Blue in '08 Are Now Red: Some demographic groups that voted Democratic in 2008 and 2006 are now favoring Republican candidates this year, according to the latest Times/CBS News poll. Exit polls taken in the 2008 presidential election and in the 2006 House vote showed a more Democratic-leaning population than those in the 1994 House vote. Data for 1994, 2006 and 2008 are based on national exit polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky and Voter News Service. Data for 2010 are based on a New York Times/CBS News poll of telephone interviews with 1,173 registered voters weighted to a probable electorate. Those without a preference or who support third-party candidates were removed before percentages were computed. (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BUDGETS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); RETIREMENT AGE (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); RELIGION (56%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



770 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Links Foreclosure Ills To Home Prices

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The uncertainty over the legal status of foreclosed homes in the nation could further depress home prices and delay the recovery of the housing market, the Obama administration said on Wednesday.
The warning came at the first Congressional hearing since the magnitude of the problem gained wide attention. Distressed properties make up one quarter of all home sales.
Revelations about paperwork shortcuts and so-called robo-signed affidavits, as well as the likelihood of protracted legal battles by homeowners and inquiries by state and federal officials, will hinder foreclosure proceedings and discourage prospective buyers, a Treasury Department official said.
''Together, these two factors may exert downward pressure on overall housing prices both in the short and long run,'' said the official, Phyllis R. Caldwell, chief of the homeownership preservation office at the Treasury. 
Most at risk, it appears, are communities in the states with the greatest concentrations of foreclosures -- led by Nevada, Florida, Arizona and California -- where the turnover of vacant properties could screech to a halt if a joint investigation being conducted by all 50 states, and reviews by the Obama administration and regulators like the Federal Reserve, uncover additional wrongdoing.
The administration's testimony did little to soothe members of the Congressional Oversight Panel overseeing the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the 2008 bailout, who said the bungled foreclosures could set back the nation's fragile economic recovery.
''If investors lose confidence in the ability of banks to document their ownership of mortgages, the financial industry could suffer staggering losses,'' the panel's chairman, Senator Edward E. Kaufman, Democrat of Delaware, told Ms. Caldwell. ''The possibility is especially alarming, coming so soon after taxpayers spent billions of dollars to bail out these very same institutions.''
Another panel member, Richard H. Neiman, the New York State banking superintendent, asked, ''How do we continue to look homeowners in the eye and ask them to continue to work with their servicers given the latest news pertaining to faulty documents and fraudulent affidavits?''
While banks and mortgage servicers are bracing for a wave of lawsuits over flawed paperwork, Ms. Caldwell said the government believed the overall risks to the financial system were slim.
''We're very closely monitoring any litigation risk to see if there is any systemic threat, but at this point, there's no indication that there is,'' she testified.
Other witnesses were less sanguine, telling the panel that financial institutions like Bank of America, the nation's largest consumer bank, had understated the dimensions of the problem.
Katherine M. Porter, a law professor at the University of Iowa and an authority on mortgage servicers, said it was likely that ''a very large number -- perhaps virtually all -- securitized loans made in the boom period in the mid-2000s,'' contained serious paperwork flaws, did not meet underwriting standards or have not been serviced properly in foreclosure proceedings.
''Mortgage servicing is a high-volume industry,'' Professor Porter testified. ''Its personnel have relatively little training, weak supervision and are under pressure to cut costs and boost profits.''
Along with Bank of America, GMAC Mortgage, JPMorgan Chase and the PNC Financial Services Group have suspended some foreclosure proceedings since late September, though some institutions have resumed them. The industry has maintained that the mistakes were limited in scope and under control, but Professor Porter said they should be ''treated as part of a pattern or practice of illegal behavior and not as isolated incidents.''
Professor Porter said litigation was emerging along two fronts: homeowners are contesting foreclosures, and investors are charging that shoddy loan originations or servicing have increased their losses. These investors are trying to force banks to buy back or repurchase loans that were packaged and sold as investments.
Guy D. Cecala, chief executive of Inside Mortgage Finance, which publishes newsletters and research for the industry, said that most mortgage executives believed the problems ''are largely procedural and can be corrected fairly quickly.''
However, he acknowledged that the industry's view could be wrong. ''The risk is that some of the investigations now under way uncover criminal misconduct or large-scale errors that force foreclosures to be put on hold for an extended period of time,'' he said.
Julia Gordon, a lawyer at the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit consumer group, said that buyers had ''become skittish'' about so-called real-estate-owned properties, which sit on a bank's books after an unsuccessful foreclosure auction, because they thought that the title to the home might not be good.
''To get the market working again, buyers need assurances that the foreclosures are legal and not vulnerable to challenge,'' she said. ''Having banks claim to fix thousands of mortgages within a couple of weeks without more information is unlikely to restore public confidence.''
Ms. Gordon urged a ''temporary pause'' on foreclosures to review the banks' procedures, echoing calls by groups like the National Community Reinvestment Coalition. But the Obama administration has resisted a nationwide moratorium, with the housing secretary, Shaun Donovan, saying it would ''do far more harm than good.''
The recent disclosures have further complicated matters for the administration, which has faced withering criticism from Republicans and Democrats over the pace and effectiveness of its effort to mitigate foreclosures.
The Treasury revealed on Monday that the pace of mortgage modifications slowed in September. Fewer than 470,000 households have gotten permanent modifications under the Home Affordable Modification Program, which began in 2009 and is voluntary but gives lenders incentives to participate.
That number is far fewer than the administration's goal of helping three million to four million households avoid foreclosure by the end of 2012.
Although 1.3 million households have been offered trial modifications, in many cases, homeowners have been unable to convert temporary modifications into permanent ones because they could not document that they had the income to support the new, lower payments.
A report this week by the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program said that 5.5 million homes had been the subject of foreclosure filings and that 1.7 million homeowners had lost their homes since January 2009.
''A program that began with much promise now must be counted among those that risk generating public anger and mistrust,'' the official, Neil M. Barofsky, concluded.
At the hearing on Wednesday, a Republican member of the oversight panel, J. Mark McWatters, said, ''The administration has inadvertently created a sense of false expectations among millions of homeowners who reasonably anticipated that they would have the opportunity to modify or refinance their troubled mortgage loans.''
The Democratic members of the panel -- Mr. Kaufman, Mr. Neiman and Damon A. Silvers, a lawyer at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- did not come to the Treasury's defense.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phyllis Caldwell of the Treasury said Wednesday that the government believed the overall risks to the financial system were slim. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (86%); BAILOUTS (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WITNESSES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SECURITIZATION (65%); RETAIL BANKING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TED KAUFMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



771 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Why the Democrats Are Struggling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Second Thoughts'' (column, Oct. 26):
David Brooks is to be forgiven -- Democrats are richly deserving of the satire. He suggests that it is not that ''Americans are nearsighted and ill-informed,'' as Democrats would believe, but rather that ''parties that promote unpopular policies tend to get punished at election time.''
What a coincidence -- those are the same thing! 
Bailouts are unpopular -- especially with those who don't know the difference between the short-term problem of the banking crisis and the long-term problem of deficits (nearsighted), and those who don't know that most of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, is being paid back (ill informed).
Health care is unpopular -- especially among those who don't know that much of the reform hasn't taken effect yet (nearsighted), and those who think it's socialism (ill informed).
And financial regulation is unpopular, especially with those who don't remember it was deregulation that caused the crisis (nearsighted, even in hindsight), and those who still believe markets are rational (spectacularly ill informed).
In short, the Democratic and Republican narratives of this election are in complete agreement -- Americans are indeed nearsighted and ill informed, just as Republicans wanted them to be, and their blindness and ignorance will indeed inform their votes.
David Berman New York, Oct. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
David Brooks is correct in his basic assertion that Democrats have lost touch with those who propelled them to a majority. But he leaves out a crucial point -- the Republicans are just as bad.
Neither of the parties has advanced any compelling strategy for going forward, and they instead expect us to have infinite patience with their continuous finger pointing, character assassination and failure to buckle down and accomplish real change.
We have real problems and need adults to solve these problems. This is not about one party getting it right -- they both are seriously inept.
When will they start working and stop wasting our time?
David Paige New York, Oct. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
I laughed out loud at David Brooks's marvelous sendup of the Democrats' ''feel good'' campaign.
But when he equates the ''millions of anonymous dollars'' raised by the Democrats in 2006 and 2008 -- which were anonymous because the individual contributions were so small -- with the millions contributed to the Republicans in this election by big spenders whose anonymity is protected by the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, Mr. Brooks shifts from satire to sophistry.
Samuel Reifler Rhinebeck, N.Y., Oct. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
David Brooks chides Democrats for lavishing attention on Tea Party extremists while ignoring Republicans like Roy Blunt and John Boozman, writing, ''It doesn't feel good when your opponents are experienced people who simply have different points of view.''
But when opponents like Mr. Blunt and many other ''serious'' Republicans question the separation of church and state guaranteed in the Constitution; when they oppose prohibiting job discrimination based on sexual orientation, denying equal rights to all Americans; when they fail to exercise Congress's right to regulate commerce and push for unregulated markets, they are no longer simply espousing ''different points of view.''
They are standing against the bedrock principles of the Constitution that they so strongly claim they want to uphold. Such reactionary thinking will lead only to a weaker, less equal, less just America -- a process that, under their principles, is already well under way.
Michael Vines New York, Oct. 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); BANK FAILURES (70%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



772 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders and New-Home Sales Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Sales of new homes improved last month after the worst summer in nearly five decades, but not enough to lift the struggling economy, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. 
In a second report, the department said that a surge in demand for commercial aircraft lifted orders for big-ticket manufactured goods in September, but that business spending -- a sign of expansion -- weakened.
Orders for durable goods rose 3.3 percent last month. Over all, it was the best showing since January. But excluding transportation, orders fell 0.8 percent after having risen 1.9 percent in August.
Spending by companies on capital goods excluding aircraft dropped 0.6 percent after rising 4.8 percent in August. The category is viewed as a good proxy for business investment.
The report showed that manufacturing, one of the bright spots in the current lackluster economy, is moving forward but at a slower pace than earlier this year.
Demand for communications equipment fell 18.6 percent. Orders for primary metals like steel dropped 0.5 percent. Orders for computers and related electronic products rose 2 percent and orders for heavy machinery were also up 2 percent.
Demand for transportation equipment jumped 15.7 percent, the best showing since January. It is a very volatile category that had fallen 30 percent in August.
The surge offset a 0.4 percent drop in demand for motor vehicles last month after a 5.1 percent decline in August.
The overall economy is expected to show growth of around 2 percent in the third quarter. The government will release its first look at economic growth for the third quarter on Friday. That gain would be only a small improvement from the 1.7 percent growth turned in during the second quarter.
In the other report, the agency said that new-home sales in September grew 6.6 percent from a month earlier to a seasonally adjusted annual sales pace of 307,000. Three of the previous four months were the slowest on records dating back to 1963.
The figures were driven by a 61 percent monthly surge in the Midwest. Sales grew about 3 percent in the South and Northeast. They fell nearly 10 percent in the West.
New-home sales have risen 9 percent from the bottom in May but are still down 78 percent from their peak pace of nearly 1.4 million homes in July 2005. A healthy annual sales pace is around 800,000 new homes.
Government tax credits propelled the housing market earlier in the year, but those expired in April. The median sales price was $223,800. That was up 3.3 percent from a year earlier.
Builders are competing with millions of foreclosures and other distressed properties that show no signs of abating. They are unlikely to ramp up construction until those are cleared away and demand picks up.
The number of unsold new homes on the market fell to 204,000, the lowest since July 1968. At the current sales pace, it would take about eight months to exhaust that supply, compared with a healthy level of about six months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



773 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EXPERIENCE NECESSARY; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: A Well-Dressed Dry Cleaner, Just Like Dad

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
John-Claude Hallak knows the proper way to press trousers, coax a spot from a wedding gown, or restore a carpet to its original glory. He is a second-generation dry cleaner; his parents, Joseph and Marie-Louise, opened Hallak Cleaners on the Upper East Side in 1966. (His mother, widowed in 1992, is the president.) Mr. Hallak, 54, who has a master's degree in economics from Rutgers University, joined the company in 1982; he and his younger brother, Joseph, 49, are both vice presidents. He lives in Basking Ridge, N.J., with his wife, Michelle, and their 16-year-old twin sons.
Destined to clean: I was doomed to be in the family business. I remember being about 8 and asking my father if I could go to work with him on a Saturday and him telling me, ''If you come with me, I'll give you a dollar, but if you stay home and help your mother, I'll give you $5.'' And I took the dollar. My first real job was to make pants hangers by putting those sticky pieces of cardboard on the bottom of wire hangers; it was work you could probably teach a rhesus monkey to do. 
Aspirations: It was always assumed that I'd be the first one in the family to go to college and live the American dream. I wanted to be a lawyer. I worked weekends and summers at the store. I was a politics and history junkie, so it was a big thrill for me to clean Theodore H. White's carpets.
Dressing like Dad: I emulated my father, always wore a shirt and tie. Even in the 100-degree heat pressing pants in the summer in the store's basement, I never took that tie off. You physically removed the damp clothes from the machine; there were these big vents called ''sniffers,'' but you could still smell the chemicals. It never bothered me. I guess it's genetic.
The family business: My father was thinking of selling in 1980. He was such a perfectionist, the Felix Unger of dry cleaning, but he was tired. So my younger brother, Joseph, dropped out of Seton Hall to keep the business going. After I graduated, I worked nine months for an equity firm. Then my father and brother asked me to join them. I said yes, with two conditions: that we move our production facility out of New York City and expand it, and that they let me introduce automation and computerization.
Thinking big: By 1983 we had a facility in Hackensack. Now it's 13,000 square feet and employs 60 people. But 80 percent of our clientele is in New York City. People who spend $10,000 a month on dry cleaning are not the norm, but we have them. I had a client who spent $150,000 a year. He even sent us his underwear. There was a template on how his boxer shorts should be folded.
Tough customers: We do things for our clients that no one in their right mind would do. The best story is the fashion model who sends her dry cleaning to us in a shopping bag, and after we clean everything and send it back, she calls and asks what happened to the 10-inch square of antique Chinese silk that was in a baggie in the bottom of the shopping bag. We couldn't find it, she claimed it was worth $3,500, and long story short, I wrote the woman a check for $3,500. Two months later, she tells us we lost something that cost $1,700. This time I told her I couldn't accommodate her again. I said, ''Contrary to what you might think, I'm not an A.T.M.'' She must like our work; she's still using us. No, it's not Naomi Campbell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



774 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FLORIDA GOVERNOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign of Few Details, But Questions Keep Coming

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
NAPLES, Fla. -- The question for Rick Scott at last week's debate had been asked countless times: Why was he qualified to be Florida's governor when his tenure as a chief executive of Columbia/HCA led to $1.7 billion in fines for defrauding the government? Was he involved, or too out of touch to know what was going on?
''Well, we built a great company, I started with my life savings'' Mr. Scott said -- but then a moderator interrupted. ''We've heard that, though, you've already said that. So explain to me how it went so wrong.'' 
Mr. Scott continued with the same general response he has been using for months, leaving unanswered persistent questions about whether he was a competent and honest executive.
The answers to those inquiries, however, may determine whether Mr. Scott wins or loses. Strategists and polls suggest his contest with Alex Sink, the Democrat, is close. And for both candidates here, in a state with around 12 percent unemployment, where foreclosures are still rolling in, corporate history and integrity have become the defining issues.
Ms. Sink, 62, the state's chief financial officer and a former bank executive, has come under attack from the Scott campaign for fines paid by companies where she worked. Those fines, by comparison, were much smaller (in the most prominent case, $6.7 million), and she has said they were tied to parts of the business she did not oversee.
Mr. Scott has also attacked Ms. Sink for her management of the state's pension fund, which has lost value like those of most states. And this week, his campaign labeled her an ''icheater'' for reading a text message from an aide during the most recent debate.
Ms. Sink, in turn, has stayed focused on that $1.7 billion. Her campaign has run a series of stinging ads featuring Republican law enforcement officials describing Mr. Scott as untrustworthy, not just because of the hefty fines his former company paid, but also because of what the ads describe as a history of evasive responses. One number in particular appears often: 75. That is how often Mr. Scott invoked his Fifth Amendment right in a civil case tied to the Columbia/HCA fraud.
The ads seem to be sticking. When a dozen voters at two Scott events last week were asked what first came to mind at the mention of Mr. Scott's name, all but one said Medicare fraud.
More surprising, they said Mr. Scott's response was as important as the allegation itself. Several undecided voters said they wanted Mr. Scott to be more straightforward.
This is something Mr. Scott -- 57, bald and wiry, with blue eyes that widen when he speaks -- has generally hesitated to do. He says nothing about the fraud allegations in his stump speech. His Web site and a separate campaign site called Truth About Rick Scott emphasize that he was ''never charged with doing anything wrong and he was never even questioned.'' It does not explain what he knew or did not know about the fraud.
''We built a wonderful company,'' he said last week while visiting a medical devices company in Naples. ''I take responsibility for the mistakes I made.''
When asked to clarify, he said only, ''I should have put more focus on internal controls'' -- a variation of what he has said in the two most recent debates.
Critics see a pattern of obfuscation. Mr. Scott has now become well known not just for invoking the Fifth Amendment 75 times, but also for refusing to release a deposition in a more recent case, and for his answers in a third deposition tied to Columbia/HCA. In that deposition, Mr. Scott claimed to be unsure of how to define ''market,'' ''agreement,'' ''control,'' ''profit,'' ''overcapacity'' or even ''Central Florida.''
He has also boycotted newspaper editorial boards.
Even some of Mr. Scott's friends have begun to question the strategy. ''If it was me making the decisions, I'd have him talk more about it,'' said Stephen Braun, the former general counsel for Columbia/HCA, who has known Mr. Scott for nearly three decades.
He and others who have worked with Mr. Scott say that he has become too scripted, too nervous, too beholden to campaign consultants. (''We reject that notion,'' said Brian Burgess, the campaign's communications director, in an e-mail.) They paint the picture of a C.E.O. who was brilliant, narrowly focused and unassuming but hard to warm up to, which may explain why he campaigns with his mother and wife.
Joshua Nemzoff, who was involved in selling several Florida hospitals to Columbia/HCA in the 1980s and '90s, said it bothered him that many Floridians seemed to think Mr. Scott was a criminal. He said his friend inherited many of the billing problems that led to the fraud charges by buying hospitals quickly -- and then buying more, sometimes after only days of research.
He described Mr. Scott as ''very, very aggressive'' negotiator who knew little if anything about government cost reports. ''He's a deal guy,'' Mr. Nemzoff said. ''He focused on deals and didn't see it as his job as to whether Medicare cost reports were filled out.''
Mr. Scott has hinted at this. ''The lesson I've learned is you have to broaden your focus,'' he said in the debate last week.
But he still seems to be learning that lesson with politics. He runs his campaign less like a public official in training than an investor planning a hostile takeover -- from headquarters high up in a Fort Lauderdale office tower with a security guard keeping track of who gets in.
Republican strategists say his style fits the moment; even a pro-business candidate with unanswered questions can win in a race against a Democrat in office. ''He happens to have entered this race at the precisely the right time for someone with his background,'' said Al Cardenas, the former head of Florida's Republican Party.
If Mr. Scott wins, Mr. Cardenas said, it will be because he convinced voters that he will be singularly focused on one issue: jobs. If he loses, though, it may be because Mr. Scott failed to persuade voters to look beyond the job that has defined his career.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Scott, the Republican candidate for Florida governor, with his wife, Ann, left, and his running mate, Jennifer Carroll. Above, Alex Sink, his Democratic opponent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 POOL PHOTO BY SCOTT McINTYRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MEDICARE FRAUD (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); FORECLOSURE (66%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (74%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



775 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: 'In The Heights' To Close In January

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
After a Broadway run of more than two and a half years that included four Tony Awards and a Grammy, the hit musical ''In the Heights'' will close on Jan. 9. ''It's the right time,'' one of the producers, Kevin McCollum, said Wednesday, citing the implacable economics of Broadway. ''If we ran into another year, it wouldn't make sense.'' 
The ''American Idol'' winner Jordin Sparks, who joined the cast in August, will be leaving as planned in mid-November, but Lin-Manuel Miranda, who created the musical and originally starred in it, will be returning to the lead role of Usnavi for the final 19 performances. A movie version is also in the works, scheduled to begin shooting next year.
At its own height the show was earning more than $1 million a week during the summer of 2008, still in the glow of winning the Tony for best musical. But the production has not been in the million-dollar club since New Year's weekend of 2009, and by last winter its grosses were taking sharp dips -- not uncommon for a musical entering its third year of performances. In the week of performances after Labor Day last month -- typically a bad time for Broadway -- the show grossed $407,974, its lowest since it was in previews in March 2008.
Adding Ms. Sparks to the cast was the second time the producers had dipped into the TV well to attract interest; Corbin Bleu, the ''High School Musical'' star, played Usnavi earlier this year. ''When you're putting someone new in a show, you're looking to sustain box office,'' Mr. McCollum said of Ms. Sparks. ''She did very well for the show.''
An autobiographical musical about Latinos in Upper Manhattan, ''In the Heights'' melded an old-fashioned book with salsa rhythms and frequently rapped lyrics, many of them delivered for the first year of the run by the irrepressible Mr. Miranda.
A PBS documentary on the making of the musical captured the exuberance of the young cast and creative team, most of whom followed the show from its hit Off Broadway run to a Broadway engagement that culminated in the best-musical Tony. Karen Olivo went on to win a Tony Award playing Anita in ''West Side Story''; Robin de Jesus was nominated for a supporting role in ''La Cage Aux Folles''; and the director Thomas Kail just returned to Broadway with ''Lombardi.''
Mr. Miranda, who wrote the show's music and lyrics (Quiara Alegria Hudes wrote the book), went on to star in the Los Angeles run. His new musical, an adaptation of the cheerleading movie ''Bring It On'' co-written with Jeff Whitty, Tom Kitt and Amanda Green is scheduled to open in Atlanta in January.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); US LABOR DAY (76%); MOVIE CASTING (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); WRITERS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



776 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring The Planet Won't Fix It

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's hardly surprising that a study released the other day by a scientist with the National Center for Atmospheric Research didn't register on any political radar screens, amid Kentucky foot stomps, dead wrestlers, $2 billion in campaign spending and the pitched battles for control of Congress.
And, political year or not, there's only so much news value in any projection of what might happen in climate science. Still, you don't need a Ph.D. to ponder the potential ramifications of the study, by Aiguo Dai, who works with the center's Climate and Global Dynamics Division. 
It concluded that, over the next 30 years, warming temperatures associated with climate change were likely to create increasingly dry conditions in the United States and droughts around the globe on levels seldom seen before. Previous studies by Dr. Dai have indicated that climate change may already be producing drier conditions. A 2004 study found that the percentage of the world's land area facing serious drought more than doubled from the 1970s to the early 2000s.
The recent study concluded that most of the western two-thirds of the United States will be significantly drier by the 2030s, and that large parts of the nation may face an increasing risk of extreme drought. This is not about melting ice caps; it's about Dust Bowl-style drought within two decades.
''If the projections in this study come even close to being realized, the consequences for society worldwide will be enormous,'' Dr. Dai said.
As my fellow columnist Clyde Haberman noted the other day, two words were absent in the New York Senate debate on Sunday: Iraq and Afghanistan. Actually, despite all the noise in politics this year, there are many others. Heard much about the urban poor? And here are two others that have fallen off the table: climate change.
When Barack Obama won the nomination, he said his election to the presidency would be historic on two issues: health care and climate change, a point when ''the rise of the oceans began to slow and our planet began to heal.''
Two years later, you can barely find the phrase ''climate change'' on the Web sites of Democrats running for office, and for Republicans it has become an item of faith to be a skeptic on the science and a critic of cap-and-trade legislation meant to limit carbon emissions.
Despite debate, informed and less so, the scientific consensus has not changed. In May, the National Academies of Science reported to Congress that ''the U.S. should act now to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and develop a national strategy to adapt to the inevitable impacts of climate change,'' because global warming is ''caused largely by human activities, and poses significant risks for -- and in many cases is already affecting -- a broad range of human and natural systems.''
But the politics have changed, recast as a Republican wedge issue based around opposition to cap-and-trade.
It's not hard to understand why. It's the economy, stupid, as never before. It's a Republican year, and this isn't a Republican issue. Climate change has never been a front-burner issue, and it's the ultimate nightmare to communicate: you don't see carbon in the air the way you see smokestack emissions. It's global, not local. The effects evolve over the long, long run. We can tune in 50 years from now and find out who was right, at which point it will be too late.
Anything portrayed as a tax is a loser this year, hence the fate of cap-and-trade, originally envisioned in the Reagan years as a business-friendly, market-based environmental approach.
And you can make the case that in some ways climate awareness has gone mainstream. No one talks about climate change, but even Republicans voice support for clean energy and green jobs. So maybe there's progress toward what's being called a postpartisan climate approach that focuses on stimulating nonpolluting energy technology through incentives, innovation, direct investment and procurement policies.
''Given the economy, it's no surprise that people aren't rolling out of bed focused on rising seas and polar bears,'' said Cathy Duvall, national political director of the Sierra Club. ''But they are thinking about what it takes to create jobs for the future and how to make America a leader in the global economy and clean energy.''
Or maybe that's how we flatter ourselves as we focus on immediate disasters. There is plenty of concern about the economic future we're leaving for our children. As for urgency about the planet we're leaving them, that can slide until a more convenient time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); EMISSIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



777 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 957 words

PERSON: Richard T. Gill 

HEADLINE: Richard T. Gill, Economist and Opera Singer, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Richard T. Gill, in all statistical probability the only Harvard economist to sing 86 performances with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Monday in Providence, R.I. He was 82.
The cause was heart failure, his son Peter said. A former resident of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Mr. Gill also had a home in Chocorua, N.H.
Mr. Gill, a longtime Harvard faculty member who wrote many widely used economics textbooks, did not undertake serious vocal training (which he began as an anti-smoking regimen) until he was nearly 40. At the time, he had seen perhaps 10 operas and rarely listened to classical music. 
But after just a few years of study a world-class voice emerged, and Mr. Gill soon forsook chalk and tweed for flowing robes and very large headgear.
A basso profundo, Mr. Gill began performing featured roles with the New York City Opera in the early 1970s. Soon afterward he joined the Met, where between 1973 and 1976 he sang alongside luminaries like Placido Domingo, Beverly Sills, Kiri Te Kanawa and Shirley Verrett.
At the Met, Mr. Gill's roles included Panthus in ''Les Troyens,'' by Berlioz; Frere Laurent in Gounod's ''Romeo et Juliette''; the Commendatore in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni''; and the King in Verdi's ''Aida.''
This was new and dazzling terrain for the author of ''Economics and the Private Interest: An Introduction to Microeconomics.''
Reviewing a 1975 Met ''Boris Godunov'' in which Mr. Gill sang the role of Pimen, John Rockwell wrote in The New York Times, ''Mr. Gill can be a bit stiff and awkward, dramatically.'' But, he added, ''he has one of the most beautiful, focused lyric basses around, mellow yet with a really black quality, and his shaping of this noble music was most persuasive.''
Reviewing Mr. Gill's ''Economic Development: Past and Present'' (Prentice-Hall, 1963), Industrial and Labor Relations Review found the author ''lucid, objective, and eminently readable.''
During his 14-year operatic career, Mr. Gill was a guest artist with the companies of Chicago, Houston, Boston, Edinburgh and Amsterdam, among others. At the same time he produced a string of additional books, including ''Economics: A Text With Included Readings'' (Goodyear, 1973) and ''Great Debates in Economics'' (Goodyear, 1976), a two-volume work he edited.
Before beginning his operatic career, Mr. Gill had published short fiction in The New Yorker and The Atlantic Monthly. In later years he was the host of ''Economics USA,'' a 28-part public television series first broadcast in 1984 and 1985.
Richard Thomas Gill was born in Long Branch, N.J., on Nov. 30, 1927; his mother, Myrtle, taught piano and voice.
Though he did not study voice formally, Richard was a boy soprano in his church choir and played the clarinet. At 16 he entered Harvard, where he sang in the glee club, interrupting his studies for Army service with the postwar occupation forces in Japan.
Returning to Harvard, Mr. Gill received his bachelor's degree in economics in 1948. After graduate study in philosophy and psychology at Oxford, he was named an assistant dean at Harvard at the age of 21. He earned a Ph.D. in economics from the university in 1956.
Mr. Gill was later an assistant professor of economics at Harvard and the master of Leverett House, a residence house there, for many years.
By his late 30s, shouldering academic and family responsibilities, Mr. Gill was a two-and-a-half-pack-a-day smoker. He made himself quit and, as an incentive to stay on the wagon, began private voice lessons with Herbert Mayer, a respected New York teacher. Mr. Gill enjoyed singing but knew nothing about opera.
For his first lesson, he sang ''Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.''
''My voice gave out halfway through and the teacher yelled, 'Stop, I can't stand it!' '' Mr. Gill told Newsweek in 1975.
Mr. Gill persevered, and during the years of rigorous vocal exercise that followed, his neck size grew from 14 to 17 1/2.
As good as he became, he was too scared to sing on campus. ''At Harvard, if you even stub your toe in public, it's embarrassing,'' Mr. Gill told Harvard magazine in 2002.
Finally, after performing small roles in the Boston area, he agreed to sing Count Almaviva in a ''Marriage of Figaro'' staged at Harvard. The production was directed by John Lithgow (Harvard '67), who went on to no small reputation as an actor, and conducted by John Adams (Harvard '71), who would compose ''Nixon in China,'' among other operas.
Later, during a sabbatical year in England, Mr. Gill was emboldened by well-received auditions at Covent Garden and other European houses. Returning to the United States, he auditioned for the New York City Opera. The company offered him two performances in the 1971 season, at $75 a night.
Mr. Gill quit his tenured job at Harvard. He became a fixture at City Opera, singing in a wide array of productions over the next few years.
Besides his son Peter, Mr. Gill is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Bjornson, whom he married in 1950; a sister, Myrtle Nelson; two other sons, Thomas and Geoffrey; and eight grandchildren.
After retiring from opera in the mid-1980s, Mr. Gill turned his scholarly attention to demographics and the breakdown of the family, writing ''Our Changing Population'' (Prentice-Hall, 1992; with Nathan Glazer and Stephan A. Thernstrom) and ''Posterity Lost: Progress, Ideology, and the Decline of the American Family'' (Rowman & Littlefield, 1997).
In some respects, he later said, Mr. Gill found the roiling world of opera more appealingly straightforward than the roiling world of academe.
''Performing is a great reality test,'' he told Newsweek in 1975. ''There's no tenure in it and the feedback is much less complicated than you get in academia. When you go out on that stage, you put your life on the line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard T. Gill sang numerous roles, including that of Frere Laurent, right, in ''Romeo et Juliette'' at the Met in 1974. (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN OPERA ARCHIVES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); OPERA (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (89%); WRITERS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (88%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Music, Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



778 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Comcast Loses More Subscribers Than Expected, but Its Earnings Top Estimates

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Is it the economy, competition or the Internet that has consumers cutting their cable television service?
That was the underlying question about Comcast's third-quarter earnings, in which an overall strong performance was clouded by the loss of 275,000 basic cable television subscribers.
The subscriber losses were greater than most analysts expected, but Comcast, which is on the verge of acquiring NBC Universal, was able to exceed Wall Street's earnings and revenue forecasts because it added high-speed Internet and voice customers, and charged its television customers more. 
The average cable television bill at Comcast is now $129.75 a month, up from $107.20 in 2008.
Over all, the company reported net income of $867 million, down from $944 million a year ago. Some of the decline was because of higher expenses related to the acquisition of NBC Universal, which executives in a conference call said was expected to win regulatory approval by the end of the year.
Excluding those expenses, the company reported earnings of 32 cents a share, better than the 30 cents forecast by analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. Revenue in the quarter grew 7.3 percent, to $9.5 billion.
Comcast executives said the subscriber losses did not reflect customers canceling cable to watch programming on the Internet -- the so-called cord-cutting phenomenon.
Instead, they blamed the weak economy for the losses and said that many who cut service did not flee to a competitor -- like Verizon or DirecTV -- but instead opted for free, over-the-air television.
That is a much more palatable explanation for the company, and the media industry at large, because it implies that once the economy improves, subscribers will return.
''The customers they are losing tend to be in the bottom half of the economy -- a lot of them appear to be struggling to make ends meet,'' said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, who has written recently about how the increase in the number of Americans under the poverty line has affected the media industry.
Mr. Moffett said the cable industry had failed to provide lower-cost packages, with the lower tier of service starting at around $60 a month. He said this was because the owners of cable channels insisted on full distribution, rather than allowing customers to pick and choose channels, and to seek ever-increasing prices.
Mr. Moffett said the image of the cord-cutter had been that of a ''cutting-edge technologist'' who preferred to bypass cable to watch programming on computers and on an ever-proliferating array of devices. ''The reality is it's someone who's 40 years old and poor and settling for a dog's breakfast of Netflix and short-form video.''
He added that ''the image that people are cutting the cord because they like what's on the Internet better is giving way to a much more realistic view that what they find on the Internet is marginally good enough when you're making a choice between a full-service cable package and a third meal on the table.''
Comcast's loss of 275,000 basic cable subscribers was more than double the loss from the previous year's third quarter and higher than some analysts expected. David C. Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak, for example, had forecast a decline of 221,000 subscribers. In the quarter, the company also added 249,000 high-speed Internet customers and 228,000 voice subscribers.
Comcast shares rose 63 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $20.27.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (95%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (64%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); NETFLIX INC (50%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (95%); CCV (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (64%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (50%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



779 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths DORMER, ROBERT THOMAS

 BODY:
DORMER--Robert Thomas, 91, of Palm Harbor, Florida died on October 25, 2010 after a short illness. Before moving to Florida in 1994, he was a resident of Bayside, NY for more than 40 years. 
He was raised in Manhattan where he was born November 20, 1918, the son of Nicholas and Agnes Dormer. He was President of the New State Job Development Authority from 1979 until his retirement in 1991. Prior to that he served as Executive Vice President of the New York State Urban Corporation. In 1991 the New York State Economic Development Council renamed its Economic Developer of the Year Award as the Robert T. Dormer Economic Developer of the Year Award. In 1994 he was named an Honorary Life Member of the American Economic Development Council "in recognition of long and distinguished service in furthering the profession of economic development and the aims of the Council." Survivors include four children, sons Robert (Bonnie), Ronald (Nancy Nason), Daniel (Janet), a daughter, Diane, and six grandchildren. He was predeceased by his spouses, Mary Catherine McLaughlin Dormer and Gunnel Jerrebo Dormer and his brother, Nicholas. He was a graduate of New York University. During World War II he served in the US Navy with the 114th Construction Battalion (Seabees) in France from July to December 1944 and later in the South Pacific and finally in Japan in September 1945. Burial will be at the Long Island National Cemetery, Farmingdale, Long Island, on November 2, 2010 at 11:00am. In lieu of flowers, please consider a donation to Disabled American Veterans, P.O. Box 145477, Cincinnati, OH 45250-5447

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); NAVIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENGINEERING (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



780 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Gulfstream Orders Suggest Recovery in Business Jets

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
General Dynamics said Wednesday that its Gulfstream unit received orders for more business jets in the third quarter than in any comparable period since mid-2008, another indication of recovery in the market for corporate planes.
Jay L. Johnson, the General Dynamics chief executive, told analysts that one-third of the orders came from Latin America and Asia, and the increase reflected demand for two high-speed models being tested.
General Dynamics, based in Falls Church, Va., does not release quarterly order numbers. 
But in another measure of how its business is starting to bounce back, the company said it delivered 23 Gulfstream planes in the third quarter, up from 17 in the year-earlier period. Its deliveries had peaked at 41 just as the economy collapsed in the last three months of 2008.
Buoyed by the improvement in its aerospace business, General Dynamics, which is also a large military contractor, said its overall profit rose by 13.6 percent in the third quarter.
It also raised its forecast for full-year earnings. Northrop Grumman, another military contractor, also reported a gain in third-quarter profit on Wednesday and increased its forecast.
Analysts watch the sales of business jets as an indicator of how willing corporations are to spend money as the economy rises and falls.
Heidi Wood, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a research note on Wednesday that business jet flights had increased since late last year, and that a recovery ''appears under way.''
She said earlier this week that there was consistent demand for large planes, while the market for midsize and smaller ones remained ''painfully quiet.''
She added that the consensus at a trade show last week was that 2012 would be the start of a new sales cycle for new planes, after a glut of used jets was purchased next year.
General Dynamics said its deliveries in the third quarter included 17 large planes and six midsize ones. Mr. Johnson said Gulfstream now expected to deliver 75 large jets and nearly 30 midsize aircraft this year, compared with 156 planes in 2008.
Textron, the owner of the Cessna Aircraft Company, said last week that its orders had picked up somewhat in September, though Cessna shipped only 26 business jets in the third quarter, compared with 68 a year earlier. Cessna cut 700 jobs in September and slowed production.
But Scott C. Donnelly, Textron's chief executive, told analysts last week that Cessna expected a significant increase in deliveries in the fourth quarter.
Cessna also unveiled plans last week for a larger and more advanced version of its Citation X plane, which can seat nine passengers. It expects the first delivery in 2013.
Mr. Johnson, the General Dynamics chief executive, said his company's new and faster large jet, the G650, which seats eight people, should be ready for delivery in 2012. He said it had already attracted 200 orders.
Mr. Johnson said orders were also coming in for Gulfstream's new G250 jet, which has a midsize cabin, and should be ready by late next year. ''Our timing relative to the recovery in the midcabin market looks pretty good,'' he said.
And as tighter military budgets slow the company's growth in combat systems and warships, ''our aerospace business will be the growth engine through the near and intermediate time frames,'' Mr. Johnson said.
General Dynamics said its net income increased to $650 million, or $1.70 a share, in the third quarter, from $572 million, or $1.47 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 3.8 percent, to $8.01 billion.
The company also increased its earnings forecast for the full year to $6.70 to $6.75 a share, from $6.60 to $6.65 a share.
Northrop Grumman, based in Los Angeles, said its net income edged up to $497 million, or $1.67 a share, in the third quarter, from $490 million, or $1.53 a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 4 percent, to $8.71 billion.
Northrop raised its full-year earnings guidance to $6.85 to $7 a share, from $6.60 to $6.80 a share.
Northrop is exploring the sale of its $6 billion shipbuilding unit. It also might spin off the business to shareholders. Wesley G. Bush, Northrop's chief executive, said the company was focused on improving its profit margins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); AIRCRAFT DEALERS (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (90%); CESSNA AIRCRAFT CO (63%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (90%); NOC (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (63%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



781 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Opportunity In Health Care

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN another demonstration of the increasing importance of health and wellness advertising to Madison Avenue, a leading agency is forming a unit that will specialize in marketing to health care professionals like doctors and managed care organizations.
The unit, named DDB Remedy, is being started by the New York offices of DDB Worldwide and Tribal DDB Worldwide. Tribal DDB is the digital division of DDB, which is part of the Omnicom Group.
The expansion represents the arrival of Remedy in the United States; DDB uses the name for a health care agency in Sydney, Australia. There is also a DDB Health Worldwide division of DDB, so the start-up of DDB Remedy makes DDB, if not a healthy agency, then certainly a health-focused agency. 
The formation of the DDB Remedy New York office is also indicative of how agencies, and the holding companies that own them, are thinking again about ways to grow after being battered by the recession. That change comes as worldwide ad spending is recovering more quickly than many analysts -- and senior agency managers -- had expected.
For instance, Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP, the world's largest agency company by revenue, said this week that its organic growth rate in the third quarter was the strongest in a decade.
At DDB, ''we saw a tremendous opportunity in the market on the professional side,'' said Ellen Fields, global business director of DDB New York, who will also serve as managing director of DDB Remedy New York, because ''a far greater majority of products is marketed to professionals than consumers.''
''We want to invest in the expertise on the professional side and marry it with DDB's creativity,'' she added, ''and apply the understanding of human nature, human insight, to the professional side.''
The participation of Tribal DDB speaks to the fact that ''digital as a discipline, as a channel, has not been utilized to the extent that clients and health care professionals are utilizing it,'' Ms. Fields, who is 50, said.
DDB is hiring two top executives with professional health care marketing experience to join Ms. Fields at DDB Remedy. They are Larry Lannino, who will be managing partner for accounts, and John Kelly, who will be managing partner for creative.
Mr. Lannino, 50, had most recently been managing partner at Sudler & Hennessey, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP. Mr. Kelly, 53, had been senior vice president and associate creative director at Euro RSCG Life, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas.
Mr. Kelly recalled how his father, a printer who ''dealt with the advertising companies, always told me about DDB,'' which in those days went by the name Doyle Dane Bernbach. So ''when I heard there was an opportunity here,'' he said, ''I jumped at it.''
DDB Remedy will have about a dozen employees, Mr. Lannino said, and is already working for ''two major clients, one a pharmaceutical company and the other a biopharmaceutical company working in the oncology field.'' He and the other executives said they could not disclose the names of those clients.
In addition to the formation of DDB Remedy in New York, a public relations agency owned by Omnicom, Porter Novelli, said this week that it had reorganized its global health care practice to extend beyond traditional public relations into areas like social marketing.
And GCI Health, part of the Cohn & Wolfe unit of WPP, has formed a practice, called Synchronicity, that will concentrate on health care education.
It is ''a fair point,'' Mr. Lannino said, to ask if another health care agency is necessary, but DDB Remedy will ''communicate with the professional audience'' in ways that go beyond ''a focus on the rational side of the brain to also look at the emotional side.''
''Doctors are making an emotional decision about what to prescribe'' along with a rational one, he added. ''We need a better understanding of why they're making those judgments.''
Ms. Fields said: ''In the physician's office, patients and doctors talk almost on parallel paths. We think there's an opportunity to create a dialogue.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Advertising column on Thursday about DDB Remedy, a new unit of DDB Worldwide and Tribal DDB Worldwide that will focus on health care marketing, misstated part of the name of an agency where one of DDB Remedy's new executives was formerly employed. The executive, Larry Lannino, was managing partner at Sudler & Hennessey, not Sudley & Hennessey.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The principals of DDB Remedy are, from left, Ellen Fields, managing director
Larry Lannino, managing partner
 and John Kelly, managing partner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CADENA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (92%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (80%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%); HAVAS SA (58%); SUDLER & HENNESSEY (51%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (92%); HAV (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (57%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



782 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: New Zealand Bends And 'Hobbit' Stays

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and JEREMY ROSE; Colin Peacock contributed reporting from Wellington, New Zealand.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- New Zealand will remain the middle of Middle-earth, at a price.
After meeting in Wellington with visiting Hollywood studio executives, New Zealand officials, led by the prime minister, agreed to an extraordinary deal on Wednesday under which they will contribute special financing and introduce new labor legislation to keep the filming of Warner Brothers' two movies based on J. R. R. Tolkien's ''The Hobbit'' on their shores.
It may seem that New Zealand has grown sentimental over its Hobbits -- or rather the filmmaker Peter Jackson's Hobbits. It has built a tourism industry and no small amount of national pride around the creatures, dating to when Mr. Jackson's ''Lord of the Rings'' franchise established a growing movie industry sometimes called Wellywood there.
But behind the agreement is a hard economic reality. Hollywood has the upper hand in deciding where to film its big-budget extravaganzas, and there are many places willing to pay to attract filmmakers. And so the negotiations found executives of a giant American studio sitting across the table from the chief executive of a sovereign nation, population 4.4 million, wrangling over the fate of a pair of films and, with it, a not insignificant part of that nation's economy and public image. 
Prime Minister John Key announced the agreement at a news conference late Wednesday in Wellington, after a week in which thousands of film workers had taken to the streets in support of efforts to save the movies after a labor dispute had stalled production.
''This will guarantee the movies are made in New Zealand,'' Mr. Key said.
Reaction was predictably ecstatic at TheOneRing.net, a fan Web site that has closely followed the Middle-earth movies over the years. ''Well, John Key has probably just won next year's election,'' said one post.
''We're all feeling much happier today,'' said Graeme Mason, the chief executive of the New Zealand film commission. Mr. Mason said government incentives and the expertise of local workers would probably have held the country's film industry together even if the Hobbit films had left.
''But where it was apocalyptic, potentially,'' Mr. Mason said, ''is that New Zealanders are so invested'' in the work done by Mr. Jackson and his colleagues on those films.
In a statement, Mr. Jackson said he was grateful to the government for introducing legislation and added, ''I feel enormous gratitude to the film technicians, actors and fans who came out in support of making these films in New Zealand. To the thousands of people who took the time to write and let us know they were with us -- thank you.''
Some in New Zealand and elsewhere questioned whether the politicians had gone too far in kowtowing to Hollywood. Trevor Mallard, a spokesman for the opposition Labour Party, told Parliament that Mr. Key, who leads the National Party, had been taken in by Warner, ''and as a result of that, they will be laughing all the way to the Bank of America.''
Keith Locke, a spokesman for the smaller Green Party, said overseas investors should have no say in changing New Zealand laws.
''Yes, New Zealanders are proud of 'Lord of the Rings,' the achievements of Peter Jackson and the prospect that 'The Hobbit' will be filmed here, but pride should also stop us selling our soul,'' Mr. Locke said.
The legislation is expected to require workers to designate their status as an employee or a freelance worker when beginning a project, then stick with it, according to one person who was briefed on the talks but spoke anonymously because the agreement was not complete. Thus, anyone who contracted individually with producers of ''The Hobbit'' as a freelance worker at the beginning of the film could not change status later and claim the rights of a permanent employee.
The future of the back-to-back productions, with a combined budget of about $500 million, came into question when a small actors' union, New Zealand Actors Equity, demanded that producers bargain collectively with actors on the films. Mr. Jackson, who is a producer and the director, had joined Warner executives and New Zealand officials in insisting that such bargaining was prohibited by New Zealand law.
Perhaps just as important, Wednesday's agreement also calls for New Zealand to increase its contribution to each film by $7.5 million, in addition to a standing government incentive that reimburses up to 15 percent of the spending in New Zealand by a high-budget production like ''The Hobbit.'' In a further twist, Mr. Key told reporters, in a commitment to Time Warner and its global media group, New Zealand would contribute $10 million to a marketing campaign that would tie the films to tourism in the country.
So when Wellywood meets Hollywood, does Wellywood come out on the losing end?
Warner won the agreement after an unusual bit of cinematic gunboat diplomacy. On Sunday evening, a contingent of high-level studio executives flew to New Zealand with a mandate to move the films if the cloud of labor trouble did not lift.
Already, the production, which was to begin in January, had been delayed for at least a month by the dispute -- a factor that apparently contributed to the bargaining for extra incentives.
''The lesson is that everybody is pandering to the film industry,'' said Schuyler M. Moore, a Los Angeles entertainment lawyer. Mr. Moore cautions that state subsidies for film production often amount to picking money from one pocket of an economy to fill another -- and that producers are quick to side with a higher bidder.
''It takes a minute for an executive to say, 'Let's wrap and go somewhere else,' '' Mr. Moore said. He pointed out that a weak dollar, and aggressive subsidy programs in states like Michigan and Louisiana, had made production in countries like New Zealand less attractive.
Even as New Zealand was scrambling to keep the ''Hobbit'' films, Warner was exploring ways the movies could be made elsewhere, again with government support.
Mr. Jackson was not present in the meetings with New Zealand officials, though his manager, Ken Kamins, who is also an executive producer of the film, was, along with Toby Emmerich, New Line's president, and John A. Rogovin, Warner's general counsel. The discussions were generally smooth, according to the person who spoke anonymously. That person said both Warner executives and government officials agreed from the outset that New Zealand was the preferred location, if the union question could be resolved, and if Warner could recoup some of the money it had lost in the delay, partly from a strengthening of the New Zealand currency. Canada, Germany and Britain had all surfaced as viable alternative locations.
The films are scheduled for release in December 2012 and December 2013, and provide a pair of much-needed, large-scale films for Warner and MGM.
New Zealand's film industry received an enormous boost from the production of Mr. Jackson's ''Lord of the Rings'' and ''King Kong'' films, and has continued to be a center for special-effects work on other movies, including James Cameron's ''Avatar.'' The industry had revenue of 2.8 billion New Zealand dollars in 2009, or $2.1 billion -- roughly 2 percent of the gross domestic product, according to Statistics New Zealand, an agency that monitors the country's economy.
In announcing the proposed settlement on Wednesday, the prime minister expressed relief that the cinematic crisis appeared to have passed.
''It's good to have the uncertainty over and to have everyone now full steam ahead on this project,'' Mr. Key said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands of film workers took to the streets this week hoping to save the ''Hobbit'' movies after a labor dispute stalled production. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTY MELVILLE/GETTY IMAGES)
 Prime Minister John Key of New Zealand met with executives of Warner Brothers to determine the future of the films. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAGEN HOPKINS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); TOURISM (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NEW ZEALAND (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



783 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: In Writings Of Obama, A Philosophy Is Unearthed

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
When the Harvard historian James T. Kloppenberg decided to write about the influences that shaped President Obama's view of the world, he interviewed the president's former professors and classmates, combed through his books, essays, and speeches, and even read every article published during the three years Mr. Obama was involved with the Harvard Law Review (''a superb cure for insomnia,'' Mr. Kloppenberg said). What he did not do was speak to President Obama.
''He would have had to deny every word,'' Mr. Kloppenberg said with a smile. The reason, he explained, is his conclusion that President Obama is a true intellectual -- a word that is frequently considered an epithet among populists with a robust suspicion of Ivy League elites.
In New York City last week to give a standing-room-only lecture about his forthcoming intellectual biography, ''Reading Obama: Dreams, Hopes, and the American Political Tradition,'' Mr. Kloppenberg explained that he sees Mr. Obama as a kind of philosopher president, a rare breed that can be found only a handful of times in American history. 
''There's John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison and John Quincy Adams, then Abraham Lincoln and in the 20th century just Woodrow Wilson,'' he said.
To Mr. Kloppenberg the philosophy that has guided President Obama most consistently is pragmatism, a uniquely American system of thought developed at the end of the 19th century by William James, John Dewey and Charles Sanders Peirce. It is a philosophy that grew up after Darwin published his theory of evolution and the Civil War reached its bloody end. More and more people were coming to believe that chance rather than providence guided human affairs, and that dogged certainty led to violence.
Pragmatism maintains that people are constantly devising and updating ideas to navigate the world in which they live; it embraces open-minded experimentation and continuing debate. ''It is a philosophy for skeptics, not true believers,'' Mr. Kloppenberg said.
Those who heard Mr. Kloppenberg present his argument at a conference on intellectual history at the City University of New York's Graduate Center responded with prolonged applause. ''The way he traced Obama's intellectual influences was fascinating for us, given that Obama's academic background seems so similar to ours,'' said Andrew Hartman, a historian at Illinois State University who helped organize the conference.
Mr. Kloppenberg's interest in the education of Barack Obama began from a distance. He spent 2008, the election year, at the University of Cambridge in England and found himself in lecture halls and at dinner tables trying to explain who this man was.
Race, temperament and family history are all crucial to understanding the White House's current occupant, but Mr. Kloppenberg said he chose to focus on one slice of the president's makeup: his ideas.
In the professor's analysis the president's worldview is the product of the country's long history of extending democracy to disenfranchised groups, as well as the specific ideological upheavals that struck campuses in the 1980s and 1990s. He mentions, for example, that Mr. Obama was at Harvard during ''the greatest intellectual ferment in law schools in the 20th century,'' when competing theories about race, feminism, realism and constitutional original intent were all battling for ground.
Mr. Obama was ultimately drawn to a cluster of ideas known as civic republicanism or deliberative democracy, Mr. Kloppenberg argues in the book, which Princeton University Press will publish on Sunday. In this view the founding fathers cared as much about continuing a discussion over how to advance the common good as they did about ensuring freedom.
Taking his cue from Madison, Mr. Obama writes in his 2006 book ''The Audacity of Hope'' that the constitutional framework is ''designed to force us into a conversation,'' that it offers ''a way by which we argue about our future.'' This notion of a living document is directly at odds with the conception of Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court, who has spoken of ''the good, old dead Constitution.''
Mr. Kloppenberg compiled a long list of people who he said helped shape Mr. Obama's thinking and writing, including Weber and Nietzsche, Thoreau and Emerson, Langston Hughes and Ralph Ellison. Contemporary scholars like the historian Gordon Wood, the philosophers John Rawls and Hilary Putnam, the anthropologist Clifford Geertz and the legal theorists Martha Minow and Cass Sunstein (who is now working at the White House) also have a place.
Despite the detailed examination, Mr. Kloppenberg concedes that President Obama remains something of a mystery.
''To critics on the left he seems a tragic failure, a man with so much potential who has not fulfilled the promise of change that partisans predicted for his presidency,'' he said. ''To the right he is a frightening success, a man who has transformed the federal government and ruined the economy.''
He finds both assessments flawed. Conservatives who argue that Mr. Obama is a socialist or an anti-colonialist (as Dinesh D'Souza does in his book ''The Roots of Obama's Rage'') are far off the mark, he said.
''Adams and Jefferson were the only anti-colonialists whom Obama has been affected by,'' he told the audience in New York. ''He has a profound love of America.''
And his opposition to inequality stems from Puritan preachers and the social gospel rather than socialism.
As for liberal critics, Mr. Kloppenberg took pains to differentiate the president's philosophical pragmatism, which assumes that change emerges over decades, from the kind of ''vulgar pragmatism'' practiced by politicians looking only for expedient compromise. (He gave former President Bill Clinton's strategy of ''triangulation'' as an example.)
Not all of the disappointed liberals who attended the lecture in New York were convinced that that distinction can be made so easily. T. J. Jackson Lears, a historian at Rutgers University, wrote in an e-mail that by ''showing that Obama comes out of a tradition of philosophical pragmatism, he actually provided a basis for criticizing Obama's slide into vulgar pragmatism.''
And despite Mr. Kloppenberg's focus on the president's intellectual evolution, most listeners wanted to talk about his political record.
''There seemed to be skepticism regarding whether Obama's intellectual background actually translated into policies that the mostly left-leaning audience could get behind,'' Mr. Hartman said. ''Several audience members, myself included, probably view Obama the president as a centrist like Clinton rather than a progressive intellectual as painted by Kloppenberg.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In his new book, James T. Kloppenberg contends that President Obama is an intellectual guided by a philosophy of pragmatism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); EVOLUTION THEORY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%)

TITLE: Reading Obama (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



784 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS GOVERNOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Front-Runner's National Twist

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
BEAUMONT, Tex. -- Gov. Rick Perry waded into a crowded room at Rao's Bakery recently, full of conservatives and Tea Party members, and delivered his pitch with a sunny twang: Texas has one of the strongest economies in the country right now, and his small-government, low-tax policies are the reason.
Then he told the crowd that the federal government was ''assaulting every liberty we have got right now'' and that he was ''proud to get to know and get to participate with the Tea Party people across the state.'' He denounced President Obama's health care overhaul as too expensive and warned that federal spending to stimulate the economy would bankrupt the country. 
''You can't spend your way to prosperity -- it's impossible,'' Mr. Perry said, echoing an article of faith among Tea Party supporters. ''We are going to send them a powerful message on the 2nd of November.''
Mr. Perry's message, though, did not include a single mention of his opponent, Bill White, a Democrat and former mayor of Houston.
With a week to go, polls suggest that Mr. White has been unable to close in on the governor. As a result, Mr. Perry appears poised to serve a fourth term -- unprecedented for a Texas governor -- barring some game-changing development in the next few days, several pollsters and political strategists said.
This week, the campaign's tone grew more acrimonious as the candidates traded barbs over immigration. Mr. Perry released an attack ad suggesting that Mr. White was partly to blame for the 2006 killing of a Houston police officer by an illegal immigrant.
Mr. White said the governor was ''exploiting shamelessly the grief of a widow,'' and claimed that Mr. Perry had removed convicted sex offenders from the state's public database once they were deported.
For the most part, however, Mr. Perry has followed the classic strategy of front-runners, with a few new twists. He has avoided debates with Mr. White and limited his attacks. He has also skillfully harnessed the anti-incumbent sentiment this year, allying himself early on with the Tea Party and riding the wave of anger at deficit spending in Washington.
And he has been able to run on the state's economy, taking credit for its relatively good record of creating jobs.
He has snubbed most of the newspaper editorial boards in the state, which have endorsed Mr. White. And he has relied more on Internet videos and social media sites than on yard signs.
Mr. White has tried to attack Mr. Perry, portraying him as a machine politician who has enriched his friends, his former staff members and his campaign contributors with state largesse.
In advertisements and in speeches, Mr. White has said Mr. Perry has become a wealthy man through real estate deals, and has criticized him for staying in a $10,000-a-month mansion while repairs were being done on the governor's residence. Mr. White promised that he would move into a double-wide trailer if elected. ''Where I come from, fiscal conservatism means you don't waste money on yourself,'' Mr. White has said.
Mr. White has gotten a lift from the Democratic Governors Association, which has pumped more than $2 million into the race and has underwritten two negative ads. A Houston trial lawyer, Steven Mostyn, has also spent millions of dollars attacking the governor on the air.
Mr. White is the most viable Democratic candidate for Texas governor in the past two decades, pollsters say. Yet he has never pulled ahead in any poll, and two recent polls, which came out just before recent pay-to-play accusations against Mr. Perry, showed him still behind by at least 7 percentage points and perhaps as much as 14.
The governor has also raised more than $8 million since late September, while Mr. White pulled in about $3.6 million.
Part of Mr. Perry's success has been his ability to define the race as a referendum on Mr. Obama and the national Democratic Party. Mr. Perry turned out to be prescient when he became one of the few mainstream politicians to attend Tea Party rallies in April 2009, though he was ridiculed by comedians on national television at the time. At one rally, he famously expressed sympathy for some participants who wanted to secede from the union.
He draws big applause from his supporters when he says the federal government's only legitimate role is to deliver mail, secure the borders and stand an army.
''Mr. President, until you get those three things right, don't come down here to Texas and tell us what to do,'' he said at Rao's Bakery as his supporter erupted in cheers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Perry spoke on Monday before voting early in the midterm elections at a grocery store polling location in Austin, Tex. Above, Bill White, the Democratic challenger. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SKLAR/GETTY IMAGES
 ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); BAKERIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); DEPORTATION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



785 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Article About Reforms Seems Critical Of the Premier

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES and SHARON LaFRANIERE; Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting, and Benjamin Haas and Ashley Li contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's main Communist Party newspaper bluntly rejected calls for speedier political reform on Wednesday, publishing a front-page commentary that said any changes in China's political system should not emulate Western democracies, but ''consolidate the party's leadership so that the party commands the overall situation.''
The opinion article in People's Daily, signed with what appeared to be a pseudonym, appeared at least obliquely aimed at Prime Minister Wen Jiabao. He has argued in speeches and media interviews that China's economic progress threatens to stall without systemic reforms, including an independent judiciary, greater oversight of government by the press and improvements in China's sharply limited form of elections. 
It also may have been directed at countering recent demands for democratic reforms by Chinese liberal intellectuals and Communist Party elders, spurred in part by Mr. Wen's remarks and timed to this month's award of the Nobel Peace Prize to an imprisoned Chinese democracy advocate, Liu Xiaobo.
Mr. Wen's comments have fueled a debate among analysts over whether he is advocating Western-style changes in China's governing system or merely calling for more openness inside the ruling Communist Party.
Wednesday's commentary, which closely followed the ruling party's annual planning session, ran to 1,800 words and delved into topics only occasionally discussed in the state media. The article emphatically repeated past declarations that changes modeled on American or European political systems were inappropriate for China. It also appeared to directly reject Mr. Wen's warning that economic progress and political reforms were inseparably linked.
''The idea that China's political reform is seriously lagging behind its remarkable economic development is not only contrary to the law of objectivity but also to the objective facts,'' it stated.
It later added: ''In promoting political reform, we shouldn't copy the Western political system model; shouldn't engage in something like multiparty coalition government or separation of powers among the executive, legislative and judicial branches. We should stick to our own way.''
A Chinese political historian who asked not to be named in discussing the issue said, ''Obviously, this is a criticism of Wen.'' He later qualified his remark, saying the editorial amounted to ''a sideways swipe,'' noting that Mr. Wen was not explicitly named.
Still, the notion of a link is bolstered by a leaked Oct. 19 directive from Communist Party censors that ordered Internet sites and news organizations to delete all references to a recent interview of Mr. Wen by CNN. In that Sept. 23 interview, Mr. Wen said that ''the people's wishes for and needs for democracy and freedom are irresistible.''
Mr. Wen has made similar statements in previous years, and the party's more conservative majority has appeared to bristle. In 2007, after Mr. Wen publicly embraced ''universal values'' like human rights, the state-controlled press reacted with what seemed nationalistic vigor, and the term has since become taboo.
Some analysts said on Wednesday that the party's brusque reaction this time points to a growing debate over the future direction of China's political system.
''It does appear to be a direct swipe at Wen's statements,'' David Shambaugh, who heads the China Policy Program at George Washington University in Washington, said in an e-mail. ''It is more evidence of a division of views within higher levels of the party on the scope and pace of 'democratic' reform.''
Still unclear, he said, is what democratic reform means to members of the party hierarchy. Publicly, at least, virtually all debate on democracy in party journals and speeches has been limited to ways of making the party bureaucracy more responsive to ordinary citizens rather than giving those citizens a direct voice.
A Beijing scholar of the leadership, Russell Leigh Moses, called the editorial ''a reminder to cadres that the party will set the tone and terms of the debate on political reform.''
Within the system, some are skeptical that hints of a split amount to much.
''This political reform debate remains more of a rhetorical debate than an actual policy debate, about how to define China's democracy versus the West's,'' an editor with a party publication noted in a recent conversation.
''Perhaps some liberal media and intellectuals once again want to make something of Wen's recent statements,'' he said. ''But realistically, even if he is sincere, all he can do is earn a better reputation for himself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HISTORY (64%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



786 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Christie Says He Won't Budge on Scrapped Rail Tunnel

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey put a final stop on Wednesday to the most expensive public-works project in the country: a proposed rail tunnel under the Hudson River that could have doubled commuter-train service to Manhattan. 
Mr. Christie, who had already withdrawn his support for the project once a few weeks ago, said his decision to scrap it would not be reconsidered.
He said that the state's share of the costs of building the tunnel had risen to at least $3.5 billion and that, after weeks of proposing other financing methods, federal officials had not relieved New Jersey of the burden of future overruns.
''What proponents are asking me to do is hand over a blank check,'' Mr. Christie, a Republican, said in Trenton. ''I simply will not do that.''
Critics said Mr. Christie was sacrificing an avenue to economic growth in order to burnish his image as a hard-liner on government spending. Some of the harshest criticism came from Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, a New Jersey Democrat and a leading shepherd of the project. Mr. Lautenberg criticized Mr. Christie for spending time campaigning in other states while the project's fate was so precarious.
''Today he killed the project for improving New Jersey's economy and creating thousands of new jobs,'' Mr. Lautenberg said, alluding to the 6,000 construction jobs that the project was supposed to provide.
The tunnel, known as Access to the Region's Core, would have created a station deep below 34th Street in Midtown. For the past century, trains traveling from New Jersey to New York City have been confined to a pair of single-track tunnels that connect to Pennsylvania Station and that are owned by Amtrak. The new pair of tunnels would have been controlled by New Jersey Transit, the lead agency on the project.
The planned rail had received broad support from elected officials on both sides of the Hudson, but no New York City or state agency had pledged any money. The bulk of the money was to come from the federal Transportation Department and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which had committed $3 billion each. New Jersey was responsible for the balance of the cost, which had been estimated at $8.7 billion through the summer.
But last month, when Mr. Christie learned that the federal estimates had risen significantly, he called for a review of the project. Then, this month, he said he would cancel the project because it could cost at least $2.3 billion more than forecast.
The federal transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, persuaded Mr. Christie to give his staff two weeks to overcome the governor's objections.
On Wednesday, Mr. LaHood said he was ''extremely disappointed'' and called the governor's decision ''a devastating blow to thousands of workers, millions of commuters and the state's economic future.'' He said New Jersey must repay $350 million that the federal government had spent on the project.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The entrance to the Hudson train tunnel that was being built to connect North Bergen, N.J., and Manhattan. The project has been halted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TRAINS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (78%); RAY LAHOOD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



787 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Obama Set to Offer Stricter Nuclear Deal to Iran, Officials Say

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration and its European allies are preparing a new offer for negotiations with Iran on its nuclear program, senior administration officials say, but the conditions on Tehran would be even more onerous than a deal that the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, rejected last year.
Iran's reaction, officials say, will be the first test of whether a new and surprisingly broad set of economic sanctions is changing Iran's nuclear calculus. As recently as last summer, senior officials, ranging from the C.I.A. director, Leon E. Panetta, to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, predicted that while the sanctions would hurt Iran, it was unlikely they would prove sufficient to force it to give up the major elements of its nuclear program. 
A senior American official said Wednesday that the United States and its partners were ''very close to having an agreement'' on a common position to present to Iran. But the Iranians have not responded to a request from Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, to meet in Vienna in mid-November. Iran insisted that Ms. Ashton first tell them when sanctions would end, when Israel would give up what it called ''the Zionist bomb'' and when the United States would eliminate its nuclear weapons.
The new offer would require Iran to send more than 4,400 pounds of low-enriched uranium out of the country, an increase of more than two-thirds from the amount required under a tentative deal struck in Vienna a year ago. The increase reflects the fact that Iran has steadily produced more uranium over the past year, and the American goal is to make sure that Iran has less than one bomb's worth of uranium on hand.
Iran would also have to halt all production of nuclear fuel that it is currently enriching to 20 percent -- an important step on the way to bomb-grade levels. It would also have to make good on its agreement to negotiate on the future of its nuclear program.
The failed 2009 accord was scuttled by hard-liners in Tehran. A later analysis by intelligence analysts concluded that Ayatollah Khamenei personally rejected the deal, reversing the judgment of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
For that reason, many officials suspect that this latest initiative is likely to fail. But they say that it fulfills President Obama's promise to keep negotiating even while the pressure of sanctions increases.
''This will be a first sounding about whether the Iranians still think they can tough it out or are ready to negotiate,'' one senior American official said this week, declining to be identified because Washington and its European allies are debating the final details of the package they will present to Iran. ''We have to convince them that life will get worse, not better, if they don't begin to move.''
While Mr. Ahmadinejad said in New York last month that Iran was ready to return to negotiations, the country has not yet set a date to meet. Ayatollah Khamenei, speaking earlier this week in Qum -- not far from the underground enrichment plant whose existence was exposed last year -- did not sound in a mood to compromise.
''The world bullying powers have created a brouhaha about sanctions on Iran,'' he was quoted in the Iranian press on Tuesday as saying to clerics and students, ''but this nation has overcome sanctions over the past 30 years with its patience and resistance.''
While all sides have expressed a willingness to engage in new negotiations, what is happening now is more brinkmanship than give-and-take. American officials say it is not crucial for Iran to return to negotiations in earnest right away; the longer they wait, the more time available for sanctions to bite.
So far, those sanctions have been far more severe than most experts expected. Iran has faced difficulties refueling airplanes in Europe, getting some ports to accept their ships and attracting much-needed investment for oil production, officials and analysts say.
But the longer the stalemate lasts, the more uranium Iran produces. According to international nuclear inspectors, Iran already has enough fuel for two bombs, though American officials estimate it would take at least a year to enrich its current stockpile to bomb grade and then fabricate it into a weapon. ''That's a long time,'' one American official said recently, enough for the United States or Israel to take military action to stop the program, he contended.
In public statements recently, the administration has tried to harden its rhetoric about the dangers of an Iranian weapon.
Gary Samore, Mr. Obama's coordinator for countering unconventional weapons, told an audience at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington last week that if Iran acquired a weapon, it ''would have an utterly catastrophic effect'' in the region. If successful, Iran could drive other states in the Persian Gulf to seek their own nuclear weapons. An attack by Israel on Iran's facilities, he added, could set off a regional war. Mr. Samore described stopping Iran's program as his ''No. 1 job.''
Two years into office, Mr. Obama has organized an impressive sanctions regime and managed to combine diplomacy and pressure better than many experts had predicted. But so far he has little to show for it, which has prompted a discussion inside the White House about whether it would be helpful, or counterproductive, to have him talk more openly about military options.
Several European officials have discouraged that approach. But they also worry that negotiating about the fate of uranium that Iran has enriched in violation of Security Council commands could have the effect of convincing the Iranians they could retain some of their enrichment capability at the end of any negotiation.
Mr. Obama's campaign in 2008 said that would be unacceptable; as president, he has not addressed the question clearly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in Qum last week. He rejected nuclear negotiations last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHAMENEI.IR, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ALI KHAMENEI (89%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN (88%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



788 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATE IN PLAY; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Ohio Town Loosens Its Party Ties

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM; Ford Fessenden contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
DEFIANCE, Ohio -- You can forgive some Democrats for wondering why their party is not faring better in this riverside town of 17,000, a longtime stronghold of the United Auto Workers.
After all, the Obama administration's rescue of General Motors allowed the company to keep running the giant foundry here, a mainstay of the local economy. If the recession drove joblessness here beyond 13 percent, the lengthy extensions of unemployment benefits in the stimulus package enabled struggling residents to keep their homes and keep patronizing local businesses.
But bonds to the Democratic Party seem to be loosening here in northwest Ohio, after two years of hardship and a growing sense that many children will be financially worse off than their parents. Skepticism about big government has hardened, especially among the small-business owners who are an increasingly dominant civic voice.
Jami L. Young exemplifies the emerging politics. At 31, Ms. Young runs her own insurance agency. Her business has suffered badly in the recession; she had to reduce both staff and wages as more customers became delinquent on their premiums. Like many other Defiance residents, she was pleased when Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat, used federal stimulus money to build a bridge, helping to temper unemployment that had climbed to 14 percent and, despite improvement this year, remains high. 
Yet Ms. Young, who says that she supported Mr. Obama in 2008 as ''the lesser of two evils,'' now says she regrets her vote.
''He rammed health care down our throats,'' she said, predicting that the new laws would cause turmoil and hurt her business. She said that the bailouts of banks and the insurance giant A.I.G. ''were ridiculous,'' and that Mr. Obama, as president, had to bear the responsibility. She is leaning Republican in the races for the Senate and the House.
Defiance, which has a Democratic majority, though with a fiercely independent streak in the voting booth, is surrounded by a Republican-leaning county of suburbs and farms. In 2008, city voters split almost evenly in the presidential race, but Mr. Obama would do much worse here now, based on discussions with a range of residents.
The recession has left many worried and seems to have fueled an antigovernment sentiment that transcends any immediate interest in federal aid. The mood has helped Republicans gain a lead in the race for the Senate seat held by a retiring Republican, George V. Voinovich, and imperils the re-election prospects of the generally liked Mr. Strickland. (The Republican congressman from the Fifth Congressional District here, Bob Latta, does not face strong opposition.)
Ohio is the quintessential swing state, giving narrow victories to George W. Bush twice and then to Mr. Obama, and it can go for candidates of either party for Congress and governor.
Voting patterns in Defiance reflect a long-term shift in the local economy. The hulking G.M. foundry remains an economic linchpin, but it now employs only 1,300, down from 5,500 in decades past. The downsizing of auto-related factories and union jobs has coincided with the growing prominence of small-business owners and others with a decidedly skeptical view of government rules and spending.
Mayor Bob Armstrong, who retired from the G.M. plant as a supervisor after 27 years, is an ally of Mr. Strickland and a Democrat, but he admits, ''I don't hear a lot of support for Obama in this area.'' He said many people looked at federal spending and asked, ''How are we going to pay all this back?''
Local suspicion of government has also been fueled, Mr. Armstrong said, by a costly federal mandate to build a sewage system to protect the Great Lakes, requiring huge increases in local water rates.
Union stalwarts remain a significant minority, providing what hope the Democrats have of holding on to some power here.
Marvin Lemaster, 74, who calls himself ''a Joe lunch-bucket kind of guy,'' had a career at the foundry and now heads the 3,700 retirees from the U.A.W. local. ''We support those who support us,'' he said, adding that he could not forgive Mr. Latta for opposing the federal takeover of G.M., which, he said, saved jobs, pensions and health care for auto workers.
Mr. Lemaster is a firm supporter of Mr. Strickland, but has sometimes voted for Republicans like Mr. Voinovich. He said he expected to continue supporting Democrats for president.
''If it hadn't been for the stimulus plan, we'd have been in big trouble,'' he said.
But his take is not universally shared, even among people who have suffered in the recession.
Will Parker, 24, finished college in 2009 with a degree in marketing and communications. In six months of looking, he found no work here in his hometown and had to take a Web-page job in Columbus, 115 miles to the southeast, that he feels is a dead end. Mr. Parker voted for Mr. Obama and said he now felt ''voter's remorse'' because ''it feels like we're creating a welfare state.''
Mr. Parker was having a snack with a friend in Kissner's restaurant and bar, a popular gathering place downtown. At a nearby table was Ricardo Leal, 42, who has experienced a bigger downfall and has a different reaction. His Mexican restaurant and dance club went broke in 2008. He had to sell his Harley and now faces eviction from his small house.
But Mr. Leal felt that the attacks on Mr. Obama were unfair. Born in Defiance to parents who worked at G.M., Mr. Leal spoke wistfully of the era, into the 1980s, when young people had a good choice of going to college or working at the factory.
His friend Rod Taquino, a 43-year-old single parent of two teenagers, was laid off last year after 12 years at a metal-stamping factory. He has not found a job that pays enough to sustain a modest mortgage and a family. To keep his house while he looks for work, he has used up his severance and retirement money and has relied on extended unemployment benefits, which will soon expire.
''Being laid off has definitely opened my eyes to a lot of things,'' Mr. Taquino said. ''Now I've got a sour taste in my mouth for the Republicans,'' he said, because of what he called ''the greed'' reflected in their policies.
Karl Kissner, the restaurant's owner, may represent a more vocal and influential attitude in Defiance. He calls himself a Democrat but says he did not vote for Mr. Obama, and his opposition to the administration has deepened.
The health care bill, Mr. Kissner said, caused a breach with the public. The president's stimulus plan, he said, ''created a false bottom'' to the recession, making it hard to plan and invest.
Mr. Kissner said he was ''up in the air'' about his vote for governor. But for the Senate this year, he will definitely vote for Rob Portman, the Republican.
STATE IN PLAY: Two Years of Hardship: Articles in this series are looking at Ohio and the forces shaping politics there in 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Being laid off has definitely opened my eyes to a lot of things,'' said Rod Taquino, a single father who lost his job in July 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Back From the Brink, but Still Ailing: As the recession built in 2008, Ohio punished Republicans by voting for Barack Obama and adding three Democrats to its 18-member Congressional delegation. Since then, the bellwether state has been through an economic wringer, and the state's Democratic senator and governor and several of its Democratic House members are at risk.
SOMETHING DIFFERENT
LOOKING AHEAD (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 Census) (MAPS BY FORD FESSENDEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); INSURANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); CHILDREN (70%); SUBURBS (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); GOVERNORS (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); ROBERT E LATTA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



789 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Nevada Town Anguishes Over a Native Son

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
SEARCHLIGHT, Nev. -- This shrinking town in the desert has endured its indignities over the years. It has been referred to as a ghost town, a description that galls the 800 or so people who still call it home. It was once famous for its brothels, a reputation that, though hard to quarrel with, is not exactly something to brag about.
But now it has come to this. Its most famous resident, Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader -- whose house is visible from the road, who has a school and a street named after him, who can be spotted eating lunch at the smoky Searchlight Nugget Casino -- has become the symbol of a potential Democratic collapse in Washington, as polarizing a figure as exists in American politics. This has put Searchlight, with its Joshua trees, scrub brush, abandoned gold mines, coyotes, rattlesnakes and trailer parks, on the map.
Which is not exactly making its remaining inhabitants happy. People here have long celebrated the splendid isolation of Searchlight, with its views of red mountains and its roads that begin as asphalt and turn to dirt as they disappear out of town and into the wilderness; a place that is 40 miles from the nearest supermarket and always seemed suited to Mr. Reid's personality. 
''If you don't want to be with people, this is the place to be,'' said Robert Pierce, 83.
Yet this isolation has become endangered. There was the huge ''Showdown in Searchlight'' Tea Party rally led by Sarah Palin on the edge of town in May, which ushered in a march of news organizations chronicling what could be Mr. Reid's last days in politics as he faces a challenge from Sharron Angle, a Republican candidate with Tea Party support.
''I don't understand the reporters coming,'' Verlie Doing, 86, the owner of the Nugget and one of Mr. Reid's closest friends, said as she sat amid the afternoon gamblers. ''The other day I started upstairs and I had one from Argentina and another one from Switzerland. And I had one from England that just didn't stop.''
And neighbor or not -- and ''bring home the bacon'' benefactor or not -- Mr. Reid has become as contentious a figure in Searchlight as he is in the rest of the state. The mere mention of his name is apt to set off disagreements among even the best of friends.
''I just think he is a real phony,'' John McCoy, 50, said as he and Joan Mesenbrink wandered around to a tiny graveyard carved into rocks on top of a hill, where Mr. Reid's family is buried and where Mr. Reid intends to be buried.
Ms. Mesenbrink steeled her eyes as she glanced over the mountains. ''Well I'll tell you this: Harry Reid is dedicated. Whether you like him or not, he is very dedicated to this town and the people who are in it.''
Searchlight, 60 miles south of Las Vegas, rising on hillsides along U.S. 95 after 35 vast miles of untouched desert, stands as a rather extreme example of the economic problems that have darkened this state and become Mr. Reid's political bane.
Once, this was a thriving gold mining town. ''Searchlight once surpassed Las Vegas in population,'' announced a scratchy recording triggered by stepping through the door of the Searchlight Community Center and Museum. Mr. Reid is honored in the one-room museum, as are two other famous people with Searchlight associations: the composer Scott Joplin, who wrote ''Searchlight Rag,'' and Edith Head, who was born here and won eight Academy Awards for costume design.
These days, the mines and the brothels are gone, and Searchlight is more a collection of double-wide trailers and abandoned homes for sale; even a church has a ''for sale'' sign on it. A housing development contains, along with a scattering of relatively new homes, rows of dusty plots that suggest the unrealized hopes of a developer. A photographer taking a picture of Harry Reid Road was chased away by a Mojave green rattlesnake -- among the most venomous in North America -- that, with a thick rattle, raised its head at the unusual sight of a person walking the streets of Searchlight.
''This town's getting old, let's put it that way,'' said Harold Harper, who used to be the town constable, when there was a town constable. ''There are mostly just older people who don't get out much.''
Civic pride remains strong here, on display at the Nugget, where coffee goes for 10 cents a cup. But for the most part, people have learned to avoid the subject of Mr. Reid in this election season.
''It's split right down the center,'' Jon Palmer said as he sat by a slot machine. ''I hear as many good things as bad things. And you have to remember that a lot of people here went to elementary school with Harry Reid.''
Mr. Palmer widened his eyes at the suggestion -- heard frequently by some of Mr. Reid's neighbors -- that all this attention was not good for the town.
''It is absolutely positive,'' he said. ''How many people in the United States, including Obama, knew where Searchlight was?''
Asked if people here are proud to have Mr. Reid come from this town, Ms. Doing responded: ''They always have been. Now, I don't know.''
Mr. Reid was born and raised here, though he seems as reclusive in Searchlight as he is in Washington. People know he is in town when the shutters come down on the house and the black vans operated by the Capitol Police are parked outside.
''You just never know,'' Ms. Mesenbrink said. ''He came out for when Judy Hill retired from the Post Office and we had a big party for her at the Nugget. He just showed up.''
Here, as in the rest of Nevada, no one is willing to guess who is going to win on Tuesday. But most people think that if Ms. Angle becomes Senator Angle, Mr. Reid will be back in Searchlight.
''He's pretty tough, I think he'll take it in stride,'' Ms. Doing said of a potential loss. ''He has great religious faith. He's not going to have a nervous breakdown over it, I am certain of that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about Searchlight, Nev., hometown of the Senate majority leader, referred incorrectly to a thoroughfare named for him in a forlorn part of town. As a photograph with the article showed, it is Harry Reid Road, not Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Searchlight Nugget Casino is a gathering place in Senator Harry Reid's hometown.
''I hear as many good things as bad things,'' Jon Palmer, at the casino, said of Mr. Reid
A street and a school are named for Mr. Reid, who was first elected to the Senate in 1986.
 But in his re-election bid, he faces as much of a battle here as he does in the rest of the state. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TRAILER PARKS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (90%); SARAH PALIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



790 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Change as Promised, Just Not Overnight

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- If you are president of the United States and you take your campaign get-out-the-vote blitz to a fake news program, do you get tweaked, or do you get a pass?
You get tweaked, as President Obama discovered Wednesday, when he made his first appearance as president on ''The Daily Show'' on Comedy Central. As the host, Jon Stewart, needled him, the president declared that he never promised transformational change overnight.
''You ran on very high rhetoric, hope and change, and the Democrats this year seem to be running on, 'Please baby, one more chance,' '' Mr. Stewart said at one point. At another, he wondered aloud whether Mr. Obama had traded the audacity of 2008 for pragmatism in 2010, offering a platform of ''Yes we can, given certain conditions.'' 
Mr. Obama paused for a moment. ''I think I would say, 'Yes we can, but ---- ''
Mr. Stewart, laughing, cut him off. The president pushed ahead, finishing his sentence: ''But it's not going to happen overnight.''
The gentle ribbing was perhaps a price the White House was willing to pay for the opportunity to reach Mr. Stewart's valuable audience -- young people who turned out in droves for the president, but who are deeply dissatisfied with him. Mr. Obama is spending the waning days of the election season trying to motivate that crowd to get to the polls, and he closed the interview by urging them to do just that, telling Mr. Stewart he wanted to make ''a plug just to vote.''
Mr. Stewart, for his part, pressed the president with the standard liberal critique, accusing him of pursuing a legislative agenda that ''felt timid at times'' -- a characterization Mr. Obama fiercely disputed.
The president wound up defending his health bill, members of Congress and even members of his administration. When Mr. Stewart asked why Mr. Obama, after promising to shake things up, had brought in old Democratic hands like Lawrence H. Summers, the Clinton Treasury secretary, Mr. Obama offered what, for Mr. Summers, was perhaps an unfortunate reply.
''In fairness,'' he said, ''Larry Summers did a heck of a job.''
Late-night television has come a long way since Bill Clinton, then a presidential candidate, played his saxophone for Arsenio Hall in 1992. The lines between entertainment and news are increasingly blurred -- in part because Mr. Obama has been willing to take his presidential platform to settings his predecessors might have viewed as unconventional.
Mr. Obama has appeared as president on ''The Tonight Show with Jay Leno'' and ''Late Show with David Letterman''; over the summer, he dished with the doyennes of daytime television on ABC's ''The View.'' (''I wanted to pick a show that Michelle actually watches,'' he told them.)
''The Daily Show'' interview was taped in the run-up to a rally Mr. Stewart and his fellow Comedy Central host, Stephen Colbert, are hosting Saturday on the National Mall. It went longer than anticipated -- so long, in fact, that the show's producers decided to cut the original introduction Mr. Stewart taped, which featured a riff of the host fiddling with a pen and tapping his fingers as he pretended to make the president wait in the wings, and his introduction of Mr. Obama as ''White House chairman of the Council of Economic AdvisersAustan Goolsbee's boss.''
In the interview, Mr. Obama conceded that he understands the feeling among his supporters that he has not fundamentally changed the way Washington does business.
''When we promised during the campaign 'change you can believe in,' it wasn't 'change you can believe in in 18 months,' '' he said. ''It was 'change you can believe in -- but we're going to have to work for it.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Stewart took ''The Daily Show'' to Washington, needling President Obama in person. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); DAVID LETTERMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010



791 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Verizon Deal Ends Inquiry Over Fees

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Verizon Wireless, the nation's largest mobile phone carrier, will pay $25 million to end an investigation into complaints that it had charged 15 million cellphone customers unauthorized data fees over the last three years, the Federal Communications Commission announced Thursday.
Verizon announced this month that it intended to refund money to its customers for the unauthorized charges. Under a consent decree with the F.C.C. announced Thursday, the company also will pay a minimum of $52.8 million in refunds. 
The $25 million settlement is the largest payment under a consent decree in the F.C.C's history, said Michele Ellison, chief of the agency's enforcement bureau.
''Today's settlement requires Verizon Wireless to make meaningful business reforms, prevent future overcharges and provide consumers clear, easy-to-understand information about their choices,'' Ms. Ellison said. ''I am gratified by the cooperation of the Verizon Wireless team in the face of these issues and pleased they are taking the high road.''
In a statement, Verizon said: ''We are a company that listens to its customers and in this case we got to the bottom of a problem and resolved the errors. We have taken this action because it is the right thing to do.''
The long road to the settlement began in November 2007, when customers first started experiencing and then complaining about mysterious $1.99 charges on their monthly phone bills for data sessions that they had not initiated.
The F.C.C. said it started investigating last January after a large number of customer complaints about the charges and after reports in 2009 in The Plain Dealer of Cleveland and The New York Times.
The charges affected customers with a ''pay as you go'' plan for data or Internet access. Verizon said the ''vast majority'' of the erroneous charges were incurred when software that was preloaded on some phones automatically contacted Verizon's data service in what the company called an ''acknowledgment'' session.
Verizon said that in September 2009 it put in place a feature to limit those inadvertent charges. In addition, the company said it had sometimes accidentally charged customers for access to Web sites through links that were not supposed to lead to data charges. Many customers complained that if they had accidentally hit a wrong button on their flip phones, they would be connected to the Internet and charged a $1.99 fee.
The F.C.C. required and Verizon agreed to take steps to prevent such charges in the future. The company said those steps included software changes to remove automatic acknowledgments between Verizon data centers and phones, and new internal controls that would prevent charges when customers accessed free Web site links. In addition, the company will put in place a data charge task force to monitor and resolve complaints. The task force must report regularly to the F.C.C.
The F.C.C. and Verizon also agreed that the company would initiate customer service improvements, including clearer explanations of its pay-as-you-go data charges and ways for customers to avoid extra charges; an online video tutorial to help consumers understand their bills; and additional training for Verizon customer representatives on pay-as-you-go plans.
Verizon has begun notifying customers eligible for refunds, and it will apply credits or, in the case of former customers, mail checks for the refund amounts in October and November. Most of the credits range from $2 to $6, Verizon said. About 77 million of its customers, or roughly five out of six, are unaffected, the company said.
Customers who do not receive a refund but believe they had unauthorized data charges can appeal and receive a resolution within 30 days, the F.C.C. said.
Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman, said the settlement ''will serve as a significant deterrent to others in the future.''
Mr. Genachowski added: ''Today's consent decree sends a clear message to American consumers -- the F.C.C. has got your back. People shouldn't find mystery fees when they open their phone bills, and they certainly shouldn't have to pay for services they didn't want and didn't use. In these rough economic times, every $1.99 counts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (57%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



792 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Cheap Debt Fuels Private Equity Revival

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
The Blackstone Group and the Carlyle Group demonstrated on Thursday that the private equity industry is thriving amid a weak economy -- but they did so in nearly opposing ways.
Blackstone, in reporting a 23 percent jump in third-quarter earnings, said it had found the market to buy out companies unappetizing. ''There are some good companies being sold, but we just can't get to the prices that are required,'' Hamilton E. James, the company's president, said Thursday morning.
Carlyle, though, is gobbling up companies. Not long after Mr. James's bearish comments, Carlyle announced a $2.6 billion deal for Syniverse Technologies, a voice and data services provider for telecommunications companies. On Wednesday, it completed a $3 billion takeover of CommScope, a maker of telecommunications equipment. 
The divergent approaches highlight how cheap corporate debt is fueling the recovery of the private equity business. While it remains difficult to get a mortgage to buy a home or to get a loan to fund a small business, yield-starved investors are creating a robust market for corporate bonds and loans.
Private equity firms are seizing upon the corporate-debt boom in myriad ways. For the debt-heavy companies they already own, Blackstone and Carlyle are improving their balance sheets through aggressive refinancing. Corporate loans are now available to do multibillion-dollar buyouts, too, but the easy lending environment has created fierce competition for takeover targets, driving up prices. The corporate loan market ''is almost hard to believe,'' Mr. James of Blackstone said.
Private equity's outlook is certainly brighter today than it was one year ago. Buyout firms have made $173 billion worth of deals this year, up 95 percent from last year, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
Blackstone, co-founded by Stephen A. Schwarzman, may be reluctant to do deals at the moment, but its earnings report underscored just how favorable the environment has become. The New York-based firm, with $119 billion in assets under management, said its third-quarter profits were bolstered by sharp increases in the value of its real estate holdings.
More than 50 percent of the debt carried by Blackstone companies has either been refinanced at a lower cost or modified with better terms, Mr. James said.
Carlyle, meanwhile, which is based in Washington and whose public face is David M. Rubenstein, is proving that it is unafraid to pay a high price for companies. The buyout firm's $31-a-share bid for Syniverse is 45 percent higher than the company's average closing price for the past 30 days. Its $31.50-a-share offer for CommScope, meanwhile, is 39 percent higher than the company's 30-day average stock price.
Carlyle and Blackstone have billions of dollars in investor capital to put to work. Blackstone has invested more than $7.2 billion of investor capital in private equity and real estate deals since the fourth quarter of last year, though it has announced only one major buyout this year: the $4.7 billion takeover of Dynegy, whose purchase price includes the assumption of the energy company's debt.
Carlyle has invested about $5.8 billion in private equity and real estate this year, more than the $5.2 billion it spent in all of last year. (That figure does not include the Syniverse and CommScope deals.) The firm was behind four of the biggest leveraged buyouts announced this year, including those of Syniverse, CommScope, the vitamin maker NBTY and the Australian hospital operator Healthscope.
Traditionally, Carlyle is not shy about bidding up. In his annual e-mail to employees, William E. Conway Jr., a founder and the firm's investment chief, hinted that it is O.K. to pay up for good businesses.
''Of course higher quality assets are never cheap and may initially model at a lower expected'' return, he wrote in the message, which was sent in February. ''I believe the actual returns will exceed the model returns on these high-quality transactions. The decision to do the deal (or not) will always trump the impact of the final price negotiation. If you do great deals you will get great results.''
Historically, Blackstone has been more averse to pay a premium for its deals, though it did on the buyouts of Equity Office Properties Trust and Hilton Hotels during the equity bubble of 2006 and 2007.
Other buyout firms are also showing some hesitance about jumping headlong into expensive deals. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is now leaning against making a bid for Seagate Technology, the hard drive maker, alongside TPG, according to a person briefed on the matter.
While they may differ on current buyout opportunities, Blackstone and Carlyle share several investments that they are preparing to take public, including the media company Nielsen. The two firms also joined forces in April 2009 to buy BankUnited, an ailing Florida lender. Eighteen months later, the bank's results have now stabilized and the firms are prepping an initial public offering to raise $500 million that the bank will use to expand into New York and other locations.
Still, the firms are suffering the effects of having gotten caught up in last decade's leveraged buyout binge. Blackstone and Carlyle teamed up with two other firms to buy Freescale Semiconductor for $17.6 billion in 2006. Soon after, the chip market collapsed and the deal was widely denounced.
Now, even Freescale is showing signs of life. The value of the investment remains under water, with the firms having it marked down by about 65 percent, according to people with direct knowledge of their valuations. But amid a sharp turnaround in the semiconductor market, Freescale results have improved, recently posting a 29 percent year-over-year revenue increase.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David M. Rubenstein, left, a founder of the Carlyle Group, and Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the Blackstone Group. The loan market has benefited the companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); BLACKSTONE CO INC (65%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); SYNIVERSE HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC2431 MILLWORK (65%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



793 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: China Said To Resume Rare Earth Shipments

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Mark Landler contributed reporting from Honolulu.

 BODY:
BAOTOU, China -- The Chinese government on Thursday abruptly ended its unannounced export embargo on crucial rare earth minerals to the United States, Europe and Japan, four industry officials said.
The embargo, which has raised trade tensions, ended as it had begun -- with no official acknowledgment from Beijing, or any explanation from customs agents at China's ports.
Rare earths are increasingly in demand for their use in a broad range of sophisticated electronics, from smartphones to smart bombs.
Having blocked shipments of raw rare earth minerals to Japan since mid-September, and to the United States and Europe since early last week, Chinese customs agents on Thursday morning allowed shipments to resume to all three destinations, the industry officials said. They spoke only on condition of anonymity because of the business and diplomatic delicacy of the issue. 
Shipments to Japan, however, still face additional scrutiny and some delays, the officials said.
Even with containers of rare earths once again leaving China's docks, foreign buyers still face potential shortages. As China's own industrial needs for rare earths have grown, Beijing has repeatedly reduced its export quotas for the minerals over the last five years. So even when China is shipping its full quotas, the outbound supply is now well below world demand.
Moreover, the tight export quotas have caused world prices to soar, even while holding steady in China.
Officials in two departments of China's General Administration of Customs in Beijing declined to comment on Thursday evening about the status of rare earth exports. The commerce ministry, which handles trade policy, also had no immediate comment.
Although deposits of rare earths are found in various parts of the world, including the United States, China produces about 95 percent of the global supply of the minerals. That is largely because rare earth mining and processing can be so environmentally risky, creating toxic and even radioactive wastes, that other countries have tended to avoid or abandon production. Only recently have other nations begun scrambling to develop or expand their own mining capabilities.
The Chinese shipments resumed Thursday morning only hours before Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton raised the embargo issue at a news conference in Honolulu, where she announced plans to visit China on Saturday to pursue the matter with Chinese officials.
Mrs. Clinton spoke after meeting with Japan's foreign minister, Seiji Maehara, and said that the suspension of shipments had been a ''wake-up call'' and that both countries would have to find alternative sources of rare earth materials.
Because China is on the opposite side of the international dateline from Honolulu, it was already midday on Thursday in China by the time Mrs. Clinton spoke in Honolulu on Wednesday. Later, after the New York Times Web site reported that the embargo had been lifted, an administration official said the United States was still seeking clarification from China.
In recent weeks, senior Chinese commerce ministry officials have insisted that they had not issued any regulations halting shipments. They have suggested at various times -- implausibly, in the view of industry executives -- that the halt resulted from a spontaneous and simultaneous decision by the country's 32 authorized rare earth exporters not to make shipments, whether because of a deterioration in Sino-Japanese relations or a greater thoroughness on the part of customs inspectors.
Under this year's quota -- 30,300 metric tons of authorized shipments -- only a few thousand metric tons remain to be exported in 2010. Meanwhile, annual demand outside China for raw rare earths approaches 50,000 tons, according to industry estimates.
The Chinese government assigns its quotas to the authorized exporters, who often trade those rights like commodities. As recently as 2008, the quota rights themselves had no market value. But lately, with rising demand, the value of the remaining quotas has soared to the point that the right to export a single ton of rare earths from China now sells for about $40,000, including special Chinese taxes.
That is a sizable, additional cost for buyers of neodymium, a rare earth used to make lightweight, powerful magnets essential to technologies including giant wind turbines, gasoline-electric cars and Apple iPhones.
Neodymium sells for about $40,000 a metric ton in China, having recovered from a nose-dive during the global economic crisis. But it sells for twice that much outside the country because of the export restrictions, according to data from Metal Pages, a database service in London.
The cost of quotas has become exorbitant for users of lanthanum, which is vital for the catalytic converters that clean the exhaust of conventional, gasoline-powered cars. It is mostly produced here in Baotou, a smoggy mining and steel city in China's Inner Mongolia that is the capital of China's rare earth industry. Lanthanum sells for less than $4,500 a ton in China, but up to 10 times that much outside China because of the export restrictions.
Such price differences have created a big incentive for companies to move factories to China, and many already have.
China's shipping embargo has caused much more distress in Japan than in the United States or Europe, and not just because Japan's shipments were cut off much earlier. It is because Japan tends to be affected more than other industrial nations by the way China sets its rare earth export quotas.
China's quotas -- and the shipping embargo -- have involved only shipments in which the material has a rare earth content of about 50 percent or more. High-technology materials made from rare earths, like special magnetic powders for the clean energy and electronics industries, or polishing powders for the glass industry, are not subject to quotas and are inexpensively available.
Because the United States and Europe mainly buy highly processed rare earth powders from China, the customs policy of blocking shipments of raw rare earths had a limited, mostly symbolic effect. Japan, in contrast, is the biggest importer of raw rare earths and tends to process them into industrial materials. So Japan is more dependent on the materials affected by China's tightening quotas.
It was on Oct. 18 that the Chinese government broadened its halt in raw rare earths to include the United States and Europe. That step enabled customs officials to take the position that they were checking all rare earth shipments closely and were not singling out Japan.
The move also occurred only hours after Zhang Guobao, the country's top energy official, summoned foreign reporters in Beijing. There, he delivered a blistering denunciation of the Obama administration's decision the previous Friday to begin investigating whether China's clean energy policies violated the World Trade Organization's free trade rules. But the exact interaction between American policy decisions and Chinese customs enforcement actions is unclear.
For China, the embargo on rare earth shipments has provided at least some geopolitical leverage. The halt was one of a series of measures that China took after Japan detained the captain of a Chinese fishing trawler that collided with two Japanese patrol boats; Japan later released the trawler's captain.
Japanese companies had been able to weather the embargo without any significant factory shutdowns because many Japanese companies had accumulated rare earth stockpiles in the last few years. Still, the interruption of shipments caused dismay and alarm in the Japanese business community and Japan's government.
But China's willingness to play economic hardball could yet have long-term drawbacks, if it prompts multinationals to reduce their reliance on manufacturing in China and spread their investments among more countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soil containing rare earth minerals at a port in Lianyungang, China. Chinese producers currently account for about 95 percent of the global supply of the minerals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHARTS: Making Rare Earth Scarce: China has cut exports of rare earths, though demand from other countries has not changed much over the years. Instead, other countries have built factories in China to make sure they have access to the essential minerals. (Source: Industrial Minerals Company of Australia)
 Costly Mineral: By tightening export quotas, China has driven up the global price of a crucial rare earth, while keeping the price low in its home market. (Source: Metal Pages) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); MISC METAL MINING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



794 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: A Boom With Little Echo

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
NIPTON, Calif. -- The long-promised solar building boom in the desert Southwest is finally under way. Here in the Mojave Desert, a dice throw away from the Nevada border, giant road graders and a small army of laborers began turning the dirt for BrightSource Energy's $2 billion Ivanpah project, the first large-scale solar thermal power plant to be built in the United States in two decades.
The Ivanpah plant is the first of nine multibillion-dollar solar farms in California and Arizona that are expected to begin construction before the end of the year as developers race to qualify for tens of billions of dollars in federal grants and loan guarantees that are about to expire. The new plants will generate nearly 4,000 megawatts of electricity if built -- enough to power three million homes.
But this first wave may very well be the last for a long time, according to industry executives. Without continued government incentives that vastly reduce the risks to investors, solar companies planning another dozen or so plants say they may not be able to raise enough capital to proceed. 
''I think we're going to see a burst of projects over the next two months and then you're going to hear the sounds of silence for quite a while,'' said David Crane, chief executive of NRG Energy, on Wednesday after he announced that his company would invest $300 million in the Ivanpah plant.
Solar developers depend on two federal programs to make their projects financially viable. The most crucial is a loan guarantee program, expiring next September, that allows them to borrow money on favorable terms to finance up to 80 percent of construction costs.
The other is the option to take a 30 percent tax credit in the form of a cash payment once a project is built. Although the tax credit does not expire until the end of 2016, the option to take it as a cash payment disappears this year, making it far less valuable to a start-up company that is just beginning to generate revenue.
With both Democrats and Republicans promising to rein in the federal budget, it is unclear whether lawmakers will extend the programs in any form. ''That could stall a number of projects and even lead to the failure of some,'' said Ted Sullivan, an analyst with Lux Research, a consulting firm in New York.
Yet no one in the desert here wants to think too much about those looming clouds.
''Ivanpah represents a transformational moment in our energy equation,'' said John Woolard, BrightSource's chief executive, who was joined Wednesday by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Interior Secretary Ken Salazar at Ivanpah's groundbreaking. ''It demonstrates that the U.S. can lead in the drive for renewable energy at scale by building the largest solar plant in the world with new technology.''
The eight California projects that are expected to break ground this year will turn 46 square miles of the desert into a futuristic landscape of mirrors, towers and solar dishes. State officials estimate the plants will create 8,000 jobs in a state with a 12.4 percent unemployment rate.
During its three years of construction, Ivanpah will employ as many as 1,000 laborers in a recession-scarred region.
''In the last year, I haven't worked,'' said Basilio Yniguez, a 36-year-old pipefitter and father of seven, as he helped build a holding pen last week for threatened desert tortoises on the Ivanpah site. ''Thanks to the green thing going up, I'm working.''
The state is supporting the industry in part by mandating that California utilities get a third of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020.
''When you look at the raw number of kilowatt-hours we need, I don't see how you get there without large central station solar projects,'' said Pedro Pizarro, a top executive with Southern California Edison, one of the state's largest utilities.
Unlike the photovoltaic panel systems found on rooftops, most of the new solar plants will use thousands of large mirrors to heat liquids to generate steam that drives conventional electricity-generating turbines.
''Without the Department of Energy coming in to assume a lot of the risk, you might not find lenders willing to lend, particularly if you're a start-up with untried technology,'' said Nathaniel Bullard, a solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Other hurdles also stand in the way of the solar expansion. For some plants, multibillion-dollar transmission lines must be built to carry electricity from the desert to cities. Some environmentalists continue to oppose the projects' impact on imperiled wildlife, like the desert tortoise, and may sue to stop construction.
The competitiveness of large-scale solar thermal plants in California also depends on the cost of natural gas, the state's dominant source of electricity. According to Mr. Bullard, gas-fueled plants can produce electricity for about 10 cents a kilowatt-hour. After including the government subsidies, solar thermal plants are expected to generate power at 13 to 17 cents a kilowatt-hour, which the industry says is close enough in price to be competitive.
So far, Ivanpah is the only California solar thermal project to win a government loan guarantee, although other projects have applied and are awaiting decisions from the Energy Department.
''We are sensitive to the deadlines and are doing everything we can so that these projects can move forward,'' said Jonathan Silver, the executive director of the department's loan program. ''There's a significant demand for these funds.''
The uncertainty has left even some of the licensed solar projects in limbo.
Tessera Solar, based in Houston, has received federal approval to build two solar power plants that together would generate nearly 1,400 megawatts from 54,900 large solar dishes installed on 10,000 acres of government land. The company is seeking loan guarantees to help finance more than $4.6 billion in construction costs.
''This is a very significant amount of funding to secure in these tough markets,'' Janette Coates, a Tessera spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. ''The actual start of construction will depend on progress with both the D.O.E. loan guarantee process and the project equity process.''
Last month, Tessera suspended a much smaller project in Texas when it could not obtain private financing to build the 27-megawatt Marfa solar power plant.
Solar Millennium, a German developer, is seeking a $1.9 billion loan guarantee to build the first two phases of a 1,000-megawatt solar power plant that received federal approval on Monday.
Uwe T. Schmidt, chairman and chief executive of Solar Trust of America, Solar Millennium's American division, said he expected work to begin in November on the $6 billion Blythe project, which will cover 11 square miles of the Southern California desert with long rows of parabolic mirrors.
Mr. Schmidt said that while Solar Millennium had found investors interested in financing the Blythe plant, the looming expiration of the cash grants would make it more difficult to finance future projects. ''We're seeing that the loan guarantee is an absolute necessity for building some of these larger projects,'' he said.
Assisted by deep-pocketed backers like Bechtel, Google and Morgan Stanley, BrightSource seems determined to press forward with its 370-megawatt Ivanpah plant no matter what happens on the policy front.
Last week, 30 biologists in green hard hats were methodically sweeping through the creosote bushes looking for desert tortoises. The animals must be relocated before the first of 347,000 mirrors the size of garage doors are installed around three 459-foot towers topped by water-filled boilers.
''Good projects will still move forward, but just not as many,'' said Mr. Woolard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BrightSource Energy is building a 370-megawatt, $2 billion solar thermal power plant in Southern California near Nevada. Below, desert tortoises must be relocated as part of the project before 347,000 huge mirrors can be installed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA RAUCH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
TODD WOODY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A biologist attaching a radio transmitter to a juvenile desert tortoise to monitor it after its move out of the construction zone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD WOODY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); DESERTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STARTUPS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TAX LAW (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%); GRANTS & GIFTS (54%)

COMPANY: BRIGHTSOURCE ENERGY INC (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221114 SOLAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (74%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); KEN SALAZAR (51%); DAVID W CRANE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); MOJAVE DESERT (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



795 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: A Few Good Albany Candidates

 BODY:
Albany needs sweeping change. Gerrymandering and anything-goes campaign finance ''rules'' guarantee that most of the hacks will be back next year, working to ensure nothing ever changes. 
If there is any doubt, consider this grim fact: some of the Legislature's worst enablers -- starting with the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver -- have no opponent on the ballot. Other members of Albany's hall of shame -- Senators John Sampson, Malcolm Smith, Ruben Diaz Sr. and Carl Kruger -- barely have challengers.
The only good news is that there are a few competitive races and a few candidates committed to changing the system who are worth electing. Here is our list:
STATE SENATE DISTRICT 11 IN QUEENS Tony Avella, a former city councilman and an independent-minded Democrat, is challenging Frank Padavan, a Republican who has served in the State Senate for almost 40 years.
Mr. Avella supports women's rights and promises to champion ethics reform. He is particularly interested in ending gerrymandering, citing his district as a poster child for the way electoral borders are drawn to ensure incumbents keep getting elected. Although Mr. Padavan has fought admirably against casinos and human trafficking, he has also fought against women's reproductive rights, same-sex marriage and immigration reform.
We support Tony Avella, the Democrat, in District 11.
STATE SENATE DISTRICT 37 IN WESTCHESTER COUNTY The Republican candidate, Bob Cohen, dares to name United States Senator Jacob Javits -- a voice of thoughtful moderation -- as his hero. He is challenging Senator Suzi Oppenheimer, a Democrat, who has held the seat for 26 years.
A real estate executive and political newcomer, Mr. Cohen has promised to focus on straightening out the mess of a state budget. He wants to cap state spending with adjustments for inflation, set long-term targets for Medicaid and schools, and eliminate ''all V.I.P. tax credits to politically connected insiders.'' Mr. Cohen says he wants to work with both sides of the aisle, a revolutionary idea, especially in this polarized year. Senator Oppenheimer is a person of integrity, but she has too little to show for her years in Albany.
We support Bob Cohen, the Republican, in District 37.
STATE SENATE DISTRICT 40 IN WESTCHESTER, PUTNAM AND DUTCHESS COUNTIES This is a rare open seat to replace Senator Vincent Leibell, a Republican who is retiring. Michael Kaplowitz, a Democratic legislator in Westchester County, has promising ideas about property tax relief for seniors, pension reform for unions and cutting Albany sleaze. His Republican opponent, Assemblyman Greg Ball, has shown that he knows how to fight, but not how to win legislative victories.
We support Democrat Michael Kaplowitz in Dist. 40.
STATE SENATE DISTRICT 41 IN DUTCHESS AND COLUMBIA COUNTIES Didi Barrett, a community activist, is challenging Senator Stephen Saland, a Republican who has been in the Legislature for 30 years, the last 20 in the Senate. Ms. Barrett supports a long list of reforms that Senator Saland has rejected. She promises to push for real ethics reform and real campaign finance reform, including public financing, and to protect women's reproductive rights.
We support Didi Barrett, the Democrat, in District 41.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); WOMEN (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); MEDICAID (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); TAX RELIEF (61%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (51%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%); MARRIAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



796 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Strange Tales In the Land Of No Return

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Now the government really is selling bonds that deserve the label ''certificates of confiscation.''
This week the United States Treasury sold bonds for a price that may be greater than the total amount of cash an investor will get from holding the bond to maturity in 2015.
That appears to be a first for this or any other government. When all is done, the Treasury may have managed to borrow money at a negative interest rate. Put another way, buyers of the bonds might have done better if they stuffed the money in their mattresses.
We'll get to the details of the bond later. But first we'll note that buyers of the bonds could make out O.K. if inflation soars. The bonds are inflation-protected. So there is a chance, albeit perhaps a small one, that this will prove to be a really profitable investment. 
The same cannot be said for conventional bonds from the Treasury or from high-quality corporate borrowers. There the rates are minuscule, and the upside nonexistent.
Only two months ago, people were shocked to hear that I.B.M. had issued three-year bonds with a coupon of only 1 percent. That rate seems a little high now. In September, Microsoft paid seven-eighths of a percent on similar bonds. Then this month Wal-Mart borrowed at three-quarters of a percent.
If you bought a $1,000 Wal-Mart bond at par when it was issued, you would get a check for $3.75 every six months. Then in three years you get your $1,000 back.
The term ''certificate of confiscation'' was coined in the late 1970s, when inflation was rising. ''If you took the coupon payment, adjusted for inflation and taxes, you had a negative real return,'' said Leon Cooperman, who may have been the first to use the term. Mr. Cooperman now runs Omega Advisors, a hedge fund manager, but then was a strategist for Goldman Sachs.
By the time the concept became popular, around 1980, Treasury bonds had nominal yields of more than 10 percent and were despised. (To his credit, by then Mr. Cooperman was suggesting such bonds could be good investments.)
When I called Mr. Cooperman this week and told him I wanted to talk about bonds, he immediately brought up the confiscation theme, saying it was truer now than ever.
Incredibly enough, at the auction this week, investors locked in a negative real return of 0.55 percent. This is a bond that comes with a promise the investor will not keep up with inflation.
Here's how this bond will work for the four and a half years until it matures. Every six months, the holder of a $100 bond will get one-quarter of 1 percent of whatever the principal value is at that point. That value will rise, or perhaps fall, with the Consumer Price Index. When the bond matures, in April 2015, the bondholder will get the principal value back.
And how much will the principal value be? The government will use a combination of the C.P.I. figures, before seasonal adjustments, for January and February 2015. If that figure is below 228.65, the investor will get back less than the $105.50 he or she paid for the bond this week. The C.P.I. in September was 218.44, so cumulative inflation of 4.7 percent, or a little over 1 percent a year, is needed for the investor to break even. If the 2015 C.P.I. is higher, there will be a profit.
If we have deflation, as some fear, the buyer does get a bit of a break. He or she will get back $100 even if the C.P.I. has fallen a lot.
This week's auction was a reopening of a Treasury security sold six months ago. Next April, there will be an auction for a newly issued series of bonds. If the market then is around where it is now, that auction will lead to a zero-coupon Treasury, one with no dividend payments at all, and the possibility of capital loss at the end of five years if there is no inflation.
This makes sense if you accept as reasonable the current depressed level of interest rates. Those rates have been driven down by the Federal Reserve as it seeks to stimulate the economy and prevent deflation. A search for safety by investors has also helped, as has China's need to buy and invest dollars to keep the renminbi from appreciating too much.
So the United States borrows at amazingly low rates. Some other countries, among them Germany and Britain, get similar bargains. But Greece, which averted default earlier this year, is still viewed as scary, and its 10-year bonds have double-digit returns.
When inflation was rampant, there was talk of making the dollar worthless. In a certain sense, that is what has happened now. It is not worthless as a currency to buy things, but it has little value for an investor seeking a safe return on money that is being saved for retirement or a child's education. The yield on a one-year Treasury bill is now under a quarter of 1 percent.
Investors who need to earn money but crave the perceived safety of fixed income are being forced to lock up their money for years. This week, Goldman Sachs borrowed $1.3 billion from retail investors by selling notes that will mature in 50 years. The notes pay 6.125 percent, and will trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
The deal seems remarkable for many reasons. It was little more than two years ago that we learned that a large Wall Street firm can go broke and leave small investors hung out to dry, but now investors desperate for yield are throwing money at Goldman, which set out to borrow $250 million but found lenders eager.
It is a cliche that the most important assets of an investment bank go home every night, but investors are willing to lend money for 50 years. Few if any people working for Goldman now will still be with the firm then; it is quite possible that the chief executive in 2060 has yet to be born.
Imagine, for a moment, that someone guessed in 1960 which Wall Street firm would be prospering in 2010. He or she might have gotten it right, but a lot of wrong guesses would have seemed equally reasonable.
Finally, Goldman has been widely criticized for its actions leading up to the financial crisis, and it paid $550 million to settle fraud charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the issuance of collateralized debt obligations based on mortgage securities. But the government has made it possible for Goldman to borrow on extremely favorable terms.
''It is a gift to the banking system,'' said Mr. Cooperman, the former Goldman partner, of the prolonged period of superlow interest rates. ''The people who did not get us into trouble are being penalized by getting nothing on their savings.''
The Fed's moves are justified by the need to support an economy that is suffering through a very slow recovery. But monetary policy is not the only policy available to a government. ''The time has come for the government to turn to fiscal policy,'' Mr. Cooperman said.
But fiscal stimulus has gotten a bad name and is being denounced in the current campaign, as Republicans bemoan budget deficits and demand (vague) spending cuts. It seems unlikely a new Congress will do anything to help the economy. That leaves it to the Fed, and is bad news for those who rely on their savings for income.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leon Cooperman, who coined ''certificate of confiscation'' in the late 1970s, says it's truer now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ZELEVANSKY/REUTERS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: LEON G COOPERMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



797 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Divided We Fail

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Barring a huge upset, Republicans will take control of at least one house of Congress next week. How worried should we be by that prospect?
Not very, say some pundits. After all, the last time Republicans controlled Congress while a Democrat lived in the White House was the period from the beginning of 1995 to the end of 2000. And people remember that era as a good time, a time of rapid job creation and responsible budgets. Can we hope for a similar experience now?
No, we can't. This is going to be terrible. In fact, future historians will probably look back at the 2010 election as a catastrophe for America, one that condemned the nation to years of political chaos and economic weakness. 
Start with the politics.
In the late-1990s, Republicans and Democrats were able to work together on some issues. President Obama seems to believe that the same thing can happen again today. In a recent interview with National Journal, he sounded a conciliatory note, saying that Democrats need to have an ''appropriate sense of humility,'' and that he would ''spend more time building consensus.'' Good luck with that.
After all, that era of partial cooperation in the 1990s came only after Republicans had tried all-out confrontation, actually shutting down the federal government in an effort to force President Bill Clinton to give in to their demands for big cuts in Medicare.
Now, the government shutdown ended up hurting Republicans politically, and some observers seem to assume that memories of that experience will deter the G.O.P. from being too confrontational this time around. But the lesson current Republicans seem to have drawn from 1995 isn't that they were too confrontational, it's that they weren't confrontational enough.
Another recent interview by National Journal, this one with Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, has received a lot of attention thanks to a headline-grabbing quote: ''The single most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president.''
If you read the full interview, what Mr. McConnell was saying was that, in 1995, Republicans erred by focusing too much on their policy agenda and not enough on destroying the president: ''We suffered from some degree of hubris and acted as if the president was irrelevant and we would roll over him. By the summer of 1995, he was already on the way to being re-elected, and we were hanging on for our lives.'' So this time around, he implied, they'll stay focused on bringing down Mr. Obama.
True, Mr. McConnell did say that he might be willing to work with Mr. Obama in certain circumstances -- namely, if he's willing to do a ''Clintonian back flip,'' taking positions that would find more support among Republicans than in his own party. Of course, this would actually hurt Mr. Obama's chances of re-election -- but that's the point.
We might add that should any Republicans in Congress find themselves considering the possibility of acting in a statesmanlike, bipartisan manner, they'll surely reconsider after looking over their shoulder at the Tea Party-types, who will jump on them if they show any signs of being reasonable. The role of the Tea Party is one reason smart observers expect another government shutdown, probably as early as next spring.
Beyond the politics, the crucial difference between the 1990s and now is the state of the economy.
When Republicans took control of Congress in 1994, the U.S. economy had strong fundamentals. Household debt was much lower than it is today. Business investment was surging, in large part thanks to the new opportunities created by information technology -- opportunities that were much broader than the follies of the dot-com bubble.
In this favorable environment, economic management was mainly a matter of putting the brakes on the boom, so as to keep the economy from overheating and head off potential inflation. And this was a job the Federal Reserve could do on its own by raising interest rates, without any help from Congress.
Today's situation is completely different. The economy, weighed down by the debt that households ran up during the Bush-era bubble, is in dire straits; deflation, not inflation, is the clear and present danger. And it's not at all clear that the Fed has the tools to head off this danger. Right now we very much need active policies on the part of the federal government to get us out of our economic trap.
But we won't get those policies if Republicans control the House. In fact, if they get their way, we'll get the worst of both worlds: They'll refuse to do anything to boost the economy now, claiming to be worried about the deficit, while simultaneously increasing long-run deficits with irresponsible tax cuts -- cuts they have already announced won't have to be offset with spending cuts.
So if the elections go as expected next week, here's my advice: Be afraid. Be very afraid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HISTORY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (74%); JOB CREATION (71%); MEDICARE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



798 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Where's the Game?

 BODY:
More than three million cable subscribers in the New York City area couldn't watch the first game of the World Series on Wednesday night. That's because of the continuing brawl between Cablevision Systems and the Fox networks over who should get a bigger share of subscribers' fees. As of our deadline Thursday, the blackout was still going on. 
This isn't just a problem for die-hard baseball (or ''Glee'') fans in New York. Millions of subscribers around the country can expect a similar fight between the News Corporation, which owns Fox, and the Dish Network, a satellite service, when their agreement expires on Sunday. Earlier this year, the Walt Disney Company cut ABC's signal to Cablevision for 21 hours, including 14 minutes of the Academy Awards, until they agreed on a price.
All of this underscores the sweeping changes in the economics of TV. When retransmission arrangements were first made 20 years ago, the balance of power was roughly equal: broadcasters had unique content and cable operators had market monopolies. While broadcasters did not charge for their signal, cable systems agreed to pay for new cable channels.
Satellite television, Verizon FiOS and cable rivals have tilted the balance toward broadcasters. With ad revenue dropping, they want to get paid well for broadcast shows. There isn't much regulators can do. The law says the Federal Communications Commission must ensure companies negotiate in ''good faith.'' That doesn't mean they can't deadlock over price.
Senator John Kerry has proposed a bill to try to head off future blackouts. If two parties reached an impasse, regulators would evaluate the final offers and, if both were deemed to be in good faith, suggest arbitration. If either party refused, the broadcaster could still pull the plug. But both companies would have to publicly disclose the main parameters of their offers -- allowing customers to better decide who is asking for too much.
Washington must not put a thumb on the scale. The fact that broadcasters also use the public airwaves justifies intervention to bring transparency to the process. Meanwhile, Fox and Cablevision should cut a deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (53%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); DISH NETWORK CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); DISH (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



799 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: The Next Two Years

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
President Obama is likely to suffer a pummeling defeat on Tuesday. But the road map for his recovery is pretty straightforward.
First, the president is going to have to win back independents. Liberals are now criticizing him for being too timid. But the fact is that Obama will win 99.9 percent of the liberal vote in 2012, and in a presidential year, liberal turnout will surely be high. On the other hand, he cannot survive the defection of the independents. In 2008, independent voters preferred Democrats by 8 percentage points. Now they prefer Republicans by 20 points, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. Unless Obama wins back these moderate, suburban indies, there will be a Republican president in 2013.
Second, Obama needs to redefine his identity. Bill Clinton gave himself a New Democrat label. Obama has never categorized himself so clearly. This ambiguity was useful in 2008 when people could project whatever they wanted onto him. But it has been harmful since. Obama came to be defined by his emergency responses to the fiscal crisis -- by the things he had to do, not by the things he wanted to do. Then he got defined as an orthodox, big government liberal who lacks deep roots in American culture. 
Over the next two years, Obama will have to show that he is a traditionalist on social matters and a center-left pragmatist on political ones. Culturally, he will have to demonstrate that even though he comes from an unusual background, he is a fervent believer in the old-fashioned bourgeois virtues: order, self-discipline, punctuality and personal responsibility. Politically, he will have to demonstrate that he is data-driven -- that even though he has more faith in government than most Americans, he will relentlessly oppose programs when the evidence shows they don't work.
Third, Obama will need to respond to the nation's fear of decline. The current sour mood is not just caused by high unemployment. It emerges from the fear that America's best days are behind it. The public's real anxiety is about values, not economics: the gnawing sense that Americans have become debt-addicted and self-indulgent; the sense that government undermines individual responsibility; the observation that people who work hard get shafted while people who play influence games get the gravy. Obama will have to propose policies that re-establish the link between effort and reward.
Fourth, Obama has to build an institutional structure to support a more moderate approach. Presidents come into office thinking that they will be able to go ahead and enact policies. Then they realize that they can only succeed if there is a vast phalanx of institutions laboring alongside them.
Liberals already have institutions. To be a center-left leader, Obama will have to mobilize independent institutions as well. These don't exist in Washington, but they do around the nation. Civic organizations, local business groups and municipal leagues run from Orlando to Kansas City to Seattle. These groups are filled with local leaders who lobby for balanced budgets, infrastructure plans and other worthy causes. If Obama can mobilize these groups, he would not only build coalitions, but he would help heal the venomous rift between the White House and business, which is a cancer on his presidency.
Over the next few months, the Republicans will have their time in the sun. On Tuesday, I'll offer some thoughts on how they can seize the moment. But if Obama is to rebound, he is going to have to suppress his natural competitive instincts. If he gets caught up in the Beltway fight club, the Republicans will emerge as the party of limited government and he'll emerge as the spokesman for big government -- surely a losing proposition.
Instead, he will have to go out and do his own thing. That means every day reinforcing the following narrative: the Republicans are only half right. They want to cut things; I want to cut but also replace things. They want to slash government; I want to restructure it. They want destruction; I want renovation.
Companies like Ford cut wasteful spending while doubling down on productive investment. That's exactly what the nation has to do over all. There have to be cuts, the president could say, in unaffordable pension commitments, in biofuel subsidies and useless tax breaks. But there also have to be investments in things that will produce a vibrant economy for our children: a simpler tax system with lower rates on investment; more scientific research; a giant effort to improve Hispanic graduation rates; medical courts to rationalize the malpractice system and so on. Instead of being disjointed, as he has been, the president will have to reinforce this turnaround story day after day.
The problem is not that America lacks resources. The problem is that they are misallocated. If Obama can establish credibility as someone who can cut and replace, Election Day 2012 will be rosier for him than Election Day 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STATISTICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



800 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke's Reluctance to Speak Out Rankles Some

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve is all but certain next week to begin a multibillion-dollar effort to coax the recovery along, but privately, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman, worries that more is needed to turn the sluggish economy around and revive employment.
He believes that without the Obama administration's $787 billion stimulus program, the nation would have been worse off, and that Congress needs to continue to prop up the economy in the short run. He agrees that fiscal measures to support the recovery would probably make the Fed's unconventional monetary policy more potent.
But Mr. Bernanke has been reluctant to prominently voice those views, which were gleaned from testimony, speeches and interviews with people close to him over the last several months. His predecessor, Alan Greenspan, did not display such hesitation, advocating for the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003.
Mr. Bernanke is uncomfortable in that role, which he believes to be outside his purview, even -- or especially -- in an election season dominated by economic anxiety. He has not ruled out weighing in when a bipartisan budget commission named by President Obama delivers its report in December, but it seems unlikely that he will intervene in the battle over the Bush tax cuts. 
The hesitance of Mr. Bernanke, who was President George W. Bush's chief economic adviser for six months before becoming Fed chairman in 2006, has sharply divided economists.
Some say he could guide the debate, and give a lift to the White House, by speaking out against the aggressive budget-cutting proposed by many Republican candidates, particularly those backed by the Tea Party movement.
Others assert that Mr. Bernanke needs to be more outspoken in warning of the dangers posed by the country's unsustainable debt burden. Still others say the Fed should stay out of the way, given its failure to prevent the financial crisis and the longest recession since the 1930s.
What is clear is that Mr. Bernanke is intent on not embroiling the Fed in a partisan brawl, and that he believes the central bank should weigh in on fiscal policy in only the broadest terms -- even if past chairmen like Marriner S. Eccles in the 1930s, Arthur F. Burns in the '70s and Paul A. Volcker in the '70s and '80s at times broke that mold.
''The chairman's relative reticence is unusual, but it reflects the difficult circumstances in which the Fed now operates,'' said Iwan W. Morgan, a University of London historian who studies American fiscal policy. ''Its credibility, which was so high in the Volcker and early Greenspan years owing to its success in constraining inflation, is now at its lowest ebb since the inflationary 1970s.''
Mark W. Olson, who served with Mr. Bernanke on the Fed's board of governors and is now co-chairman of Treliant Risk Advisors in Washington, acknowledged that ''fiscal policy decisions could either exacerbate or negate monetary policy decisions,'' but said that Mr. Bernanke wanted to avoid the ''oracle trap'' into which Mr. Greenspan sometimes fell.
Mr. Greenspan's reputation as a sage, developed over 18 years as chairman, has lost its luster, owing not only to his aversion to regulation and his decision to keep interest rates low after the 2001 recession, but also to his support for the tax cuts, which he has since renounced, saying the cuts should be allowed to expire.
''For a long time, Alan Greenspan's pronouncements were viewed in Congress and elsewhere as if orchestrated on Mount Sinai, and there seems a consensus now is that this was a mistake,'' said Bernard Shull of Hunter College in New York.
As a scholar of the Depression, Mr. Bernanke chastised Japan for being too timid in combating deflation and advocated overwhelming force as a response to financial crises -- advice he has followed at the Fed.
But Mr. Bernanke, who was confirmed to a second term in January by an uncomfortably narrow margin, has been adroit in avoiding fiscal controversy.
At a pair of Congressional hearings in September, for example, he gave each party a message it wanted to hear. He told Democrats that the government should maintain short-term fiscal support for the recovery. He assured Republicans of the need to rein in deficits and stabilize debt levels. And when pressed, he declined to be precise.
''I'm reluctant to take positions on specific tax and spending measures,'' he told Representative Spencer T. Bachus of Alabama, the top Republican on the House committee that oversees the Fed. ''I'm sure you can understand my position on that.''
However, Mr. Bernanke has spoken of the budgetary challenges posed by an aging population. And he came the closest he has in a while to advocating fiscal measures in an Oct. 4 speech in Providence, R.I., when he suggested that the government adopt fiscal rules -- in essence surrendering some of Congress's and the president's discretion.
Congress already uses so-called pay-go rules, which require that spending increases or tax cuts be offset within a 10-year horizon, but there are significant exemptions. Moreover, the rules are intended only to prevent projected deficits from getting worse and do not require Congress ''to reduce the ever-increasing deficits that are already built into current law,'' Mr. Bernanke noted.
Of the dozen economists interviewed for this article, those who favored additional stimulus tended to want Mr. Bernanke to speak out.
''Further short-run fiscal expansion paired with credible measures to deal with longer-term deficits would be a good idea,'' said Alan J. Auerbach, a professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley. ''The political difficulty of accomplishing this puts pressure not only on the Fed but also on our trade policy, where we are forced to lean more heavily on China.''
William G. Gale, of the Brookings Institution, said additional federal spending would be more effective than new debt purchases by the Fed -- a strategy known as quantitative easing -- and that Mr. Bernanke should at least explain the connection between the two.
''By pursuing quantitative easing, he is committing to monetary expansion,'' Mr. Gale said. ''He has the right to say that he has made the commitment, and now it is time for Congress to make a similar commitment.''
Other economists say the Fed has already gotten dangerously close to the Treasury Department, given their collaboration under Mr. Bush in bailing out Wall Street, and in propping up the housing market.
''The distinction and separation of monetary and fiscal policy has almost disappeared,'' said Alberto F. Alesina, an economics professor at Harvard. ''This is, I believe, dangerous.''
Another Harvard professor, Martin S. Feldstein, who like Mr. Bernanke is a former chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said, ''There have been times when the Fed has in effect said: If fiscal policy is tightened, the Fed will be able to lower interest rates. That does not apply now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some say the White House would get a lift if Ben Bernanke were more outspoken. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman. By not speaking out publicly, he may be trying to avoid being pulled into the partisan fray. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TAX LAW (76%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); HISTORY (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

 
