

1 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 1, 1999

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	6	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) Seven years after his escape, the fiendish psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	3	GRANNY DAN, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $19.95.) A woman learns the secrets of her grandmother's past in czarist Russia.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	5	7	HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $17.95.) A British boy finds trouble when he returns to a witchcraft school.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	32	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $16.95.) A British boy finds his fortune attending a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	3	11	WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Little, Brown, $24.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teen-age girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	4	5	MOTHER OF PEARL, by Melinda Haynes. (Hyperion, $23.95.) The lives of a 28-year-old black man and a 15-year-old white girl converge in Petal, Miss., in the 1950's.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	10	24	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a young woman who works as a missionary in the jungles of Brazil are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	15	2	CARNAL INNOCENCE, by Nora Roberts. (Bantam, $19.95.) A woman visiting Innocence, Miss., becomes enamored of a man suspected of being a serial killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	11	15	THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $16.95.) When a young girl gets lost in the woods, she is saved by her spiritual association with a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	14	7	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Viking, $23.95.) The progress of a young New York woman through the terrain of sex and love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	16	2	 *TRUE AT FIRST LIGHT, by Ernest Hemingway. (Scribner, $26.) Stalking game on an African safari: a greatly trimmed version of a previously unpublished novel.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	12	2	MCNALLY'S DILEMMA, by Lawrence Sanders. (Putnam, $24.95.) Archy McNally investigates the death of a Florida playboy who lived a tangled life.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	8	11	 *STAR WARS: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace, by Terry Brooks. (Lucas/Ballantine, $25.) How it all began for Anakin Skywalker (a k a Darth Vader).		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	9	4	LAKE NEWS, by Barbara Delinsky. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) To escape a scandal in the big city, a talented singer flees to her seemingly idyllic hometown.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		12	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A woman struggles to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	5	SHADOW, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) How the Watergate scandal affected the Administrations of Richard Nixon's five successors.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	93	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	33	THE GREATEST GENERATION, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of men and women who came of age during the Depression and World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4		1	SEE JANE WIN, by Sylvia Rimm with Sara Rimm-Kaufman and Ilonna Rimm. (Crown, $25.) The experiences of 1,000 girls as they became successful women in today's society.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	7	28	THE ART OF HAPPINESS, by the Dalai Lama and Howard C. Cutler. (Riverhead, $22.95.) What Buddhism and common sense tell us about everyday problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	4	 *THE FIRST WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Knopf, $35.) A military historian recounts the 1914-18 conflict from the viewpoint of the strategists and the men in the trenches.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	6	8	 *ENCORE PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Knopf, $23.) The author of "A Year in Provence" recounts further adventures in the south of France.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	4	8	I AIN'T GOT TIME TO BLEED, by Jesse Ventura. (Villard, $19.95.) Reflections on politics, pro wrestling and other subjects by the Governor of Minnesota.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	8	15	BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $25.) An American writer remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	10	17	 *YESTERDAY, I CRIED, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A counselor describes how she turned painful experiences into feelings of hope.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	9	35	THE CENTURY, by Peter Jennings and Todd Brewster. (Doubleday, $60.) An account of the 20th century, complete with photographs and first-person narratives.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12		12	 *THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	13	120	 *CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD: Book 1, by Neale Donald Walsch. (Putnam, $19.95.) The author addresses questions of good and evil, guilt and sin.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	17	2	 *THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		15	 *THE MAJORS, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.) A sportswriter reports on the 1998 Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and P.G.A. golf tournaments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	10	SUZANNE SOMERS' GET SKINNY ON FABULOUS FOOD, by Suzanne Somers. (Crown, $24.) A diet regimen to help people lose weight and remain healthy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2		4	REAL AGE, by Michael F. Roizen with Elizabeth Anne Stephenson. (Cliff Street/HarperCollins, $25.) A physician's program for delaying the aging process. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	1	13	SOMETHING MORE, by Sarah Ban Breathnach. (Warner, $20.) Advice for women about finding their "authentic self" and making the most of it. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4		5	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $25.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending July 17, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
THE BOOK OF HAPPINESS, by Nina Berberova. (New Directions, $23.95.) Set in the years surrounding the Russian Revolution, this novel of passionate candor allows its characters to love without irony and to speak ingenuously about what they really want (including happiness).
 
THE BROKEN ESTATE: Essays on Literature and Belief, by James Wood. (Random House, $24.) A combative, polemical critic examines the transition from religious belief to literary belief in the 19th century and its sequels down to our time.
 
THE COLONY OF UNREQUITED DREAMS, by Wayne Johnston. (Doubleday, $24.95.) An eloquent biographical anti-epic novel whose protagonist, the nebbishy but effectual Joseph Smallwood, betrays its real hero, the great, mysterious island of Newfoundland, into incorporation with Canada.
 
THE DISTANCE TO THE MOON: A Road Trip Into the American Dream, by James Morgan. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author sets out to see the U.S.A. in his Porsche in a cross-country travelogue that explores the enduring relationship between man and his real best friend, the automobile.
 
IN SEPTEMBER, THE LIGHT CHANGES: Stories, by Andrew Holleran. (Hyperion, $23.95.) Finely made stories, sharply awake to the idioms, cadences and concerns of gay life in the late 20th century, obsessionally aware of the passing of friends, health and youth.
 
JEM (AND SAM), by Ferdinand Mount. (Carroll & Graf, $25.95.) A rollicking novel of the Restoration, told from the viewpoint of one Jeremiah Mount (in real life a drinking buddy of Samuel Pepys and a possible progenitor of the author), who, though gripped by a professional envy that would stagger Salieri, comes at last to find saving grace in failure.
 
SAINT AUGUSTINE, by Garry Wills. (Lipper/ Viking, $19.95.) An informed rendering of the life and thought of the small-town African (A.D. 354-430) who became the most durable of theologians; usefully translated from the Churchly (for "Confessions," read "Testimony").
 
STILL WATERS IN NIGER, by Kathleen Hill. (Triquarterly/Northwestern University, $24.95.) Memory and anxiety are intertwined in a lyrical autobiographical novel, set in West Africa, that illuminates the losses and lapses of motherhood.
 
WALKER EVANS, by James R. Mellow. (Basic Books, $40.) An evocative biography, posthumously published, that captures in Evans a private heartlessness belying the humanity of his photographs.
 
WHO DO YOU LOVE: Stories, by Jean Thompson. (Harcourt Brace, $23.) Emotional needs are rarely stated and more rarely met (romance and family don't help) in these quiet, devastating, all-downhill-from-here short stories. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (87%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WOMEN (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); HOMICIDE (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); BASEBALL (65%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (72%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%); STEPHEN KING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



2 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Where Are the Beret Factories of Yesteryear?

BYLINE: By Alan Riding; Alan Riding is the European cultural correspondent of The Times, based in Paris.

 BODY:

FRANCE ON THE BRINK
 By Jonathan Fenby.
 449 pp. New York:
 Arcade Publishing. $27.95. 
 It has become commonplace to say that France is in trouble. Indeed, the French are the first to say so. They complain about high unemployment, mounting insecurity, corruption in public life, a political elite that has lost touch with the people, a state that is no longer guide and protector. In brief, they complain that they were promised something better. But that is the French talking. When Britons and Americans point to their troubles, the French are convinced they hear the sound of gloating.
Well, yes. Tired of being lectured on France's intellectual, cultural and moral superiority to the "Anglo-Saxons," some officials in London and Washington may well be deriving pleasure from France's comeuppance. But, in truth, the Anglo-Saxon view of France is more complicated. France enjoys a privileged place in the imagination of educated Britons and Americans precisely because it is so stubbornly different. They may argue that France must modernize its economy and political system, but they also mourn the passing of the old France; they too fear that a new France will be less French.
Jonathan Fenby speaks for this point of view. A veteran British journalist who married into a French family and began reporting from France in the mid-1960's, he clearly loves France. But in "France on the Brink," a forceful piece of reporting sprinkled with personal memories, he also sounds an alarm bell. Over the past three decades, he has seen France change a great deal -- and mainly for the worse. He wants to be optimistic, but he perceives "a nation at risk." France can remain truly special, he believes, only if it shows daring.
One reason France is such an appealing target for snipers is, of course, the high standard by which it judges itself and asks to be judged. That its traditional self-esteem is partly a result of historical amnesia and political mythmaking does not detract from the fact that it has a blessed geography, a remarkable history, rich cultural monuments and an enviable art de vivre. After the humiliation of World War II, it also developed a prosperous economy, created a vast welfare state, asserted its independence from Washington and joined Germany in building a new Europe.
But, as Fenby points out in his first chapter, "Something Special," the French have become obsessed with l'exception francaise. "France occupies an exclusive place in the world, and could accept nothing less," he writes. "It is, its President declares, a beacon for the human race. The nation and its people may be loved or hated, but they can never be ignored." Among a veritable potpourri of facts, anecdotes and eccentricities that prove the point, Fenby offers one delightful illustration of French scorn for Anglo-Saxon pragmatism. "It will work in practice, yes," a French diplomat is said to have remarked. "But will it work
in theory?"
This is a chapter that any newcomer to France is well advised to memorize: it is food for many a lively dinner table conversation. Indeed, the entire book serves as a valuable introduction to contemporary France. Fenby stops and looks at every corner of French society, contrasting how it was with what it has become; with an occasional glance back, he also tracks the swings of French politics since Charles de Gaulle founded the Fifth Republic in 1959. One theme runs through his story: "The conservative strain in French life has always been far stronger than the revolutionary images suggest."
Change has come, but it has rarely been welcomed. In a chapter called "Vanishing Madeleines," Fenby notes that the classic images of France -- beret, baguette, dark cigarettes, corner cafe, the accordion, garlic and the like -- have all lost ground in daily life: only three beret factories survive, most baguettes are made with frozen preconstituted dough, foreign cigarette brands account for almost half of total sales, cafes are closing at an alarming rate, only Romanian Gypsies now seem to play accordions and even garlic consumption is falling.
Fast food is by now well entrenched and, worse, embraced by many French as a useful short cut in rushed urban schedules. Business lunches and summer vacations are shrinking. French men may still have wandering eyes, but they have less time for mistresses. The convenience -- and lower prices -- of supermarkets have put many shopkeepers out of business in cities and, even more alarmingly, in villages, which are dying across France (albeit occasionally revived in a different form as summer havens for Parisians and northern Europeans).
The countryside, after all, is the repository of French nostalgia. Until 1945, 40 percent of France's population was still rural. Thus, rare is the city dweller who does not have a parent or grandparent born in some distant pays. Even now, Fenby notes, "French townspeople have more country homes than any other Europeans." And it is the countryside that provides the food and wines that remain so central to France's image of itself. "Rural France," Fenby says, "is a state of mind." Yet the reality is painful. As agriculture has modernized, small farms have closed and villages have been abandoned. Returning one August to a village that had known better times, Fenby recalls: "That used to be the busiest time of the year. But now all was silence. The square was deserted."
The pace quickens, though, when the author turns to the grim suburbs, or banlieues, of major cities, suburbs that have been transformed over the past 25 years by Arab and African immigration. The first generation of immigrants consisted in the main of solitary men with jobs. But by the time their wives and families joined them, jobs were harder to find. And now their children are rapidly forming an underclass living in project housing, unemployed, surrounded by drugs and violence. Fenby recounts familiar stories of gang warfare, race riots and ritual car burnings, but he also visits several banlieues and is left alarmed by the anger and despair he encounters. And, he notes, "Each banlieue riot involving young immigrants sends more votes to the far right."
When it comes to pointing fingers, however, Fenby does not hesitate. Whether it is France's failure to integrate immigrants and the commensurate rise of Jean-Marie Le Pen's far-right National Front, whether it is the growth of unemployment to a constant 11 percent of the work force, whether it is the spate of corruption scandals in public life, he sees the country's political elite as ultimately responsible. Today a few thousand politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen, many of them graduates of the exclusive ecole Nationale d'Administration, run France and, in Fenby's view, all too often they run it for themselves. And the French are beginning to notice.
NARROWING his target, Fenby then looks at how three men exercised the monarchical powers of the French presidency over the past 25 years. He is not impressed. But if he portrays Valery Giscard d'Estaing (1974-81) as a vainglorious snob and Jacques Chirac (1995 to the present) as something of a buffoon, he believes Fran-->ois Mitterrand (1981-95) was positively dangerous -- devious and unprincipled. "In opposition, his amorality could be excused as necessary in the pursuit of power," Fenby writes. "But once he had reached his summit, it got even worse. He simply did not seem to care about any real values."
Given what the future keeps bringing them, the French are understandably fearful of still more future. However, given their continued expectation that the state solve their problems, Fenby sees no alternative to looking again to the elite to find answers. He points the way: it must lead a nonviolent revolution, "which embraces the modern world while preserving the best of the past." He even harbors some hope that the current "cohabitation" between the conservative Chirac and his Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, will produce "a different kind of politics, which would be much less ideological, less a prisoner of the state, more open-minded -- and, dare one hope, less personalized." Yet he does not sound too sure. He demonstrates that he cares passionately for France, but he ends his book with France still "on the brink."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FRANCE ON THE BRINK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); WORLD WAR II (65%); HISTORIC SITES (61%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; FENBY, JONATHAN JONATHAN FENBY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



3 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 46; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3531 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid of China?

BYLINE: By Patrick E. Tyler; Patrick E. Tyler, former Beijing bureau chief for The Times, is the author of "A Great Wall: Six Presidents and China," to be published in September.

 BODY:
On the night of Feb. 19, 1997, I was detained by a squad of Chinese policemen in a small town on China's border with Kazakhstan, which is about as far away as you can get from Beijing and still be in the country. The region is hauntingly beautiful, framed on the north and south by the snowy Mountains of Heaven, which overlook the arid plain where Chinese and Russian forces clashed so ferociously in 1969 that President Nixon thought nuclear war was going to break out between the two Communist giants.
I had flown to Kazakhstan in order to cross over the border into China and to return to Beijing via a long overland route that would take me through Yining, a remote city where Chinese Muslims had rioted during the holy month of Ramadan. Unfortunately, the Chinese had other plans for my trip. When the creaky bus I was in rolled across the no-man's land and up to the checkpoint on the Chinese side, I was asked to step out and show my papers. As soon as the guards saw my passport they set up a commotion, calling out, "Jizhe!" ("journalist"), as if I were an invader. They conducted a four-hour search of my luggage and, by the time the evening was over, I was shown to a hotel room whose door was then secured with a tractor chain and padlock. 
 Thus ensconced as a guest of the local Public Security Bureau, I dozed off, only to be awakened by the phone sometime after midnight. In a feat bordering on the miraculous, a colleague had managed to get a circuit through to tell me that China's state news agency had just reported the death of Deng Xiaoping.
In a panic at being so far away from the story I had been waiting to cover for five years, I persuaded a guard to open the door a crack. When he did, I pushed by him and ran into the night. Huffing along the Chinese highway under the weight of my bags, I gestured wildly at each set of headlights that pierced the blackness until I finally hitched a ride to Urumqi -- eight hours across the desert -- and caught the last plane heading east that afternoon.
Flying over the whole of China on the day that the Deng era ended, I was overcome with curiosity about the Chinese with whom I was traveling, and so I walked the aisles for the next two hours, introducing myself in imperfect Chinese and asking my fellow passengers their thoughts about the future. The answers I received reinforced for me not only how profoundly pragmatic the Chinese are, but also how misguided American perceptions about China have traditionally been -- and continue to be.
The Chinese on board -- merchants, traders and some Communist Party members -- were not seething with animosity toward the United States; they weren't even particularly suspicious of America. Instead, they were worried that Deng's death would weaken the Communist Party's commitment to a "socialist market economy," that it would undermine the successful economic revolution that the Chinese leader had begun nearly two decades earlier. These people were fearful that Deng's dictum, "To get rich is glorious," might be upended and that China would lapse back into the chaotic politics that characterized the Mao era.
How different these sentiments were from American perceptions at the time. For Americans, Deng was connected with the bloodshed at Tiananmen Square. Though the Chinese leader had charmed Americans during his 1979 state visit -- wearing a 10-gallon hat at a Texas rodeo and coming across as an impish Yoda -- that image was erased in a single bloody night. The June 1989 massacre, in which unarmed students were gunned down by Chinese troops, instantly created a new and seemingly indelible picture of China in the United States -- that of the repressive state.
The summer of 1999 seems in many ways to be a repeat of the summer of Deng's death, when American perceptions of China and Chinese perceptions of their own predicament were two huge Titanics passing in the night. In May Americans were swamped by images of riotous Chinese youths, their faces contorted by anger, throwing rocks and other projectiles at the American Embassy in Beijing in retaliation for NATO's mistaken bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade.
Then, a few weeks ago, Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, reopened the dangerous question of Taiwanese sovereignty -- is Taiwan part of China or not? In an interview, the Taiwanese leader appeared to proclaim that the doctrine of "One China" was dead as far as he was concerned. Beijing then answered with harsh language, giving rise to fears that the Chinese might be on the verge of engaging in the kind of ballistic-missile diplomacy that prompted President Clinton to dispatch two aircraft carriers to the region in 1996.
This was also the summer of the Cox committee report, the hasty product of an ideologically supercharged select committee of the House of Representatives led by Christopher Cox, Republican of California. The committee concluded that over a 20-year period, Chinese spies had stolen secrets for missiles, military weaponry and nuclear warheads from American weapons labs. The Chinese bounty included design elements for the neutron bomb and the W-88, a hydrogen bomb so compact that eight of them can be loaded into the nose cone of a submarine-launched Trident II missile.
The 700-page Cox committee report portrayed the People's Republic of China as nothing less than a voracious, dangerous and fully equipped military rival of the United States. "The P. R.C. will exploit elements of the stolen design information" to build strategic weapons that "will be able to strike the United States," the report stated. The report also asserted that "a modernized P. R.C. strategic nuclear-ballistic-missile force would pose a credible, direct threat against the United States."
That these fears are aroused so effortlessly is not surprising. Ever since the cry of "Who lost China?" ricocheted across our political landscape in 1949, a number of Americans have remained deeply suspicious of the People's Republic. Throughout the Korean War, the cold war and Vietnam, politicians turned this fear to their strategic advantage whenever they could. Even Richard Nixon, who staged the opening to China in 1972, made it an issue in the 1968 Presidential campaign, comparing China's revolutionaries to the "more explosive ghetto elements in our country."
Playing the China card has worked in our time too. Bill Clinton scored points in 1992 when he accused George Bush of "coddling dictators from Baghdad to Beijing." And China shows every sign of figuring prominently in the 2000 campaign. Armed with the Cox report, Republicans have already begun to chastise Democrats for courting Communist fund-raisers and indulging Chinese espionage at the nation's weapons labs.
There's just one problem: 1.3 billion Chinese have no interest in threatening America or in kicking U.S. forces out of Asia or in becoming an imperial power to dominate the region. Certainly, the Chinese are fiercely patriotic. Every time a foreigner says that Tibet ought to be an independent nation, or Taiwan should be allowed to declare a separate state, it incites an energetic response, for the Chinese see themselves as victims of ceaseless foreign invasion since the Opium Wars 150 years ago.
Nevertheless, if any generalization is to be made about 1.3 billion people, it would be that the Chinese want nothing more than to have a long period of peace and stability in which to develop their economy. The people I flew with that day in 1997, those I met and worked with during my five years in China, just want to get rich, as Deng exhorted them to do. That is why they are hustling, saving their money and investing as never before. And that is why it would be unthinkable for China's leaders to embark on an arms race with the United States. Prosperity at home and military expansionism abroad are fundamentally incompatible in China today.
Nowhere is this clearer than in the Yangtze River Valley, where the Chinese are building the largest hydroelectric structure in the world: the Three Gorges Dam. When completed, the controversial dam will provide nearly 10 percent of China's electrical output. Unfortunately, no one seems to know where China will get the financing to finish the project, and this is a source of great unease for the country's leaders.
China's growth depends on power -- power to run the factories that are booming in southern China, power to build new factories there and across the country. Indeed, just to keep pace with growth, China must construct approximately a dozen 1,000-megawatt power stations every year. (In America, one or two of these large stations is added a year -- at the most.)
The need for energy is not just economic -- it's demographic. In the next 30 years China's population is expected to grow by 400 million, bringing the total to 1.6 billion. In short, the Chinese need the dam and other infrastructure investments simply to stay afloat. Mindful of their Soviet counterparts, whose system collapsed because its leaders chose to invest in swords rather than plowshares, China's leaders understand that to embark on a military build-up would be nothing short of folly.
Economic imperatives are not the only reason China poses a limited threat to the United States. Strong language aside, attacking America has never been a centerpiece of Chinese doctrine.
I learned this firsthand from Hua Di, a Chinese rocket scientist who worked on the current generation of Chinese ICBM's. Hua Di came to the United States in 1989 for a conference and after the Tiananmen massacre decided to stay, because he had previously spoken out in favor of the pro-democracy movement. He is now in detention in China, accused of sharing information with Americans about China's weapons programs.
I first met Hua Di at Stanford in 1994. Back then, we would spend hours over bowls of rice in Bay Area Chinese restaurants, talking about politics, science and China's strategic objectives. Words burst out of Hua Di's mouth at great speed, and he once startled me by saying that Mao and his successors never gave much thought to selecting targets for China's nuclear missiles. The reason, he said, was that the missiles were purely retaliatory. According to Hua Di, all Mao cared about was that no nuclear strike on China would go unanswered. Whether the strike came from Russia, the United States or France, all Mao wanted was to be able to send a messenger by car, bicycle or horse to one of the caves or silos where China's ICBM's were hidden and to have that messenger whisper a single phrase to the missile commander -- The Chairman orders you to launch." The most China could hope for, Mao realized, would be one stinging shot back at its foe.
China's nuclear doctrine has certainly advanced since then, but with a no-first-use policy and adherence to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, China is not (nor has it ever been) the nuclear rogue that Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon once feared. China has never resorted to nuclear blackmail in its international relations; nor has it activated its nuclear forces in any military crisis.
Every year, a large gathering of specialists on the chinese military meets at a leafy resort to debate the intentions and capabilities of the Chinese military. Last year, the conclave took place at a venue more closely associated with the Middle East than with China: the Wye Plantation in Maryland. Gathered on the shores of the Chesapeake were experts from the intelligence, defense, diplomatic and academic communities, including John Culver, the C.I.A.'s top student of the People's Liberation Army, Michael D. Swaine of the Rand Corporation, Paul Godwin of the National Defense University and James R. Lilley, a former Ambassador to China.
The debate in Wye's plush conference rooms was contentious, but the consensus was clear: China is a backward military power that is gradually modernizing the portion of its military responsible for safeguarding its own backyard, including Tibet, Taiwan and whatever dominion China eventually negotiates for itself in the South China Sea.
Looking out over the next two decades, experts like Culver concede that China could seek to leapfrog its antiquated military technologies and develop modern weapons that would be more threatening to American interests and to U.S. forces in the Pacific. But today the evidence suggests that while China is working to master state-of-the-art technologies in its laboratories, it has little expertise and few resources to build the industrial base necessary to become a modern military power.
The Chinese Air Force is a case in point, with neither the factories nor the skilled work force to develop modern warplanes or keep them flying. For example, it was long rumored that China was on the verge of deploying a supersonic fighter: the F-10. But Chinese engineers could never get one to fly out of the barn. Eventually, in 1992, the air force gave up and purchased a few squadrons of Russian SU-27's at bargain-basement prices. In short, the B-2 Stealth bomber is not in China's future.
The Chinese Navy is in similar shape, hampered by an aging fleet and outmoded shipbuilding technology. After more than a decade of design and construction work, China did manage to send a prototype of its first strategic-ballistic-missile submarine to sea in the 1988. The project, however, has been a bust. Only one Xia-class "boomer" has been built, and the boat rarely leaves its pier -- and then only to venture into coastal waters, where its medium-range nuclear missiles could not come close to the United States (or even Guam). To make matters worse, the boat leaks radiation, further limiting the time its crew can be aboard.
John Culver, in remarks at the National Defense University, stressed that the Chinese Army still relies on an inventory of weapons "that, in most cases, has been deployed with the same units for up to 30 years." Most analysts believe it would take hundreds of billions of dollars over decades to modernize China's military. As Paul Godwin points out, "If you don't get on the technology train, it gets harder and harder to catch up."
To understand better the limits of the Chinese threat, I paid a visit to those whose voices have been largely drowned out by the Cox committee's thunderbolts and their reverberations in the news media: American weapons scientists and nuclear experts.
Over the course of the summer, nuclear laboratories at Los Alamos and Livermore have been portrayed as undisciplined nests of nave technicians whose pockets were not so much being picked as looted by clever Chinese spies posing as scholars and distinguished visitors. And so, in July, I ventured to Stanford to hear from a group organized by Wolfgang Panofsky of Stanford and Iain Johnston of Harvard.
I arrived a little late at Encina Hall, which flanks the bell tower at the center of campus. The room was packed, with people spilling into the hallway. Panofsky, a physicist and the former director of the Stanford Linear Accelerator, took his place at the front of the room. As a young man, Panofsky was in the B-29 that flew over the Trinity Test Site at 10,000 feet when the United States detonated its first atomic bomb. Though he advised Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy and Carter on nuclear weapons policy, Pief, as he is known, could be almost invisible in a crowded room -- but for his prominent scientific brow which juts like a promontory over his small frame. In a voice accented by his native German, Panofsky explained how he had read the entire Cox report and found it so full of false assumptions, unsubstantiated claims and errors that it could not be a useful reference for anyone studying the Chinese military, as he has been doing for decades.
Flipping through slide transparencies to illustrate his point, Panofsky described China as a small nuclear power, with fewer than 30 intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching the United States. In contrast, the President of the United States has at any time about 10,000 nuclear weapons under his command, about 6,000 of which could be programmed to strike China. Where the U.S. intelligence community has attributed gradual improvements in China's nuclear arsenal to the skill of Chinese physicists and to design information gleaned from open sources, European countries and espionage, including espionage in America, the Cox committee rounded all the corners to conclude that whatever China took, it took from us.
Even if that were the case, Panofsky said, it wouldn't matter. China, he argued, has not built or deployed many of the weapons it is accused of having stolen. Moreover, and perhaps most important, there is no silver bullet in the American arsenal that could be stolen by the Chinese that would ameliorate the chronic and fundamental weaknesses in its conventional and nuclear forces.
The greatest threat China poses to the United States has always been a distant one: an attack or naval blockade on Taiwan that would destabilize Asia and pull America into war. The threat is real, but it, too, has been exaggerated and misunderstood.
From 1945 to 1949, China fought a civil war that pitted Mao's peasant revolution against Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist Government, which was America's ally against Japan in World War II. When the generalissimo fled to Taiwan to avoid defeat, he took the Republic of China with him into exile, arrogating to himself -- with America's backing -- the role of legitimate ruler of all China. The key to stability in the region has been to sustain the illusion that all Chinese believe there is one China, but to take the definition no further. That was President Nixon's goal when he went to China in 1972, withdrew American forces from Taiwan and drafted the Shanghai Communique, which artfully managed to defer the unresolved Chinese civil war into the indefinite future.
The delicate balance in the region was preserved until 1995, when the Clinton Administration managed to call Taiwan's status into question. The flash point was the Administration's decision to allow Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, to visit the United States. Granting the Taiwanese leader a visa, especially before China's new President, Jiang Zemin, had visited the United States, surprised Beijing and triggered fears there that Washington was siding with Taiwan's independence movement. As a result, Chinese missiles began to fly across the Taiwan Strait. In response, the United States dispatched two aircraft carriers to the waters off Taiwan -- the first such display of American military power directed at deterring mainland China from invading the island in 40 years. Though the crisis quickly cooled down, the issue threatens to flare again.
Last month, Lee Teng-hui proclaimed that Taiwan was abandoning the one-China doctrine -- thus throwing down the gauntlet of Taiwanese separatism once again. To counterattack, China's leaders loosed a barrage of vilification against the Taiwanese leader; so far, they have not resorted to military demonstrations.
Americans should remember that neither Washington nor Beijing can predict or control the political changes on Taiwan, which now has a population of 21 million. China and the United States could stumble into a military conflict over the island if Taiwan declares its independence. Barring that unlikely situation, however, it is essential that the United States hang back in the region, especially if it wants to avoid repeating the mistakes of 1995. Mainland and Taiwan leaders are constantly talking to one another in private channels, channels from which the United States is excluded. Therefore, the public campaigns mounted by Beijing or Taipei often are attempts to gain leverage within these private negotiations.
As with the Arab-Israeli dispute, China and Taiwan both seek to manipulate American public opinion and Congressional action to their advantage. Americans should be aware of this ideological battleground -- and that it might be a mistake to take too seriously the strong words from both sides.
These are the real issues in U.S.-China relations. Conjuring nuclear threats where none really exist is a diversion from the more urgent American task of accommodating China's rise as a power in Asia, one that will have its own national interests, many of them congruent with the American interest in a stable and prosperous Asia.
In 1998, Bill Clinton told President Jiang Zemin that China's leaders were on the wrong side of history. President Clinton was right -- but it is also true that China itself, even with woefully imperfect leaders, is on an irreversible upswing. The sum of China's negatives in the last 20 years has never surpassed the positives that have taken place post-Mao: economic freedoms have expanded, but so, too, have personal and democratic ones. A hostile American policy toward China would surely undermine the constructive forces now at work in the People's Republic. That would be tragic. That such a policy would be based on faulty and perhaps politically motivated assumptions would be a travesty.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phantom menace: A show of strength at Tiananmen Square. Manpower notwithstanding, China poses little threat to the U.S. (Robyn Beck/Agence France-Presse); Gunboat diplomacy: China flexed its muscle in military exercises in the Taiwan Strait in 1996. (Xinhua/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RAMADAN (74%); RIOTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); RELIGION (69%); WRITERS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER. PATRICK E RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



4 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Land of the Free Market

 BODY:
The conservative dictum that urban sprawl is but the collective expression of the free market is more fiction than fact (Michael Pollan, July 11). Let us not forget that it was the Government, in an attempt to resuscitate a crippled economy in the 1930's, that deliberately jump-started America's taste for suburbia. The Government has historically promoted suburbia and its attendant necessities through programs that provide guaranteed loans and mortgages to home builders and home buyers and financing for highway construction over public transportation. It also provides public infrastructure to residential developments in ever more remote exurbias. In a "free market," equally informed consumers make choices among a number of options. But it is nonetheless clear that Government has always played a role in limiting or opening up certain of these options.
 
Marijke A. Smit
New York 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SUBURBS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL POLLAN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



5 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 8-1-99: On Language;
Bill-o' Rights

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
Sir William Blackstone, working away at his "Commentaries on the Laws of England" in 1765, had to deal with a list of stated rights passed by Parliament in 1689 in "An Act Declaring the Rights and Liberties of the Subject and Settling the Succession of the Crown." Just as Parliament settled on William and Mary of Orange as King and Queen, Blackstone settled on the list of powers to which their subjects were entitled as "the bill of rights."
Like most members of America's Continental Congress in 1774, Edward Rutledge, a delegate from South Carolina, read Blackstone. According to notes taken by John Adams, Rutledge rose in Carpenters' Hall in Philadelphia on Sept. 28 to say, "I came with an Idea of getting a Bill of Rights." He didn't get one. However, 14 years and one revolution later, Alexander Hamilton wrote in Federalist Paper No. 84, "The most considerable remaining objections to the Constitution is that the plan of the Convention contains no bill of rights." Hamilton thought it was unnecessary, but James Madison disagreed, and Thomas Jefferson wrote that he favored "the annexation of a bill of rights to the Constitution." Madison offered a dozen amendments; the states brushed aside 2 dealing with apportionment and Congressional pay and ratified 10; though the list never had a formal title, the United States had what became known as "the Bill of Rights," capitalized. 
 Cut to two centuries later. I invited Judge Samuel I. Rosenman, one of F.D.R.'s great speech writers, to visit the Nixon speech writers at the White House. He told us how Roosevelt's writers had enlivened his 1944 State of the Union Message by inserting an Economic Bill of Rights (to a job, to a decent home, to a good education, "to adequate protection from the economic fears of old age"). Sometime later, when I noticed one of the newer speech writers, Lee Huebner, slaving over the world's dullest economic message, I passed along the Rosenman tip: do a preamble called an economic bill of rights. He did, and our turbid message with a ringing label got pretty good coverage.
The day before F.D.R.'s 1944 use of the Economic Bill of Rights, Senator Joel Bennett Clark of Missouri introduced legislation drafted by Harry Colmery of the American Legion, who called it a Bill of Rights for G.I. Joe and G.I. Jane. "The House sent the G.I. Bill of Rights to the White House," reported The Times on June 14, 1944, as millions became entitled to guarantees on home mortgages and support for college education. Crime came next. In 1983, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime, in Virginia, the International Association of Chiefs of Police adopted a Crime Victims' Bill of Rights. Voters were victims, too, in the eyes of Max Macauley of Sacramento in 1988, and he proposed a Voters' Bill of Rights. Six years later, this label was picked up by a group of Chicago professors who plumped for "truthful, understandable messages," and no last-minute tricks. The millionaire Ron Unz now has that phrase going in California, where it means spending limits, partial public financing, a ban on corporate gifts and fast Web-site disclosure of fund-raising.
Which brings us to the Patients' Bill of Rights, now the subject of lively debate and very likely to be a battleground in the campaign of 2000.
As 1973 began, the American Hospital Association, in Chicago, packaged a policy statement in the catchy phrase. Lawrence K. Altman, the doctor reporting on medicine for The New York Times, put it in his lead, which earned it a front-page headline: "Hospital Patients' 'Bill of Rights' Backed." Dr. Altman explained, "What the hospital association has done is to collect the most commonly questioned situations and put them in one document." Included were the right to respectful care, confidentiality of records, a primary physician and notification of experimentation.
Twenty-six years later, Senators Tom Daschle and Ted Kennedy went to the White House to announce that "by passing a Patients' Bill of Rights -- national standards -- we can make sure that all Americans have the same right to health care."
The other day, I hopped in a cab, read the Taxi Passengers' Bill of Rights (to a clean cab and a respectful driver) and went to the supermarket, where I was reassured by a Consumers' Bill of Rights (to fresh produce and no hassling over returns). I am now at work on a Bill-of-Rights Writers' Bill of Rights. These include "the right to full coverage" and "entitlement to public attention."
 
Clara Bow Lives
In the Roaring Twenties, after her smash performance on the silent screen in the movie "It," she was called "the 'It' Girl." Clara Bow had it, and every flapper wanted it.
In Bob Woodward's book about Presidential hubris, "Shadow," the reporter writes about the thoughts of Sydney Hoffmann, a lawyer for Monica Lewinsky: "She concluded it was highly possible that Lewinsky had a form of Clara Bow syndrome, named after the famous silent-film actress who couldn't say no."
This is a classic example of a mondegreen -- a mishearing, or passed-along garble, of another's spoken communication. An example is a child's rendition of the opening of the Pledge of Allegiance as "I led the pigeons to the flag."
In 1922 (the year Clara was starring in "Down to the Sea in Ships"), an eminent French psychiatrist observed and reported a syndrome in which a woman has a delusional belief that an older, powerful, often celebrated man is in love with her. He called it psychose passionelle, which translates roughly as "erotomanic passion psychosis."
It is listed in Longman's Dictionary of Psychology and Psychiatry, however, under the name of the French doctor who identified the syndrome. His name was Clerambault. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION SERVICES AS (50%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WRITERS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BOW, CLARA (1905-65); SAFIRE, WILLIAM G I BILL (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



6 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES;
In Providence, Spring Rolls to Pizza

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER; BRYAN MILLER, a former restaurant critic for The Times, is co-author with Pierre Franey of the forthcoming "Cooking With the 60-Minute Gourmet" (Times Books).

 BODY:
TEN years ago Providence was known for three things: highly regarded colleges, an unmatched trove of Colonial and Federal architecture and Al Forno restaurant. But in recent years this historic port city has been on a tear, restoring the downtown riverfront, erecting shiny new office towers and, most notably for travelers, sprouting a crop of appealing new dining spots.
After years of decline, Providence is again becoming an economic and cultural force in New England, yet it is still small enough (population about 160,000) to have a cozy, convivial feeling. Following is a partial rundown of notable restaurants around town, some old, some new -- all of which you can walk to from bed-and-breakfasts on the collegiate East Side or from downtown hotels. 

Capriccio
At first glance, Capriccio looks like one of those turgid, Naugahyde-swaddled eateries that you find in most American cities. Owing to lack of research on my part, I strolled in for lunch one day dressed as if I were going to a tennis match. The owner for 23 years, Vincenzo Iemma, graciously ushered me to a table in the dim, grottolike dining room, complete with a waterfall, stone walls and pinpoint lighting.
The oversized, leather-bound menu illustrated with drawings of the chef and other key staff members was hardly encouraging. So what a delightful surprise it was to sample the light, herbaceous and boldly flavored food. I started with octopus, which may have been the best I have ever had: perfectly grilled, buttery tender and impeccably fresh, set over a nest of frisee.
One can't judge a kitchen's range with my limited sampling, but if the pasta special is any indication, there are plenty of winners. Farfalle cooked al dente comes tossed in a sprightly sauce of balsamic vinegar, olive oil, chopped tomatoes, arugula and baby shrimp. Other appealing selections include the pasta ribbons with sun-dried tomatoes, asparagus tips, mascarpone and chicken broth, and risotto cooked in champagne and chicken broth, studded with shrimp and asparagus tips.
Not surprisingly, the wine list is formidable, heavy on big-ticket Bordeaux and Tuscan selections. I had a fresh and pleasing 1996 Gavi "Le Lune" from Marchesi di Barolo ($33.50).
Among main courses, a Gibraltar of tuna steak did not fare as well; it was nicely cross-hatched and seasoned but, because of its size, still raw in the center.
The friendly and highly professional captain, packing a big battery-powered pepper mill, offered to wrap the remaining fish for me. I told him that I didn't think I could carry it too far.
For dessert, there was a nondescript tiramisu, all fluff and no coffee flavor, and a good pyrotechnical rendition of crepes suzette.
 
Neath's
The Providence food scene took a giant leap eastward with the opening last November of Neath's, a contemporary Cambodian restaurant with French touches in a restored warehouse along the Providence River. The chef and owner, Neath Pal, trained in some of Paris's better restaurants, including the Gaston-style Sousceyrac, before coming to Providence, where he put in a year at Al Forno.
The airy dining room is done in a winsome raspberry tone, with tall wooden columns and an open kitchen. From the window tables there is a view of the river and, in the distance, the eerily illuminated Narragansett Electric plant.
Typical of Mr. Pal's variegated cooking style is the buttery duck confit paired with star anise and a blend of five Chinese spices, along with a wonderfully mellow sweet-potato gratin with a port and fresh ginger reduction. Steamed and seared dumplings filled with Napa cabbage, shrimp, shiitake and ginger are light and well seasoned, too.
Another titillating starter is the Cambodian spring rolls, crunchy skeins of bean sprouts, Thai basil and grilled shrimp, served with a peanut dipping sauce, or the wood-grilled baguette served with a coconut and scallion dipping sauce. Local oysters are roasted well (not dried out as is so often the case) and flavored with a sweet-salty Japanese lime vinaigrette. The friendly service staff is helpful when it comes to describing these exotic dishes.
Desserts are fun and invigorating. Sweet and sticky rice with cubed mango and coconut milk is a house favorite. Smooth, intense fruit sorbets in lovely, perfumed broths are fresh and cleansing; also recommended are the fried chocolate wontons with ginger ice cream.
What Neath's wine list lacks in breadth it makes up for in intelligence. Among whites there are some well-chosen, crisp sauvignon blancs, pinot blancs and gewurztraminers -- all of which stand up nicely to these sharp-edged dishes. I sampled two bargains -- the 1996 Columbia Crest sauvignon blanc ($18) and the 1997 Hugel Gentil, from Alsace ($22). Reds are equally well matched, and prices across the board are very reasonable.
 
Cafe Nuovo
 Perched on the downtown riverbank, with panoramic views and an outdoor terrace, is Cafe Nuovo (under the same ownership as Capriccio). A popular spot for lunch, now five years old, it is sleek and modern, with slate-gray-and-rust banquettes, modern art and an open kitchen.
The chef, Timothy Kelly -- formerly of Canal Bar and 150 Wooster Street, both now defunct, in New York -- serves a bright palette of contemporary American fare with a few colorful dabs from Asia. His seafood chowder is a lusty and well-seasoned creation, replete with shrimp, salmon, scallops, butternut squash, corn and sweet peppers. A hillock of tuna tartar holding a flagpole of rolled seaweed, accompanied by a lime-juice-and-ginger-oil sauce, was pleasing, as were the grilled oysters with wasabi sauce.
One dish that just missed the mark was a special -- skewered shrimp and sweet bell peppers with a cloyingly sweet sauce. Lunch salads are a good bet, especially the "exotique," combining grilled shrimp, avocado, artichoke, and hearts of palm in a Middle Eastern-style yogurt dressing. Among the seafood options, deftly cooked salmon moistened with a tomato-balsamic dressing came with grilled zucchini and sun-dried tomato-tinged mashed potatoes.
The varied wine list is generally fairly priced, although a few more selections under $25 would be welcome. I had an excellent Markham sauvignon blanc from the Napa Valley ($26).
Emily Pascal, the young pastry chef, is making waves around town with her stellar desserts, including a black and white chocolate mousse with cappuccino tartufo, and a chocolate and vanilla tasting plate.
Several times a month, on the river outside the restaurant, the city puts on a spectacular show called Water Fire, in which giant torches perched over the water are ignited. Cafe Nuovo is an ideal viewing spot. The next displays are on Aug. 21 and 28 and Oct. 9 (others may be added, so check with the restaurant).
 
Empire
Empire is a sassy new kid on the block, a stylish, breezy cafe directly across from the city's highly regarded Trinity Repertory Company. The owners, Eric Moshier and Loren Falsone, earned their culinary stripes, as so many local chefs have, at Al Forno (whose owners are also part-owners of Empire).
Opened last March in a former Packard automobile showroom, the long, L-shaped space has been spiffed up in pale gray tones with a granite bar and tall windows facing the theater. It attracts a vivacious young crowd, especially after the theater.
When the kitchen revs up its engine the results can be rousing. Among the better starters is a crispy tempura of sugar snap peas served in a paper cone, with a hot anchovy and garlic dip. Brittle, thin-crusted pizzas are good to share, either the Margarita with mozzarella and lots of fresh basil, or another with spinach, sausages and three cheeses. While stuffed artichoke is humdrum, you can get a nice individual antipasto plate with four kinds of ham and salami.
The chef takes a straightforward entree, like roasted pork tenderloin, and imparts brio by glazing it with rhubarb; the pork comes with a beguiling fennel-onion puree. The best dish I sampled was the roasted rack of lamb with a bright Vidalia-onion-and-mint chutney and potato dumplings. And you can't go wrong with a simple lemony chicken breast with asparagus and fried onion rings.
Empire's small wine list is full of bargains under $25, especially from Italy. One worth trying is the ripe, light-bodied 1995 Gigondas from E. Guigal, in the Rhone Valley ($26).
The enthusiastic service staff will get you out of the dining room in time for a performance across the street. But if you are not scurrying off to the Trinity Rep, you might make your third act either the feathery lavender panna cotta with caramelized apples, or the pear and rhubarb crumble with mascarpone.
 
Al Forno
Al Forno is so hot that the Providence River emits steam as it flows by. This 20-year-old Northern Italian grill-style restaurant gets away with a no-reservation policy and, judging from the nightly lines, hoards of gastronomic pilgrims find the trek worthwhile. The owners, George Germon and Johanne Killeen, have been lionized in the national press for years, but based on my most recent dinner there, they are showing some human frailties.
The clamorous two-level restaurant is all white and cheerful, while the brick and slate upstairs room is comfortable and convivial -- except for hard, cushionless wooden banquettes for the tables along the wall that would make a Puritan wince. The young, informed servers do the best they can under trying circumstances.
Al Forno is famous for its toasty wood-grilled pizzas; try the Margarita, which inspired the clone at Empire. The clam roast platter is briny and fresh, although the sausage was so hot I could barely taste anything else (in fairness, the menu warns you that it is spicy). A soft-shell crab sandwich, on garlicky bread with bean sprouts and tomatoes, was fun, and it came with excellent shoestring potatoes.
Two big letdowns were the dried-out and bland pepper-grilled chicken and the unseasoned grilled squid along with flavorless rice. Wonderfully fresh sea bass is grilled to perfection, but the accompanying tomato-scallion sauce puts the canned versions in a favorable light.
The restaurant's international wine list seems to have improved since my last visit, especially in whites, with good selections under $30. Two wines that complement this smoky food are the full-bodied and savory Monsanto Chianti Classico Reserva, 1995 ($35), and from the esteemed house of Mastroberardino, the white 1996 Lacryma Christi ($29).
Among the desserts to try are the ripe blueberry gratin, the homemade ice creams and the sharp-sweet gooseberry tart.
 
Bill of fare
These restaurants accept major credit cards, have a smoking section and have valet parking, except where noted. All but Capriccio are wheelchair accessible. Prices are for a three-course dinner for one with a glass of wine.
Capriccio, 2 Pine Street, at the corner of Dyer Street; (401) 421-1320.Serves Monday to Thursday from 11:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M., Friday until 11 P.M., Saturday 5 to 11 P.M., Sunday 4 to 9 P.M. About $40 to $45.
Neath's, 262 South Water Street; (401) 751-3700. Dinner only; open 5:30 to 10 P.M. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday; until 10:30 P.M. Friday and Saturday. About $35 to $40. Parking ($2).
Cafe Nuovo, One Citizens Plaza; (401) 421-2525. Lunch, from 11:30 A.M. to 3 P.M. Monday to Friday; dinner, 5 to 10:30 P.M. Monday to Thursday; until 11 P.M. Friday and Saturday. Closed Sunday. About $40 to $45.
Empire, 123 Empire Street, corner of Washington Street; (401) 621-7911. Lunch, 11:30 A.M. to 2:30 P.M. Monday to Friday; dinner, 5 to 11 P.M. Monday to Thursday, to midnight Friday and Saturday. Closed Sunday. About $30 to $35. Valet parking Thursday, Friday and Saturday night. Smoking at outdoor tables.
Al Forno, 577 South Main Street; (401) 273-9760. Dinner only; open 5 to 10 P.M. Tuesday to Friday; 4 to 10 P.M. Saturday. Closed Sunday and Monday. No reservations. About $40 to $45. Free parking. No smoking.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A gondola passes Cafe Nuovo, a fine spot for viewing the city's Water Fire show. Neath Pal, owner and chef of Neath's, offers Cambodian cuisine with a French accent. The bar at Empire, a stylish newcomer offering rousing variations of classic entrees. The grottolike dining room at Capriccio, with boldly flavored food and a formidable wine list. (Photographs by Bill Powers for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Juan Mejia with wood-grilled pizza at Al Forno. (Bill Powers for The New York Times)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); CITIES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); 

PERSON: NEATH PAL (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



7 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 28; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Completing an Incomplete

BYLINE: By Ron Dicker; Ron Dicker is a frequent contributor to the Sports section of The Times.

 BODY:
Every morning before leaving the house, Reggie Barlow, a wide receiver for the Jacksonville Jaguars, says he kisses his college diploma. "It's my greatest achievement."
 Lem Burnham, the vice president of player and employee development for the National Football League, is hoping more players will show the same ardor. In 1992, Mr. Burnham initiated the N.F.L.'s continuing education program to nudge players back into the classroom. Every summer, before training camp, he and his staff are host to a symposium urging rookies to finish what they started. Unlike Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association, the N.F.L. requires all players to have some college before joining a team. But only 30 percent of all first-year players, and about 35 percent of all league players, have a degree. 
 The program helps players apply for and schedule classes around training, provides counseling and skill-assessment testing, and arranges internships, often working in conjunction with universities near the players' home teams.
 This year, 30 players graduated, the most since the program began, and more than 400 attended classes -- usually off-season in the late winter and spring. (Training camp precludes summer school.) Since the continuing education program began, 100 players have graduated.
 The athletes seem to be making the most of their second chance.
 According to Mr. Burnham, players entering the N.F.L. without a degree had a mean grade point average of 1.9 in college, but those who resume their studies achieve a 3.2.
 For players, motivations vary. Donnie Edwards, a linebacker with the Kansas City Chiefs who recently polished off his master's in education administration at the University of California at Los Angeles, cites a boyhood visit to the home of a well-to-do family where he was told that a college degree was the way to a big house and a white picket fence. Others see it as key to their stature as role models, or as a fallback for their life after football -- no small consideration, given that the average duration of a pro football career is three and a half years, to say nothing of the hazards of a profession where one injury can lead to abrupt career displacement.
 "Football is a small window in your life," said the Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach Tony Dungy, who encourages bench warmers and high-profile athletes alike to finish college. A few Buccaneers have even taken classes in-season, which is fine with Mr. Dungy. "As long as it didn't jeopardize what he had to do on the field, I wouldn't be against it."
 Here are five players who went the whole nine yards.
 
KEN NORTON JR.
 Between them, Ken Norton Jr. and his father have won three Super Bowls and boxing's heavyweight championship of the world. But no man in the Norton family could call himself a college graduate until this past June, when the younger Norton, 12 years removed from his starring days at U.C.L.A., returned to the university and received his diploma as his father, wife and three children watched.
 Mr. Norton, 32, a gifted linebacker for the San Francisco 49ers who holds the team record for the most tackles in a single season (165), said a feeling gnawed at him as he raised his children.
 "I'm really pushy when it comes to education with my children," he said. "And I thought, 'How can I be preaching all this mess when I haven't done it myself?' I felt like the biggest hypocrite in the world."
 Mr. Norton, who normally spends the off-season in Dallas, moved with his family into an apartment near the U.C.L.A. campus last winter, and he took on a full load to finish his sociology degree. His wife, Angela, and 13-year-old daughter, Brittney, helped type his papers.
 The 49ers coach, Steve Mariucci, excused his defensive standout from a minicamp so he could write his last five papers and take three final exams. It was a rare gesture in a sport consumed with winning.
 "If it was important to him, it was important to me," Mr. Mariucci said.
 
DERRICK BROOKS
 Even before becoming a Pro Bowl linebacker for two years running for the Buccaneers, Derrick Brooks thought about expanding his options for the day his football career would end.
 Mr. Brooks, 26, had always been a diligent student. He graduated with a communications degree from Florida State University in three and a half years, nearly unheard of for a player at the football-obsessed school. Yet he felt he had not done enough in the classroom to insure a future in the media.
 In April, Mr. Brooks completed his master's in communications after taking classes for four years at his alma mater in the off-season. He bolstered his resume by appearing on a weekly highlights program on local television called "The Derrick Brooks Locker Room Show" and attended a broadcasting seminar.
 "It takes commitment," said Mr. Brooks, a 6-foot 235-pounder who has averaged more than 130 tackles over the last three seasons. "There's a lot of things you can't do. No vacation. But at the same time, I'm having fun."
 
REGGIE BARLOW
 Reggie Barlow may have caught 11 passes for 168 yards last season for the Jaguars and returned a punt and a kick for a touchdown, but the statistic he is most proud of is the 3.0 grade point average he earned while working toward an education degree from the University of North Florida.
 Mr. Barlow, 26, a former player at Alabama State, has been a student teacher at both an elementary and a high school, and plans to focus on high school. Not that teaching physical education gives him a break from competition: At First Coast High School in Jacksonville, his charges, who were well aware of his exploits as a wide receiver and kick returner, constantly tested him. "If they could beat me in horseshoes," he said, "it was a good day for them."
 
ROMAN OBEN
 "How many cruises can you go on before you get bored?" asked Roman Oben, a 6-foot-4, 310-pound offensive tackle for the New York Giants and a fourth-year pro.
 There was never a question what he was going to do in the off-season. Mr. Oben, 27, who came to the United States from Cameroon with his mother when he was 4 and graduated from the University of Louisville with a degree in economics, enrolled at Fairleigh Dickinson University, in Teaneck, N.J., after his rookie year. He expects to get his master's degree in public administration in the spring of 2001.
 Last spring Mr. Oben served an internship with the Archdiocese of Newark, helping to organize retreats for high school students. He hopes to work for a major city government next year and follow that with a stint in the private sector.
 "In five years," he said, "I'll have enough experiences to know what I want to focus on."
 
TOBY MYLES
 An offensive tackle for the Giants, and now a bachelor's degree candidate in business administration, Toby Myles, 25, has been competing for a starting job as Mr. Oben's backup for two years. While he is determined to have a productive professional football career, the possibility that it might
 not work out has been in the back of his mind.
 "I got out in the real world and realized how important it was to be competitive as a citizen when my playing days are over," he said.
 Mr. Myles, who lost credits when he transferred to Jackson State from Mississippi State, pulled a heavy load in the spring. From 8 A.M. until noon he trained with the Giants at the Meadowlands complex in East Rutherford, N.J. Then he ate a quick lunch, studied for a few hours and drove to Fairleigh Dickinson for classes from 5 to 8:30 P.M. He received B's in accounting, statistics, business as a global society and business law. Mr. Myles plans on being a college graduate by this time next year.
 "It will make one phase of my life complete," said Mr. Myles, who hopes to own a business when he retires from football. "I want to say I'm an educated man."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toby Myles, left, and Roman Oben are New York Giants. They are also, respectively, bachelor's and master's candidates at Fairleigh Dickinson. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); MISSOURI, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (54%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (84%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (84%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); MISSOURI, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (54%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); BOXING (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); BASEBALL (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

PERSON: DICKER, RON KEN NORTON JR (83%); LEM BURNHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



8 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 17; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 2684 words

HEADLINE: Student Life;
Betwixt and Between

BYLINE: By James Sterngold; James Sterngold is a correspondent for The Times based in Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
It was mid-June, and so Virginia Parks, a teaching assistant in the geography department at the University of California at Los Angeles, was singing the usual end-of-semester blues. She had to grade roughly 80 final exams, each of them 8 to 10 pages, for a course on race and employment in cities.
 To earn extra money, she was also helping with a biogeography class, and had to grade final exams for some of its 100 undergraduates, as well as a handful of their final presentations. 
 For both courses, Ms. Parks is paid about $1,700 a month.
 It was a heavy burden, but those were just half of her responsibilities; in addition, Ms. Parks is working on her Ph.D. The day before administering the first of the undergraduate exams, she had to take her own final in statistics. And days after grading the last of the undergraduate exams, she would have to sit for a grueling week of what are known as qualifying exams, the last step before beginning a thesis. She had four hours of written exams on a Monday, eight hours on Tuesday, four more on Wednesday, and then a 48-hour endurance test of an exam in which she had to research and write a 30-page paper outlining a thesis plan for a hypothetical topic that would be given to her.
 "I'm a little bit freaked," said Ms. Parks, 28, sounding surprisingly cheerful nonetheless.
 Graduate student life has always been, to put it mildly, a time of sacrifice. But that is part of the strategy: students are regarded as apprentices, both scholars and educators in the making, with tenured faculty wielding considerable power over their futures. Teaching is seen as part of the training for a life in the Academy. The modest wages are considered almost a bonus.
 But Ms. Parks and her fellow teaching assistants, or T.A.'s, have rejected this traditional academic model.
 In a shift that could have subtle yet far-reaching implications, the teaching assistants at the University of California -- one of the largest state university complexes in the country, with 170,000 graduate and undergraduate students on nine campuses -- elected this spring to form unions to demand better conditions.
 "For these students, teaching is a job," said Elizabeth Bunn, a vice president of the United Automobile Workers in Detroit who has been overseeing T.A. unionization efforts. "We've never accepted the argument that there is a difference between the university and other kinds of workplaces when the issue is work. The workers are not asking to be paid for their work as students. They are asking to be paid fairly when they work as employees of the universities."
 The California campuses are by far the biggest prize in a movement that has been slowly gaining momentum around the country for years. Twelve campuses, including three at the State University of New York, had T.A. unions three years ago, according to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Today, there are 23 unionized campuses, with serious movements under way at institutions like Yale, Temple, Oregon State and New York University.
 So far, only students at public universities, which are governed by state labor laws rather than Federal law, have succeeded in forming unions, after being recognized as public employees.
 Unions hope the next breakthrough will be at a private university. The National Labor Relations Board is considering a case filed on behalf of N.Y.U. graduate students. If the board decides that, under Federal law, the T.A.'s are employees rather than students, it would open the way for a union vote in the next academic year at N.Y.U. It would also reverse a 25-year-old interpretation of the law and enable union elections at other private institutions.
 This historic shift is part of a broader change in university instruction. Over the last several decades, tenured or tenure-track faculty members have been teaching an ever-shrinking proportion of undergraduate classes. The number of part-time faculty and teaching assistants has increased to 47 percent in 1995 from 22 percent in the mid-1970's, according to the Department of Education. The change was motivated largely by the need to reduce costs, said Cary Nelson, a professor at the University of Illinois who has written extensively on this shift.
 Now, of course, most universities are prospering in a robust economy, but the trend of relying on low-paid part-timers and T.A.'s is still growing, surprising researchers.
 "We expected that when the financial situation improved it would go away," said Jay Chronister, a professor of education at the University of Virginia and co-author of a recent study on this trend in teaching responsibilities. "That has not been the case at most institutions."
 One reason, Dr. Chronister said, is fear that graduate enrollment would drop if T.A. positions were cut back. Also, some universities want full professors focusing on scholarship and research. "We assess the quality of a faculty member, correctly or incorrectly, through the quality of publications and grants they can bring in," said Dr. Chronister. "We don't build our national reputation on teaching."
M s. Parks met with her six biogeography students in a classroom off a palm-shaded courtyard. One by one they stood and, somewhat nervously, gave presentations they had been assigned weeks earlier. Each had been asked to critique an academic article assessing the effects of development on various environments, from a national park in Africa to a reef off South America.
 Ms. Parks -- slight, energetic, with a droll sense of humor -- stretched out in a chair, a battered pair of eyeglasses sliding down her nose. She listened patiently and asked questions to stimulate discussion and draw out the students. After class, with union organizing posters as backdrop and a bare table as a desk, she spent an hour in the office she shares with other T.A.'s, making herself available to any student who strolled in, as she is obliged to do.
 The biogeography class had been particularly time consuming, she said, because it was outside her area of concentration, economic geography. For instance, she needed to study the six articles she had assigned the students, and regularly put in far more than the 20 hours a week the university sets as a guideline for T.A. work.
 Her real interest is economic development in the inner city -- social justice, as she puts it -- which is why she got a master's degree in urban planning before embarking on a Ph.D. With tenure-track positions much sought after and in short supply, she said she is leaving open the possibility that she might end up working for a think tank or nonprofit foundation after completing her studies.
 She is convinced that one of the greatest obstacles to achieving her goals is the teaching. But it is essential because she needs the income. "What's falling behind is my own research," Ms. Parks said. She has had to delay for more than a year a paper on changing patterns of immigrant labor within cities because she cannot find the time. "I would catch up over the summer, but I have to find a job and work over the summer."
 Even some students who oppose the aggressive unionization efforts agree that teaching can prolong graduate studies and make it a more trying experience.
 Amy Young, a graduate student in geology, said she had lost about a year in her studies because of her teaching load. But she worries that undergraduates will suffer if T.A.'s limit their work hours, one of the union's main goals. "It wouldn't be possible to do a good job on just 20 hours a week," Ms. Young said. "I would feel like I was gypping the students if I didn't put more time into it."
 For their part, tenured professors say they do not monitor the hours T.A.'s put in, but do expect competent and full work in the classroom.
 "I guess it's sort of 'Don't ask, don't tell,' " said Mark Ellis, Ms. Parks's adviser in the geography department and a supporter of the union cause.
 Melissa Savage, the professor with overall responsibility for the biogeography course Ms. Parks was helping with, calls the system archaic. "At one time graduate students were really captives of the faculty," she said. "They had to do a great many things for nothing. That sort of thing is frowned on now.
 "Universities are increasingly like the corporate world," Professor Savage added. "The perception of the university as a protected place, as a place set aside from the hurly-burly of life, is no longer true."
 Not surprisingly, university administrators disagree. They say their greatest concern is that unionization would upset the traditional, informal relationship between student and professor on which graduate education has long depended.
 "Really, the concern for me is the possible establishment of an adversarial relationship of two groups who should be involved in nurturing and mentoring relationships," said Dr. Claudia Mitchell-Kernan, U.C.L.A.'s dean of graduate studies. "We have felt that the teaching experience was part of the education, and we continue to feel that the educational component of the T.A.-ship is primary, particularly for those preparing to go on to academic careers.
 "That's really the question," she said. "Where the balance lies."
 Robert Berne, N.Y.U.'s vice president for academic development, who has been the point man in the battle against unionization on that campus, said the university's resistance has little to do with finances. Instead, he said, the issue is flexibility and the role of the professor as mentor, guide and sometimes colleague.
 "These are students and the activities associated with a union would harm that," Mr. Berne said. "The fundamental academic enterprise would be negatively affected in a number of different ways. The work in graduate school is really individual and it depends on a relationship with professors that the union would homogenize."
 Ms. Young, the geology student, believes unionization would be a violation of a code of honor. "By joining the union," she said, "I feel like I'd be slapping the department in the face."
Last December, the organization behind the union drive at U.C.L.A., the Student Association of Graduate Employees, or SAGE, called a strike for semester's end, the busiest time. Some T.A.'s broke ranks and taught their courses anyway. Some held classes off campus.
 Ms. Parks chose not to go to class or grade any papers. She described it as a difficult but necessary step.
 "You heard a lot of people saying, 'Oh, we're so dedicated. This isn't really work. It's this higher calling,' " she said. "I am totally committed to it, but it's a job. I just felt we really had to stick with it. I believed the action meant totally withholding our labor."
 The action lasted four days, with the State Legislature stepping in and calling for a cooling-off period. The university docked the strikers' pay for the days missed, including Ms. Parks's wages. Ms. Parks objected, because the work she would have done was merely put aside for her to do when she returned. With the support of her department, she was ultimately given full pay.
 The strike, though short-lived, underscored for many people how strong the movement had become. It had taken 15 years to get that far.
 The unionization drive in California began in 1983 at Berkeley. Four years later it became affiliated with the U.A.W., which had been trying to organize white-collar workers.
 After a two-day strike in 1989, the organization began collective bargaining with the administration. It won two benefits for teaching assistants: a partial remission of graduate student fees and paid health care, excluding eye and dental care.
 The biggest break came last December, after years of litigation, when U.C.L.A.'s SAGE chapter won a ruling by California's Public Employment Relations Board that declared teaching assistants were state employees, not just students.
 A vote was ordered to determine if the T.A.'s wanted to be represented by the union. The union won the vote at U.C.L.A. in March, followed a month later by Berkeley and then the remaining campuses. A total of 68 percent who voted were in favor.
 Among the priorities are limiting work hours to 20 hours a week (an unlikely prospect, all agree) or getting paid for time put in; extending health insurance to include dental care and eyewear; seeking a full remission of fees (they currently get 60 percent of about $5,000 a year) and improving the grievance process so that graduate students do not find their academic standing jeopardized if they complain about abusive conditions or harassment on the job.
 "What we are doing is not going to make graduate student life idyllic," said Ricardo Ochoa, a law student and president of the Association of Graduate Student Employees at Berkeley. "But it has the potential for easing some of the pressures."
 Students expect their lives to remain a constant balancing act. Ms. Parks receives no financial assistance from her family. She and her boyfriend, also a graduate student in geography, share the $550 rent on a small one-bedroom apartment in Venice. It is about seven and a half miles from the U.C.L.A. campus, and Ms. Parks, a former bicycle racer on the U.C.L.A. team, pedals her old bike to school most days.
 Existence is Spartan, with a meal out a rarity. She and her boyfriend go to movie matinees because they are a few dollars cheaper, and they rarely socialize in bars or other venues that cost money.
 "I can tell you where all the free things are in L.A.," Ms. Parks said.
 She is relatively sanguine about her financial restrictions, but the issue is a sore one for many students tired of the economic sacrifices. "I feel like I should be a grown-up by now, with a car that doesn't always break down," said Elizabeth Schirmer, 28, who is working on her Ph.D. in English at Berkeley. "It gets old."
Teaching assistants are buffeted by several high-pressure cross-currents.
 Grievances against professors, for instance, have the potential for wrecking academic careers, graduate students say. As it stands, complaints must be taken to the chairman of the department involved. There is no neutral third party to hear them.
 It is a little discussed subject, but anecdotes circulate about graduate students who have faced some form of retribution after complaining about a professor -- a poor letter of recommendation or a refusal to transfer a graduate student to a different adviser.
"This could damage the position of a student and employment prospects," Ms. Parks said.
 Rhoda Janzen, a poet who is getting her Ph.D. in English at U.C.L.A., agrees. "The tenured professor has an unusual and even a dangerous amount of power," she said. "It's awesome."
 Teaching assistants also face pressure in grading undergraduates. On the one hand, if the grading is not tough, it can harm the T.A.'s reputation as well as the professor's, Ms. Parks said. Yet tough grading can be even more hazardous. Undergraduates, increasingly worried about getting into professional schools, have grown more aggressive in challenging teachers about grades.
 "To be a tough grader you have to be willing to put in more time explaining better what you did, giving students more time to do their work," Ms. Parks said. "You're sort of betwixt and between."
 The pressure "isn't subtle, it's overt," Ms. Janzen said. She was once threatened with a lawsuit by a student to whom she had given a B. In general, professors back them up in disputes, Ms. Janzen said, but it's important to be careful not to embarrass them.
 "You have to tiptoe around the tenured professors as well as the students," Ms. Janzen said.
 But undergraduate students face a similar situation with their teaching assistants. Ms. Parks recently wrote a recommendation for a student who was seeking to transfer to Stanford. The letter made her realize the responsibility and power she had.
 "In the end, I'm the one who knows the student," Ms. Parks said. "I'm the one writing the letter of recommendation, and there's no recognition in the system for the role we play."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Virginia Parks, a graduate student in U.C.L.A.'s geography department and a union supporter, faces a mountain of papers to be graded, one of her duties as a teaching assistant. (Photographs by Marissa Roth for The New York Times); A day in a busy life: Conferring with one of her students after a biogeography lab; attending a statistics class for her own studies; helping teach the biogeography course. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times); A rally at Yale last April supported a teaching assistants' union, a growing issue at other institutions, both public and private. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; UNIONIZATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PARAEDUCATORS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); 

PERSON: PARKS, VIRGINIA; STERNGOLD, JAMES VIRGINIA PARKS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



9 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 22; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 3599 words

HEADLINE: Making the Ask

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip; Michael Winerip is a senior staff writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
If ever there were a man placed on this earth for the purpose of being president of the University of Virginia, it is Dr. John Casteen 3d. Born and raised near Portsmouth, Va., he entered the state's elite public university in 1961 after turning down offers from Harvard and Princeton, and was immediately smitten by the beauty and grace of this campus that Thomas Jefferson designed. Dr. Casteen earned a bachelor's degree with high honors, then a master's and a Ph.D. in English, with a specialty in Beowulf. Along the way he learned 12 languages, won a literary award for a collection of short stories and built a reputation as a dedicated teacher.
 When still in his 20's, he told one of the deans, Ernest Ern, "I'm going to be president of this university," and to this day, at the age of 55, when asked to name his heroes, Dr. Casteen ticks off a list dominated by past University of Virginia presidents. One of his formative moments as a young man came in the spring of 1970, when he watched the University of Virginia president at the time, Edgar Shannon -- an English scholar, a former Harvard professor and a World War II hero -- win over a crowd of 4,000 angry antiwar protesters gathered at the heart of the campus on the lawn near the Rotunda. "For the first time," said Dr. Casteen, "I heard a lengthy, serious debate about the moral basis of intellectual life and national policy." 
 In 1990, it was Dr. Casteen's turn. A methodical, driven man with a love of the classics, he set out to create a blueprint for his university presidency that was finely balanced and quite traditional. He would spend three days a week on campus guiding his professors and deans. He would teach a literature course each semester, to keep in touch with students and carry on the role of the scholar president. And the remaining time he would devote to travel, to spread word of the university's good deeds, to partake in academic associations and to help with fund-raising.
 But after three years, the university's board of trustees had no patience for a traditional president. Dr. Casteen was in trouble with the board. "We didn't know if he'd be able to continue," says a top university official.
 Dr. Casteen wasn't bringing in the bucks! During the recession of the early 90's, politicians in Richmond had taken a cleaver to Virginia's higher education budget, in a few years' time reducing annual state funding to the university from $178 million to $122 million.
 By 1993, the University of Virginia -- one of the most respected public universities in the country -- was receiving just 13 percent of its operating budget from the state.
 By 1993, the board wanted one thing beyond all others from President Casteen: money. University trustees feared that without a major fund-raising drive, the school's quality and reputation would suffer.
 The board's new marching orders were quite specific: Four out of every five days Dr. Casteen was to be on the road fund-raising. And no more teaching; that was a relic of the past. "They wanted me outside selling," Dr. Casteen recalls. "They were upset I was spending three days a week on campus."
 As Joshua Darden, a former university board chairman, says: "The seven-figure donors, they want to see the president, it makes them feel important. John had to be out there."
 What Dr. Casteen has accomplished in the six years since has been impressive. He has raised $884 million on his way to a goal of $1 billion by the end of the year 2000, one of the largest fund-raising efforts by a public university. The drive has endowed 514 new scholarships and 135 professorships, greatly expanded the library collection and raised salaries, helping the university hold on to its talented faculty.
 Such financial strength has played a role in keeping Virginia the top-rated public university for five years in a row on the influential U.S. News & World Report college survey. By fattening the endowment to $1.2 billion during this era of shrinking government support, Dr. Casteen has also helped insulate his university from some of the political whims emanating from Richmond.
 But all this has come at both a professional and a personal cost. He was criticized last year as an absentee leader in an editorial in the student newspaper, which nicknamed him Capital Campaigner Casteen. And while Dr. Casteen is a private man who rarely discusses his personal life even with those closest to him, friends say the fund-raising roadshow contributed to the breakup of his second marriage.
 If the enduring image of President Shannon was that of a man talking reason to 4,000 protesters, the enduring image of President Casteen on campus may well be of a man schmoozing up alumni at the president's residence; last year he opened Carr's Hill, the president's home, for more than 150 fund-raising events.
 Nor is this considered extreme these days, even for a public university. In fact, it is rapidly becoming the norm. At one meeting of Dr. Casteen's cabinet, nobody blinked when he explained what he would be doing in the next months. "I plan to get pretty deeply into people's pockets," said the Beowulf scholar.
It is remarkable how fund-raising has come to preoccupy top people at even public universities. This is not something a president is allowed to delegate anymore. As one Casteen aide, Gordon Burris, says, "We need the president making the ask." And as another aide, Robert Sweeney, says, "They want to see the president when it's time for the closer." And in between, says Dr. Casteen, "you really have to work on cultivation." Otherwise, the president's time is his own.
 In recent years, in the face of lagging state support, several public universities, including Berkeley, the University of California at Los Angeles and the University of Michigan, have undertaken billion-dollar fund-raising drives, according to the latest report from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education in Washington.
 While at first blush this would sound like good news for America's public universities -- how can you argue with more money? -- free money often has its price. At the University of Virginia, for example, major donors tend to be out-of-state businessmen, alumni who have gone off into the larger world and made their fortune. They complain about the need to have more out-of-state students accepted to give the university a more global perspective (the current ratio among the 18,500 students is one-third out of state, two-thirds in state). And they'd like to see less state interference, perhaps even ending the university's public status altogether. "This is an opportunity to wean ourselves off state support," Everette Doffermyre, an Atlanta lawyer and donor, said at an alumni fund-raising gathering in Tucson last year. "This is our chance to get control of U-Va.'s destiny."
 Professors also worry that donors will pressure universities on policy as well as admission preference for their children.
 University officials say such concerns are exaggerated, and the benefits outweigh the potential conflicts. One reason Dr. Casteen has come to embrace his fund-raising role was his experience in the 1970's as a professor at another great public university, the University of California at Berkeley. There he saw firsthand how the school suffered when its leadership got locked in funding battles with Gov. Ronald Reagan. "It made me realize public institutions are fragile," he says, "and the need for some degree of financial autonomy."
 Among presidents, Dr. Casteen is considered a master of the soft sell. He was guest speaker last year at a meeting of Maryland's 13 public university presidents, who sat around a horseshoe-shaped table at their headquarters in Adelphi taking notes on Dr. Casteen's sure-fire fund-raising tips.
 "To conceive of fund-raising as making a pitch is missing the point," began Dr. Casteen, explaining that the real way to win over alumni is to get them enmeshed with the university's future. "Money's only one part of what you need to ask for," he said. "I ask for their vision of the university, I ask for their political support, I ask for their membership on committees, I ask for their children."
 The president must make the ask, he said, because the president embodies the university, and "people donate to a person, not a committee." He told the university presidents how he'd tried to set a tone, including making his own pledge ($50,000, simply listed alphabetically in the alumni donation publication); giving up teaching ("If I was going to be on campus three days a week, I wasn't going to be in Chicago in front of a guy at the Commodities Exchange"); and using his house for events whenever he's on campus ("There is a serious relationship between people coming into my house for a reception before ball games and being a large donor").
 He talked about how he used surveys and national rankings to put goals into focus for donors. "We did some research and discovered we're the largest university left without a concert hall," he said, a fact he constantly drops at alumni functions. He personally rewrites fund-raising letters. ("They have to inspire," said the former short story writer.) And he spent a half-hour going over his appointment book. ("This man likes to take a walk around campus -- he wants to walk, we walk. . . . This event, I'm not the center, I'm there to add a little weight to the party.")
 After an hour and a half, the presidents gave him a rousing hand. Dr. Hoke L. Smith, Towson University president, said that these fund-raising seminars usually focus on the technical, like the ratio of initial contacts to closures. "This was spiritual," Dr. Smith said.
 And this is precisely how Dr. Casteen landed $1.2 million for a new media center. In 1996, Dr. Casteen and one of his fund-raisers visited a wealthy alumnus, Tim Robertson (U-Va. '77, son of the evangelist Pat and president at the time of the Family Channel cable network). "John always brings somebody for support," Mr. Robertson says. "It's a lot more pressure when they bring two or three guys."
 Dr. Casteen asked what Mr. Robertson felt the university was lacking, and the TV executive suggested that the English department needed a media center to tap into the talent and wealth of the television world. "They thought that was a great idea," recalls Mr. Robertson. "They said they'd get back to me. I was amazed at how fast they did." In a few weeks, Dr. Casteen was visiting again, this time with his arts and sciences dean. "They had a whole curriculum laid out -- so fast!" says Mr. Robertson. "John said we'll need x amount to endow a professorship, x to set aside this floor at the library."
 After the deal was clinched, the university announced it -- several times. "They milked it for all its press value," Mr. Robertson says.
How does a man like Dr. Casteen, with so many intellectual gifts, have the patience and will to spend so much time on the road begging for money, alumni dinner after alumni dinner, cocktail party after cocktail party, the same speeches, the same conversations? A student reporter once asked how he did it, and Dr. Casteen's answer was fascinating for how little insight it provided. "To maintain the necessary pace," Dr. Casteen said, "you don't do anything magic, you keep your head clear, you exercise, you sleep, you follow rules of moderation." Rather than a peek into Dr. Casteen's psyche, this was his fitness regimen for ultra-marathon fund-raising.
 Indeed, today's university president often resembles the national television-age politician -- public figures who don't have an internal world or the ability to convey it, even though they are quite intelligent. That lack of introspection can be precisely what enables them to operate so effectively in the public arenas where they dwell.
 Dr. Casteen himself was briefly in politics, serving in the 1980's as state secretary of education to Gov. Charles S. Robb, a Democrat. He is shrewd politically, which has enabled him to continue as university president under both Democrat and Republican governors. When he speaks, he has a way of looking at you and raising an eyebrow, of starting an idea and not quite finishing it, often seeming to say more than his words while never really answering that controversial question.
 At the same time, as his vice president for development, Mr. Sweeney, points out, "he can deliver an impressive 40-minute speech on anything with no notes."
 Though he's constantly under pressure, rarely is there a crack in his game face. "I've seen him at a million tough moments when I know his stomach had to be churning," says Mr. Ern, the dean, who has worked with Dr. Casteen 30 years, "but John never lets on, that's part of the mystique. He doesn't let you see inside."
 As to what really is going on inside, even those closest to Dr. Casteen say it's hard to know. "I've never engaged an individual who can talk in such detail of hiking Dismal Swamp and say so little about himself," says Mr. Ern, referring to Dr. Casteen's passion for the outdoors. Even Dr. Casteen's brother Tim says, "I don't know how much I can help, he doesn't open up much."
 Dr. Casteen will not discuss how the demands of fund-raising affected his marriage or his relationship with his three grown children (nor would he permit interviews with them). But as one friend says, if you spend 80 percent of your work time on the road and when you are on campus you open your house for more than 150 fund-raising events a year, there is little time for a personal life.
 "If the spouse doesn't thrive in the fishbowl business," another friend says, "it's a problem." Dr. Casteen's former wife, Lotta, an English professor at the university, declined to be interviewed.
 To meet John Casteen 3d you would assume he was born to this elite world, but that is not so. His father and grandfather were shipyard workers in Portsmouth, and his parents still live in the same house where Dr. Casteen and his two brothers grew up. To this day, the brothers -- Dennis, a quality control worker at Norfolk Naval Base, and Tim, a fourth-grade public schoolteacher -- live on the same block as their mom and dad.
 The very things that have led Dr. Casteen to take a different route from the rest of his family also help make him the perfect fund-raiser for the University of Virginia. For his own worldly success illustrates the possibilities that a great public university can open up for a boy or girl of modest means.
 As a senior at Cradock High School in Portsmouth in 1961, he was accepted to Harvard and Princeton but could not afford either of those private universities. He chose Virginia after the dean of admissions, Marvin Perry, made a visit to the Casteen home to recruit this bright student and, sitting at the kitchen table, showed the family how it could afford the state school with its lower tuition.
 John 3d was the first Casteen to attend college. From the time he entered, he always worked to help pay his way, in the dining hall, at the library, unloading trucks at Morton Frozen Foods.
 He had trouble adjusting at first, didn't have the sureness of students from the elite private schools; as a freshman, he struggled to post a B-/C+ average. But during his sophomore year, he developed more confidence that this was a place he belonged, and he rarely got anything less than A's. From then on, the university felt almost magical. It was there that he met professors like William Faulkner and John Dos Passos, who turned him toward literature.
 After five years away, as a professor at Berkeley, Dr. Casteen returned to Charlottesville to be the University of Virginia's dean of admissions from 1975 to 1982. It was during this time that he began to return the favor that the university had done for him. Under Dr. Casteen, black student enrollment jumped from 2 percent to 11 percent, the current level. Nor was this a token effort. The four-year graduation rate of black students at Virginia -- 84 percent -- has long been the highest of any public university in the country.
 Back in the 1970's, when Dr. Casteen was laying that groundwork, he would spend his Sundays driving the state, visiting black churches, trying to convince parents that this university, which had been segregated into the 1960's, would now welcome their sons and daughters, that their children belonged at the state's elite public college.
 Dr. Casteen was doing for those families what Marvin Perry had done for him two decades before, sitting in the kitchen on Wildwood Road, explaining that a family could manage to send a child to a great university on a shipyard worker's salary.
 The university has undertaken only one other capital campaign since it was chartered in 1819. In the early 1980's, it set a goal of $90 million, raised $137 million in three years and promptly dismantled its development office, which is how things stood until Dr. Casteen took over. "We could never let that happen again," Mr. Sweeney says. "We can't afford to lose momentum."
 And so while there is still more than a year left in the current billion-dollar drive, the Capital Campaigner is already laying the groundwork for the next one. During the last year, he has been holding weekend retreats at resorts around the country -- in Tucson, Martha's Vineyard and Kiawah Island, S.C. -- with small groups of rich, hand-selected alumni in their 30's and 40's who Dr. Casteen hopes will run the next campaign.
 At the Tucson retreat, held at the Westin Paloma resort, where rooms go for $350 a night, all costs for the weekend for the dozen alumni and their spouses were picked up by the university. They flew in from all over the country, some in private planes, and one, Louis Elson, whose family made its fortune in airport stores, arrived from London. All were long-term donors. A few had already given more than $1 million; half had given more than $100,000.
 Dr. Casteen, who makes $360,643 a year, didn't just drop in, make a speech and leave. He spent the entire weekend, joining the alumni for seminars, meals, drinks, brainstorming sessions and lectures.
 After a Friday-evening cocktail hour on the patio, with the sun setting behind the desert mountains, the president delivered a speech at dinner on the decline of state aid to the university. This is why, he said, he was assembling a group of 100 families "to take the leadership for the next drive. You are about to take ownership of this thing."
 Before saying good night, Dr. Casteen told them, "I'll see you in the morning. We go to work at the godawful hour of 7:30." And sure enough, these bankers and venture capitalists, corporate lawyers and computer software entrepreneurs, were all there at that godawful hour, dressed in their khakis and polo shirts, shaved, showered and ready for a seminar on how the university will need to change by 2020.
 During the entire weekend, no one asked for money. The word was rarely spoken. "At U-Va.," said John L. Lewis 4th, an investment manager and six-figure donor, "gentlemen don't discuss their money or their grades."
 "This is about strengthening their bonds to the university," Dr. Casteen said. "These people understand why they're here."
 Indeed, Bert Ellis -- who a few years ago sold his chain of 13 television stations for $745 million -- had a keen grasp of why. "After I sold my company I gave a half million to the university and allocated stock, so I guess that's when I jumped up to this level," he said. "My wife and I can't spend the money we have. We love this university. Being a giver here is fun. I'm not anonymous. I want recognition. I want some tickets to the ball games."
 In recent years Virginia's governors, Democrat or Republican, have not been kind to higher education. During the early 1990's, it was Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, a Democrat, who cut state aid to the public universities. And now that Dr. Casteen has overcome those cuts through aggressive fund-raising, a new governor, James S. Gilmore 3d, a Republican, has formed a 39-member commission to study whether the state should have more control over how those private donations are being used.
 But if Governor Gilmore thought he was going to make political hay on this one, he gauged wrong. Editorial writers, business people and student leaders have blasted him for being hypocritical -- on one hand the state has cut its support, on the other the state wants control of private money the university raised to fill the state budget gap. In a vote of confidence for Dr. Casteen and the other state university presidents, a bipartisan legislative committee this year asked the Governor and his commission to "cease and desist." While the commission continued to hold hearings, says Mr. Darden, the former trustee, "they've been a real snore." Governor Gilmore is seeing firsthand, free money has its price.
 There is nothing like an outside enemy to unite a community; the Governor and his commission have succeeded in making Dr. Casteen a popular man in Charlottesville. In an editorial this past school year, the student newspaper apologized for its earlier criticisms, citing the "tremendous success of the campaign," and acknowledging that "Casteen's leadership has even humbled the editorial powers that be of this newspaper."
 It is not often that students admit to error -- certainly not in print -- and it must have given Dr. Casteen a great sense of vindication.
 "Yeah," he says. There is a pause, he lifts an eyebrow, but says no more.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Casteen greets visitors at Carr's Hill, the president's residence at the University of Virginia. He held more than 150 fund-raising events there last year. (Shana Raab for The New York Times); Hail to the chiefs: From left, Dr. Casteen and his predecessors, Robert O'Neil and Edgar Shannon, who has since died, in October 1995. (Daniel Grogan/University of Virginia); The son and grandson of shipyard workers, Dr. Casteen envisioned his future as president of the University of Virginia while still in his 20's. (Tim Rasmussen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (96%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LITERATURE (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); BUDGETS (67%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: CASTEEN, JOHN CLARE SHORT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



10 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 28; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 3420 words

HEADLINE: Is It Only a Game?

BYLINE: By George Vecsey; George Vecsey is a sports columnist with The Times.

DATELINE: SWARTHMORE, Pa.

 BODY:
Right in the middle of a game, Brian Bell realized he had lost his motivation to play football.
 "Never had I felt so helpless, where your actions don't make a difference," Mr. Bell said, recalling his disillusionment with the administration at Swarthmore College. "If they are not committed, then what's the point?" 
 If a highly motivated student and athlete like Brian Bell was unhappy, then football was in big trouble at Swarthmore, which first fielded a team in 1878.
 By that 1997 season, Swarthmore was unable to compete even on a modest scale. It was losing badly, its little stadium was practically empty, recruiting had fallen off, and players were quitting in the middle of the season, if not actually in the middle of games.
 "I felt the school could do away with football and it probably wouldn't make the front page of the school newspaper," said J. P. Harris, the quarterback.
 There were, perhaps, enough reasons for Swarthmore to end football, as other schools have done. But the college, invoking its Quaker tradition of talking things over, began an internal debate about whether football had any educational and communal value to one of the more distinguished private colleges in America.
 The response was an open-ended commitment to upgrade the program, using more aggressive recruiting and more money, in particular an anonymous $100,000 gift from an alumnus to underwrite some of the major costs like feeding and transporting these large-sized undergraduates.
 Success has not been immediate for the Garnet Tide. In the first year, the team still lost every game, and its losing streak has now reached 28 straight games -- the longest in the country.
 When they talk about football, Swarthmore administrators sound a little like bemused relatives who inherit a clunky heirloom from honored ancestors. They try to respect it, to maintain it, but this is not exactly a place where people go around chanting, "Goin' to Pasadena! In a Winnebago!" as they might at a Big 10 mega-campus on its way to the Rose Bowl. (At Notre Dame, in the fall, one could attend the most serious convocation on liberation theology and soon be aware of whom the Fighting Irish were playing next Saturday.)
 The costs and demands have begun to impress themselves on the leaders of Swarthmore. The reality is, football is more high maintenance than any other activity on campus. It involves coaches, equipment, food, travel, open fields, hard afternoons of practice, recruiting trips and -- perhaps most important -- an admissions department that sees something positive in young male applicants with broad shoulders and a certain inclination to whack other people around on autumn afternoons.
 Must there be a place for this sport at a small, elite college like Swarthmore? Just exactly where is the law that says higher education needs a football team to, pardon the expression, kick off the academic year? Some Swatties, as they are known, ask that question.
 "For me the choice was either go to the library to study or go to a football game -- so I chose the library," said Ethan Devine, who graduated in the spring and works as a Latin American equities research analyst for Goldman Sachs in New York City. "I remember a lot of people saying they were happy they graduated and the football team hadn't won a game," he said. "They think the whole thing should be abandoned, and they're pretty bitter that that much energy is put into it." Mr. Devine has never attended a game.
 Jeff Wu, president of the campus Asian Society, also thinks funds could be better utilized. He suggests new faculty members and a student center. "It's an academically focused institution," he said. "Focusing our money on sports is not beneficial for most of the people at Swarthmore."
Swarthmore's tiny and peaceful campus, in a leafy suburb of Philadelphia, has a decidedly 19th-century feel. The old main building, Parrish Hall, looms at the top of a long, graceful hill. By contrast, the athletic department is at the bottom of the hill, separated from the main campus by a railroad line.
 The 1,300 eclectic students have things to do other than watch football. A school brochure includes a sampling of campus activities: several a cappella groups, the Civil Liberties Society, Conscious Consumers, Earthlust (an environmental group), Firefighters, Martial Arts, Mad Wriggles (madrigal singers) and Swarming Earthworms (Men's Ultimate), a highly physical version of Frisbee. The campus is a registered arboretum, and every April Fools' Day -- how typically Swarthmore -- students change the names of the plants and trees with fake placards, sometimes using arcane Latin puns.
 The Princeton Review's "Best Colleges" 1999 edition says of Swarthmore: "What's Hot: Campus is beautiful, honesty, school runs like butter, left-wing politics, dorms. What's Not Hot: religion, hard liquor, drugs, beer, Greeks."
 "Anywhere else it would be a Ph.D." is the semiofficial slogan of the bachelor program at Swarthmore, which U.S. News & World Report ranks just behind Amherst as the country's top liberal arts college. Grading is so tough some students complain they are hindered in acceptance to graduate schools.
 Football has somehow managed to survive here. Early in the century, Swarthmore competed with many major Eastern schools, but as the sport became a powerhouse at some of them, the college settled for the modest Division III, with its lack of athletic scholarships.
 Dick Hall played football here in the early 50's and later pitched 14 seasons in the major leagues, mostly with the Baltimore Orioles. Now a semiretired accountant in Timonium, Md., the lanky Mr. Hall recalls with amusement a later period when Swarthmore "hired a good coach, and there was a question of whether they were winning too much."
 This ambivalence seems a recurrent theme. Neil Austrian, the president of the National Football League, was Swarthmore's captain and quarterback in 1960. "If I followed everybody else on a Saturday afternoon, I would have wound up in the library," he said recently. In Mr. Austrian's day, one of the big rivals was Haverford, on the Main Line of Philadelphia, but that school gave up the game in 1971.
 "Football consumes a disproportionate amount of resources, certainly the financial resources, time and the energy to do it right," said Greg Kannerstein, the athletic director at Haverford College. Mr. Kannerstein admitted he missed football as a community event but said it was too difficult to recruit 60 to 80 men out of a male enrollment of 550.
 At least 22 colleges or universities have dropped football in the 90's, mostly for economic reasons. Officials at Boston University emphasize that Title IX, the Federal law mandating gender equity in school sports, was not behind its decision to close its program in 1997, as was frequently reported. It folded football because of lack of interest. In the final season, an average of 2,500 fans attended home games in the 13,000-seat Nickerson Field. Boston University, which played Division 1-AA, a higher level than Swarthmore, had just two winning seasons from 1985 to 1997, not enough for it to justify spending $3 million a year in scholarships and operational costs.
 Asked whether he missed football, Boston's athletic director, Gary Strickler, said, "Yes, I do personally, but I don't know that it's been a great void in our program, to be honest." There was a fervent and angry and small group of football supporters, but administrators say it has not remained a presence. The sport will not be back, or certainly not anytime soon.
 The trend is downward. According to the National Collegiate Athletic Association, its membership and the number of football teams is growing. But the rate of participation is declining. In 1956, 80 percent of member schools fielded a team. That percentage dipped to 70 percent by 1971, 63.1 percent by 1981 and 58.6 percent by 1997.
 Nonetheless, football has a huge psychic hold on America. Many campuses embrace it with zeal, and the resources of a Fortune 500 company. There is the old story about the college president who wants to have an institution the football team can be proud of.
 The University of Chicago, Fordham and Villanova gave up football and then started it anew. They decided something had been lost in campus life. And after 135 years of existence, little Bryant College, a business school in Rhode Island, decided to field its first team last year, hoping it might draw people onto campus in the fall and attract students.
Brian Bell, a wiry 6-foot-1, 190-pounder from Laurel, Del., had played in two state championship games in high school. He was recruited by the University of Delaware but worried that he might not have been first string until his senior year. He met a Swarthmore alumnus through an enrichment program in his hometown and is sure he chose the right college, but his love of football was sorely tested by the lack of success.
 In fall 1997, Swarthmore lost its first five games by margins of 56, 73, 49, 31 and 46 points, and Mr. Bell fought the urge to walk off the field. Then the Tide went to California to play Pomona-Pitzer, the team representing two of the prestigious Claremont colleges, and was beaten by 64 points.
 "People were making light of it, and that really hurt," said J. P. Harris, the quarterback. "We felt we were on our own. The school spits out a lot of rhetoric on excellence, but we didn't feel they were doing that on athletics.
 "Ultimately, losing was our fault. I'm never going to blame anybody else. If you look at it, playing ball is a full-time job, 30 hours a week. Nobody is holding a gun to your head, but we didn't feel that the effort was being reciprocated."
 There were just not enough football players coming in, and some already there were defecting. Feeling overmatched, at least seven quit. "Guys were doing a cost-benefit analysis about playing football," recalled Mr. Bell, now beginning a career with Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm. "I had to make a decision myself."
He added, "One thing I learned from football was commitment. These are the moments that define you. You started something. What are the messages you are sending to younger guys if you quit?"
 As the 1997 season ended with four more lopsided losses, the college's president, Alfred H. Bloom, considered ending the program. "If I had felt it was necessary, I could have recommended it," said Dr. Bloom, who said he had extremely limited experience with football.
 "The students came to me, disheartened," he said. "Football was not living up to their expectations. I spoke to several alums. It was clear to me that we would be in a better position to attract people if we had football, but Swarthmore was letting them down by not having an exciting program."
 The school acknowledged a general malaise among students, and found critics on the faculty.
 Barry Schwartz, a psychology professor and onetime associate provost, is knowledgeable about sports but skeptical about football's value.
 "The students are worried that the need for bodies on the team will skew the admissions process," he said, adding: "Diversity is a good thing. It's hard to sustain it if you need 75 people on the football team."
 One of the most eloquent defenders of the sport turned out to be Jennie Keith, the provost, a Quaker, an anthropologist and decidedly not a football fan. "We are an extraordinarily cerebral place, but there is a pitfall in going beyond cerebral to disdaining what is not of the brain," she said. "It is against the Quaker tradition to stereotype people. When people talk about football, I stop to remember that my brother played center in high school.
 "Football brings us some kids who would not have us on their radar screen," Dr. Keith added. "We do intellectual work, trying to understand life, but we need to combine this with some action in the more messy world."
 The players, quite naturally, felt threatened by even a debate. "They throw around the word 'diversity' and that applies to everybody but athletes," said Mr. Harris, a political science major from Derry, N.H., who will attend Catholic University Law School this fall. "Athletes are a minority here. You hear about 20 athletes being admitted, 10 percent, isn't that high? The implication is, Are you really worthy?"
 Mr. Harris rallied his teammates. He and several other players sought out Mr. Austrian, a member of the board. He reassured the players that trustees still wanted football. There was a consensus that the sport needed affirmation if it was to continue.
 After much discussion, the hierarchy did exactly the same thing big-time foundries do -- it removed the coach, Karl Miran, whose record was 25 victories, 51 losses and 1 tie.
 "This was very uncharacteristic of Swarthmore College," said Robert E. Williams, the athletic director. "We agonized over the decision, but if we were going to continue, we were going to have to bring in new leadership."
 The new coach was Peter Alvanos, 33, who had been an assistant at the University of Chicago. Impressing people with his energy, Mr. Alvanos, young, fiery and ambitious, was able to gain some perks Mr. Miran surely would have loved.
 Instead of two and a half coaching positions, Mr. Alvanos now has four (two of them doubling as track and field assistants), plus several part-timers. According to Mr. Williams, coaching costs are about $150,000 a year, close to double what they were two years ago.
 "Football is somewhat more expensive than other intercollegiate athletic programs at Swarthmore," said Dr. Keith. "That greater cost is one of the challenges in maintaining a football program here."
 For the 1997-98 school year, Swarthmore spent $47,116 for travel, equipment and to hire game officials -- roughly one-quarter the cost of all 12 men's teams. An undisclosed portion of $10.9 million in financial aid goes to players. There is no tangible revenue, as there is at universities that charge admission to games or have television income.
 Mr. Williams expects the upgraded program to become more expensive in the near future. The school has allocated $20,000 for a new look in uniforms and equipment -- a sore point to other campus teams. (Xiang Lan Zhou, 21, an engineering major who plays on the badminton team, complains about the struggle to get money for birdies.)
 "We've been playing football with under 40 student athletes," Mr. Williams said. "If this is successful, we'll have 65 to 70 athletes. That will mean more equipment, more beds, more food. Instead of one bus, we'll need a bus and a van. It doesn't just stop."
 Money, however, is only one factor in football success. The other is recruiting. At most colleges and universities, coaches shake their fists at the sacrosanct admissions office, telling horror stories of the brilliant blue-chip recruit who got away. Before Swarthmore's new coach was hired, the athletic director read him the facts of life: the only legitimate recruiting agent on campus is the admissions office.
 At Swarthmore, the new dean of admissions is Robin G. Mamlet, who worked at Occidental College, Pomona and Sarah Lawrence without gaining much feel for football. "You listen to the voices of the institution, and they come from different places," Ms. Mamlet said. "We've always been proud of an engineering degree at a liberal arts college. That's a voice. The football voice? That is nebulous."
 When they began talking about the future of football, Ms. Mamlet said, "we asked, 'What is our responsibility?' " The answer was: "At least make it moderately safe" -- meaning enough bodies so the players would not be overwhelmed and exhausted.
 The goal was to start each season with 65 to 75 players, to account for practice, backup for injuries and attrition. The hope was that there would be 20 bona fide players among the 180 young men accepted each year, about 10 percent.
 "That is significant," Ms. Mamlet said. "That gets your attention."
 Before the school year ended in 1998, Mr. Alvanos assembled the players who would be returning in the fall.
 "I will never forget his first words," said Mr. Harris, then going into his senior year. "He said, 'Take off your hats and sit up straight!' The room fell dead silent, and that's when I knew things were going to be different." (As it happens, those were pretty much the first words of Lou Holtz when he began his epic regime at Notre Dame.)
 "I've never seen guys work out so hard," the quarterback said. "I didn't think we were any more gifted, but the improvement was attitude."
 Mr. Alvanos began involving the community, asking a marching band from a local high school to play, and invited faculty members to be his assistant for a game. Ms. Mamlet was on the sideline for a wrenching 21-13 loss to Ursinus.
 "These are kids I know," Ms. Mamlet said. "I admitted them. I was watching them do something that turned out unsuccessfully, but there was so much drama when the coach sent them out there. It made me realize even more that athletics have their place, to watch our kids having fun, pouring their hearts into something physical."
 When a dubious pass interference call set up a last-minute winning touchdown by Franklin and Marshall College, they railed against the officials with uncharacteristic volume and language that would have been appropriate at a Philadelphia Eagles game.
 Mr. Alvanos's final 1998 record was eight straight losses, but Mr. Bell called the season "awesome."
 At football powerhouses, on the morning after the last game, coaches fan out all over the continent in search of new behemoths, trying to charm the mothers and fathers of prospective recruits. Mr. Williams, who began his coaching career at Rutgers University, said with a chuckle: "You can't really call what we do recruiting." Mr. Alvanos and his assistants tend to travel by car three to four hours from campus. For the rest of the country, they rely on recommendations, with candidates visiting campus on their own.
 Mr. Alvanos said he does not even begin to recruit a player unless he has an SAT score of 1250. Ms. Mamlet said 1300 sounds a bit more like it. She said the median SAT score at Swarthmore is 1440, and though there is slight leeway for students with special skills or gifts, football players fall within the norm, in potential as well as in performance.
 "The final call is hers, and we respect that," Mr. Alvanos said. "If she says, 'Coach, you're wasting your time,' we're going to cut him loose. If she says, 'Coach, this one looks good,' we go after him."
 Mr. Alvanos is delighted to have recruited, by long distance, a couple of backs who were sought by rival schools, as well as two offensive linemen from the South, both around 6 feet 3, 265 pounds.
 "Harvard has proven to me, personally, that football can be played at every top-notch institution in America, if they do it within the philosophy of that college," Mr. Alvanos said. "We didn't come here to make football bigger than the college. It's an outlet for the kids, a way to let their hair down, let their minds be at peace for two hours at practice, get rid of frustration or anxiety. Some people go for walks, some people read books to relax, these kids come here to play football."
 If there is value to the participants, what is the value to the campus?
 Community building is the rationale for football at many colleges. You hear it everywhere, including here. "Look at it this way," Mr. Alvanos said. "The only sport I know that has homecoming is football, and that happens in the fall. It sets the tone for the academic year. It brings people together. A Saturday afternoon of enjoyment -- if you win, anyway."
 Dr. Bloom was asked whether he could see himself pulling the plug on football somewhere down the line.
 "This is not yet the time to talk about it," he said. "This is still an experiment. I have full confidence it will succeed."
 Swarthmore's new season begins Sept. 4, when it matches its 28-game winless streak against Oberlin of Ohio. Oberlin has not won in 19 straight games (following a previous 40-game streak). Something has to give.
 The classic definition of football comes from Vince Lombardi of Green Bay Packer fame: "Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing."
Swarthmore's version comes from Dr. Keith (who has indeed heard of Vince Lombardi): Winning isn't everything -- but it is certainly something."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The agony: Peter Alvanos, the new coach at Swarthmore College, as a last-second decision cost his team its only chance at a victory during the 1998 season. (Jim Graham); Brian Bell was so discouraged he wanted to quit. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); Success has not been immediate for the Garnet Tide. (Jim Graham); There was so much drama when the coach sent them out there," said Robin G. Mamlet, dean of admissions. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); Peter Alvanos, right, at a team meeting. His first words as the coach were, "Take off your hats and sit up straight!" It was a sign things were going to be different. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); No pain, no gain: Stretching in the preseason. (Jim Graham); From left: Jon Bartner, J. P. Harris and Tony Hillery, all football players. Some team members felt threatened by the debate about the sport. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SWARTHMORE COLLEGE SWARTHMORE COLLEGE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWARTHMORE COLLEGE SWARTHMORE COLLEGE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGE ATHLETICS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); RELIGION (67%); ALUMNI (50%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE BRIAN D BELL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



11 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 13; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Blackboard: Curricula Esoterica;
Doctors, Soldiers, Serial Killers

BYLINE: By Abby Ellin 

 BODY:
How do you get students excited about potential snoozers like the politics of war, the American judicial system or myocardial infarctions? Traditional lectures and textbooks don't seem to cut it anymore. Today's teaching approach is pedagogically offbeat. As they say on "ER," intubate, Brutus.
 
"The Biology of 'ER' "
Purdue University,
West Lafayette, Ind. 
 Prof. Edward Simon believes that television shows come in two categories: those that make you smart and those that make you dumb. "ER," he believes, holds rank among the smart set. Students enrolled in "The Biology of 'ER,' " most of whom are premed, watch a different episode each class and talk about the medical and biological aspects of the series. "The program raises questions of safe sex, AIDS in the workplace, cancer treatments versus death with dignity, the ethics of drug trials, euthanasia and medical economics," said Dr. Simon, a biologist. "It also depicts the trials and tribulations of medical education. Students learn so much from it."
 
"The Politics and History
of the Vietnam War"
Barat College, Lake Forest, Ill.
 Students liken Robert P. Arnoldt, an adjunct professor in the history department, and James J. Brask, chairman of the political science department, to Siskel and Ebert. The men, both Vietnam veterans who team-teach the course, argue with each other in class and present their very different experiences of the war. "He was drafted and went in when the war had become a political football game, whereas I volunteered to go in and kill Communists," said Professor Arnoldt. "When we teach we teach from these kinds of views." Students, mostly upperclassmen, also get to handle "props" like defused hand grenades. "This year they took what they learned in class and applied it to the situation in Serbia," he said. "They started questioning whether we should send in ground troops, examining the mistakes in Vietnam and applying them. That's what history and political science are supposed to be."
 
"The American Jury"
Newman University, Wichita, Kan.
 O. J. Simpson and Jesus Christ have both been tried in this undergraduate class, which examines the decision-making skills and critical thinking required of jury service. Taught by Robert Beattie, a lawyer, the class reviews prosecution and defense records of notorious cases and stages mock trials. This fall, Lee Harvey Oswald and Charles Manson will be tried. Mr. Beattie wrote to Mr. Manson, who is serving a life sentence for the slaying of the actress Sharon Tate and six others in 1969. Mr. Manson called Mr. Beattie from prison, and agreed to hours of taped interviews. Mr. Manson was eager to defend himself, Mr. Beattie said. Mr. Simpson, who also got a letter, didn't respond.
 
"Introduction to Business"
Lehigh University,
Bethlehem, Pa.
 As a dry run-through in product conception and development, student teams in the College of Business and Economics devise ideas for new lines of Nike products. Past highlights: Nike lingerie, Swoosh magazine, Smart sock (a sock with a pocket), Player's Club (a theme-cafe franchise), the Tracker (an electric odometer attached to an athlete's shoe) and Nike Fuel, a sports drink. "Nike is a company students can identify with," said Prof. Karen Collins. "It's a brand name they like." Winners of the competition for the best business plan earn a trip to Nike in New York. Abby Ellin
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The medical role models of "E.R." (NBC); Charles Manson in 1970. (United Press International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ER (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (79%); VIET NAM (70%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (57%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (57%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (79%); VIET NAM (70%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TELEVISION; JURY SYSTEM STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MURDER (90%); CURRICULA (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); HOMICIDE (88%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); HISTORY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (75%); AIDS & HIV (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); VETERANS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); SENTENCING (73%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (73%); DEATH & DYING (69%); ETHICS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); CANCER (68%); JURY DUTY (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY EDWARD D SIMON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



12 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 14; Column 3; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Blackboard: Finance;
How to Be a Millionaire

BYLINE: By Abby Ellin 

 BODY:
A penny saved is a penny earned, but a penny invested could mean the difference between early retirement and hard labor. The sooner a child learns this, the better.
 So believes Bruce M. Levine, a lawyer who teaches investment strategies to fifth graders at the Donna Klein Academy, a private school in Boca Raton, Fla. "A kid who invests $50 a month in an equity mutual fund and throws in some of his birthday and holiday money and then funds $2,000 a year into an IRA, invested the same way, is likely to have over $2.4 million by age 65," said Mr. Levine. "My kids understand the power of compounding over the long haul, the long-term benefits of diversifying and the stupidity of buying and selling frequently because of the risks and costs." 
 His students also learn how time, money and rate of interest affect financial goals; the advantages and disadvantages of mutual funds, and the relationship between risk and reward. They study words most adults don't even comprehend: net asset value, dividends, capital gains and losses, dollar-cost averaging. And since they're still fifth graders, they get to write songs, stories and cartoons about the concepts.
 The curriculum is based on one developed by the National Endowment for Financial Education in Denver, now being taught in some 11,000 schools nationwide.
 But only 14 states require personal finance at some grade level. Last year, the Jumpstart Coalition, a group of nonprofit organizations concerned with financial literacy, tested 1,500 high-school students. The average score was a dismal 57 percent. Most students didn't know what the stock market was -- which explains why Mr. Levine thinks 8- and 9-year-olds should start preparing for the future. "It's criminal," he said, "to deny our youth road maps to financial security." ABBY ELLIN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce M. Levine explains investment principles to fifth graders. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CURRICULA (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BONDS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); SONG WRITING (51%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY; LEVINE, BRUCE M BRUCE M LEVINE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



13 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1875 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Mystic

BYLINE: By ERIK SANDBERG-DIMENT; ERIK SANDBERG-DIMENT lives in eastern Connecticut.

 BODY:
Mystic is a village divided, many times a day, by a bridge. When the bell rings, its staccato clapper often accompanied by a toot or two from approaching boats, the classic bascule bridge across the Mystic River rises to let boats through and traffic on Main Street, vehicular and pedestrian, comes to a stop.
Conveniently in summer, if you're on the western shore of the river when the bridge lifts, there's Mystic Drawbridge Ice Cream and, down the other side of the street, Mystic Ice Cream and Sweets Shoppe. The surrounding coast is the historic heartland of nautical Connecticut, the ports of New London, Mystic and Stonington. All three were major forces in the whaling, sealing, shipping and privateering industries of the 1800's and together formed the economic mainspring of the region. 
 The nautical theme carries on. Whales, this time belugas -- agile, gray 2,700-to-3,500-pound living torpedoes -- cavort at Mystic Aquarium's new Alaskan Coast exhibit. Home for these belugas is an 800,000-gallon rock-furnished tank, with below-water viewing. Also new is the Institute for Exploration's interactive oceanographic exhibition, Challenge of the Deep, assembled by Robert D. Ballard, discoverer of the Titanic's wreck.
Mystic Seaport -- the splendid 17-acre re-creation of the 19th-century harborside village -- remains a living time capsule that carries the visitor back more than a century in maritime history. Many of its nearly 500 vessels are on display, as is a reproduction in the making of the Amistad, the 19th-century slave ship.
On a different -- though still historical -- note, the Mashantucket Pequot Museum, outside Ledyard, is completing a showcase for the history of the Connecticut tribe whose Foxwoods casino has made millionaires of its 550 members.
 
Events
The Mystic Outdoor Art Festival, in its 42d year, more or less takes over the town on Aug. 14 and 15. More than 300 artists are scheduled to display their talents from 10 A.M. to 7 P.M., mostly on Main Street (Route 1). There will also be live music in the Mystic River Park. For information, call the Chamber of Commerce, (860) 572-5098.
Think Mystic Seaport, and tall ships with billowing sails come to mind. Yet marine engines are not without charm. At the Seaport's eighth-annual Antique Marine Engine Exposition, Aug. 21 and 22, collectors from across North America will demonstrate about 200 pre-1950's engines; there will be boat parades at 2 P.M. on both days on the river; (888) 973-2767.
Also on Aug. 21 and 22, Adam's Garlic Fest will feature garlic lectures, lore and fare, a farmers' market and live music. It takes place at Adam's Garden of Eden, 360 North Anguilla Road, Pawcatuck, a 10-minute drive from Mystic, (860) 599-4241. Hours: 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Free.
At the Denison Pequotsepos Nature Center in Stonington, the hike of the month starts at 6 P.M. on Aug. 25. It is a four-mile walk at Barn Island preserve in Pawcatuck to explore rolling terrain, birds and other wildlife at dusk. Free; call (860) 536-1216 to register.
Restaurants from across the state come to downtown Mystic Sept. 10 to 12 for the Taste of Connecticut Food Festival. Thirty restaurants will offer international cuisine for sale. There also will be music and other entertainment, along with local beer and wine. The fair runs from 5 to 10 P.M. Sept. 10, 11 A.M. to 10 P.M. Sept. 11 and 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sept. 12. Information: (860) 536-3575.
 
Sightseeing
When friends from Europe visit, we usually end up taking at least an evening stroll through one of the area's casinos built on Indian reservations -- Foxwoods, off Route 2 between Interstate 95 and Route 2A, (800) 752-9244, or the Mohegan Sun, off I-395, Exit 79A, (888) 226-7711.
Next to Foxwoods is the Mashantucket Pequot Museum, 110 Pequot Trail, (800) 411-9671. The museum's main draw is a reproduction of a 16th-century Pequot village, complete with surprisingly realistic life-size figures. Sound stations throughout the village provide concise, informative tales of life in the community.
Admission is $10, $8 for ages 55 and up, and $6 for children 6 to 15. Open daily 10 A.M. to 7 P.M. through Labor Day, then 10 A.M. to 6 P.M., except Tuesday, the rest of the year.
The museum also offers free garden tours on weekends through August and a tour of five archeological sites on the reservation every Tuesday in August and on Thursday and Saturday in September. These last two hours and start at 10 A.M. or 4 P.M., depending on the day. The cost is $6, and reservations are required from (860) 396-6981.
In Mystic itself, the Seaport, on Route 27, (888) 973-2767, has an unsurpassed collection of vessels from the 1840's to the 1930's. Most are smaller wooden sailing, paddling and rowing craft but there are also ships like the the L. A. Dunton, a 123-foot Gloucester fishing schooner. The full-size reproduction of the 129-foot schooner Amistad under construction in the museum shipyard is expected to be launched next year. She is to make her maiden voyage in a tall ships parade in New York Harbor next July 4. Mystic Seaport is open daily 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission is $16, $15 for 62 and older, and $8 ages 6 to 12.
At the Mystic Aquarium, 55 Coogan Boulevard, Exit 90 of I-95, (860) 572-5955, you'll find Steller sea lions -- the largest of these mammals -- in the Alaskan Coast exhibit, as well as the beluga whales. Also this summer, naturalists wend their way around the re-created Alaskan coast with red-tailed hawks, screech owls and other species on their arms.
The Challenge of the Deep exhibit follows a trend toward interactive multimedia display. Most of the displays take the form of robotic exploration. One is the R.O.V. Manipulation Arm, a remote-controlled device used to pick up and move undersea objects, like artifacts, seen on a video screen. The aquarium is open daily 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $15, $14 for age 59 and up, and $10 ages 3 to 12.
Among the historic houses in the area are Palmer House and the Old Lighthouse Museum in Stonington, both run by the Stonington Historical Society. Admission to each is $4, children 6 to 12, $2; a ticket to both museums is $6 or $3 for children.
The lighthouse, at the tip of the Stonington peninsula, (860) 535-1440, is open 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. daily in July and August, closed Monday other months. The museum in the granite tower is not so much about lighthouses as about whaling, sealing, farming and general life in Stonington in centuries past. And, yes, you can climb up into the tower.
The Capt. Nathaniel Brown Palmer House, on Route 1A in Stonington, (860) 535-8445, also provides a good climbing experience. During the house tour, visitors take a winding staircase to the octagonal widow's walk atop the building. Palmer, an early Antarctic explorer and the original inhabitant of this 16-room Victorian mansion, built the house with his brother Alexander, also a ship captain. Inside are family memorabilia and nautical artifacts. Open 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Closed Monday.
 
Where to Stay
It can be difficult to find a place to stay on summer weekends, and a two-night minimum stay is often required then.
Among the many B &B's in the area is Brigadoon, 180 Cow Hill Road, a little over a mile from the Mystic village center, (860) 536-3033, www.brigadoonofmystic.com. It has eight rooms, all with private bath, in a cozy 250-year-old farmhouse. Besides a country breakfast, tea and pastries are served in the afternoon, wine in the evening. A double room is $105 to $115 weekdays, $125 to $150 Friday through Sunday, the higher rate for the Rose Cottage.
Harbour Inne and Cottage, on the river at 15 Edgemont Street, (860) 572-9253, www.harbourinne-cottage .com, has six rooms plus a cottage with outdoor hot tub, and accepts pets. A double is $95 to $135, the cottage $175 to $250.
In Old Mystic, the village north of Mystic itself, the Old Mystic Inn, 52 Main Street, (860) 572-9422, www .visitmystic.com/oldmysticinn, offers eight rooms in an old carriage house as well as the main building. There are peaceful gardens and the various rooms have canopy beds, fireplaces or whirlpool tubs. A double is $125 to $155.
Budget: Old Mystic Motor Lodge, just off Exit 90 of I-95, (860) 536-9666, www.visitmystic.com/omml, has 56 rooms, all with a microwave and a small refrigerator. Doubles are $109 to $159.
Luxury: It doesn't get any more nautical than the Steamboat Inn, 73 Steamboat Wharf, next to the drawbridge, (860) 536-8300, on the Web at www.visitmystic.com/steamboat. The 10 elegant rooms of the Steamboat Inn, four with wet bars, and all with whirlpool bath, overlook the river. Doubles are $180 to $265.
Adding a new meaning to B & B, there's the Kittiwake, a 57-foot 1966 Chris-Craft that is a boat-and-breakfast, (203) 686-1616. Moored upriver from the bridge in Mystic, this air-conditioned vessel has two staterooms, $150 and $165; no credit cards. Breakfast on deck, anyone?
 
Where to Eat
The quarter-millennium-old Capt. Daniel Packer Inne, 32 Water Street, Mystic, (860) 536-3555, is still in the hands of the Packer family and their descendants. Completely restored, with the old fireplaces and many of the exposed wooden structural details preserved, the restaurant features a lively tap room downstairs and memorable dining upstairs. The blackened colossal sea scallops and Thai lemongrass sea scallops with vegetable dumplings (both $7.50) are tasty appetizers. Entrees range from Maryland soft-shell crab ($17.95) to stuffed lobster ($22) to porterhouse steak with fresh oyster mushrooms and Bermuda onion ($22).
What makes Abbott's, 117 Pearl Street, Noank, (860) 536-7719, so appealing is its setting -- picnic tables set among lobster traps with a view of the island-dotted bay and moored sailboats. The whole deal -- chowder, shrimp in the shell, steamed clams and mussels with melted butter and a 1 1/8-pound lobster with coleslaw and chips -- runs $21.95. The signs -- "Beware! Seagulls Steal Meals. Do Not Leave Table Unattended" -- mean what they say. No alcohol served, but you can bring your own.
For lighter fare and smaller crowds, try Kitchen Little, overlooking the river on Route 27 just north of Mystic Seaport, (860) 536-2122. In addition to seafood lunches, it offers 45 different breakfasts. Typical are the Portuguese Fisherman (scrambled eggs, chourica and linguica sausage, peppers, onions and a zesty sauce) and the Mystic Melt (scrambled eggs with crabmeat and cream cheese), each under $6. Open 6:30 A.M. to 2 P.M., till 1 on weekends.
The Olympia Tea Room, about 20 minutes (or more, depending on summer traffic) from Mystic at 74 Bay Street, Watch Hill, R.I., (401) 348-8211, still has the casual atmosphere of its former ice-cream-parlor days. Favorites are fish and chips ($9.95) and littlenecks and sausage over linguini ($15.95). Dinners there often end with the Avondale swan, an ice-cream-filled cream puff ($5).
For a more formal meal, Three Fish, 37 Main Street (Route 1), Westerly, R.I., (401) 348-9700, offers such appetizers as yellowfin tuna sashimi spring rolls with wasabi cream ($12) and entrees like pan-seared Stonington sea scallops ($18). Even the butter comes in a fish shape.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reproduction of a 16th-century Pequot village at the Mashantucket Pequot Museum. A beluga whale at Mystic Aquarium's Alaskan Coast exhibit. The main dining room at the Capt. Daniel Packer Inne, dating to 1754. (Photographs by Robert Rattner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Mystic. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Mystic Chamber of Commerce, Northeast Regional Climate Center, local businesses)
 
Map of Mystic showing points of interest and tourist attractions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ALASKA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARINE MAMMALS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); SAILING (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); HISTORY (75%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



14 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1871 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Glorifying Governments Is Also an Art

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ALL governments engage in, even require, propaganda to reinforce their authority and disseminate their policies. Made by human beings, governments naturally like to look good. They show distinct preferences for glory, no matter what their actual circumstances. So the powers that be build monuments, put victory and liberty on coins, establish patriotic celebrations, fabricate myths.
The word propaganda comes from the Latin phrase for propagating the Christian faith; it acquired a generally pejorative sense only in World War I, when governments took strict control of war information that could be used in the mass media. Long before, every medium that could spread ideologies or enhance renown and power had been called upon to do so. Popes and kings and dictators commissioned architecture, sculpture and painting, enlisted playwrights and speakers, and hired designers to shape the ruler's image and fashion the servants' livery as well as the military's uniforms. When photography came along, it, too, was soon pressed into service. French and British royalty in the mid-19th century started by posing with their families so that their subjects might feel a certain warmth of kinship with their emperors and queens. 
 During the technical peace of the 1930's, Germany, the Soviet Union and the United States took the uses of propaganda, beneficent or otherwise, to new levels. Two major -- one might even say resounding -- governmental photographic programs in that decade are explored and compared in "Propaganda and Dreams: Photographing the 1930's in the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.," at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington through Oct. 3. Here, even the dreams look like propaganda.
This enormous and instructive show of 232 images, including a few posters and photographically illustrated books and magazines, is accompanied by a catalogue written by the curator, Leah Bendavid-Val. The exhibition offers some previously unknown photographs from both countries as well as such revealing items as a second version of Alexander Rodchenko's well-known "Pioneer Girl" and a variant of Dorothea Lange's picture of a migrant worker's wife with her hand to her head, apparently more posed than candid. These reminders of photographers' ways of working hint at how artfully constructed and determinedly willed was the persuasiveness of their images.
Lenin, who regarded art as an educational tool, called for central Government oversight of all kinds of information. The Soviet system aimed not only at educating the illiterate masses but also at reconstituting humanity by creating a new and more harmonious individual, a project that could be furthered by keeping examples before the public's eyes. All published and professional photography was essentially Soviet Government photography, as the Government controlled all publications. At one point, photographers were ordered to hand over their negatives so they could not be used commercially. Nonetheless, Ms. Bendavid-Val says, many images and even negatives were returned to their makers, and what the Government did keep was neither organized nor well cared for.
The United States had plenty of non-Governmental photographers, but the Farm Security Administration, one of the most prominent, discerning and important photographic employers of the 1930's, was of, by and for the Government. The F.S.A. was established to rally support for New Deal programs to help farmers. Roy Stryker, the head of the agency, ordered photographers to hand over their negatives, and did not return them. (Walker Evans, unhappy with the arrangement, took two pictures of everything and sent in only one.) Stryker took complete charge of the photographs he received, even punching holes in negatives he did not like. He made great efforts to get these free-of-charge pictures published and displayed, and he preserved the archive, which is now in the Library of Congress and making its way onto the Web.
So both Governments were engaged in large-scale photographic projects meant to promote their ideas and programs. The subjects were sometimes similar -- farmers, children, interiors, daily life, some industry, some urban environments -- but the press releases for "Propaganda and Dreams" -- and on a couple of occasions the show itself -- mistake this for stylistic similarity. Both subjects and styles reflect the different histories of the two nations, something about their different goals, a lot about their different circumstances in the 1930's.
The Soviet work owes a great deal to Rodchenko's experiments in the creation of a new vision by means of vertiginous views, close-ups and dislocations. By the 1930's, after Russia and the Communists had revolutionized art as well as government, the Soviets forced the art genie back into the bottle, but they never quite convinced photographers to abandon their discoveries. Many photographers made straightforward documentary pictures of the approved type, but the esthetically daring, disjunctive style, replete with bold diagonals and sudden changes of scale, never died out altogether. Rodchenko was accused of excessive foreign influence and discredited. Men like Boris Ignatovich, who continued along related formalist paths, were not persecuted, merely ignored. Despite the utopianism of believing that they could change the very way people saw, despite images that today look very strong, Ignatovich and others like him seldom got published, yet they did not renounce their vision.
Modernism in American photography had a wholly different tone and derivation from most European and Russian modernism: it tended to be flat, planar, tangentially cubist and constructivist. And though it was the Soviet administration that decreed an end to extravagant modernist experiments and a return to a simpler, less stylized presentation, it was America that accepted the directive without even being aware of it. The plainspoken approach was valued here as a token of honesty. American documentary remained stylistically restrained, partly to distinguish itself from the crowd-pleasing blandishments of commercial work.
Walker Evans was not alone in the 1930's in centering his subjects in the middle distance and keeping them strictly parallel to the picture plane, nor are there many flourishes in the work of Lange, Russell Lee or Arthur Rothstein. The photographers' very styles were meant to say: "We are compassionate but neutral. What we show you is the unvarnished truth, uncontaminated by the prejudices of art and personality that creep into magazines like Life and Look." If the Soviet belief in the new man and woman was strengthened by radical ways of seeing, the American documentary style was a kind of visual equivalent to the homely, log-cabin character of Honest Abe.
WHEN the photographs are visually similar, the similarities are often superficial. Even though the two countries shared a faith in the potential of government to improve the lot of the citizenry, even though both believed in the redemptive power of machinery, even though the photographers were equally convinced that their imagery could influence social change, the historical differences were overwhelming.
The U.S.S.R. was at last barreling into the 20th century in the 1930's on tractors and electric lines; the United States had been industrialized for nearly a century. The Soviet Union was supposedly at the beginning of a glorious future; the economic problems of the United States struck many as the end to an entire system. The Soviets were fashioning a collective society; Americans pinned their hopes on the individual. The Soviet pictures are robust, full of hope, dynamic. The American pictures, supposedly about the will to overcome, are frequently sad, forlorn, empty and arid: the image of people who know they are in trouble, as opposed to the Soviet image of people who are determined to believe they are not.
Art journals in recent years have repeatedly criticized the Farm Security Administration and its photographers for being agents of Federal Government propaganda, a criticism that ironically recaps political complaints about the program by President Franklin D. Roosevelt's opponents in the 1930's. Critics today also accuse the photographers of exploiting their indigent subjects, an objection that goes to the heart of recent doubts about documentary practice.
MS. BENDAVID-VAL repeatedly and properly points out that photographers, editors and publishers in both America and the Soviet Union believed in the rightness of their cause and the usefulness and appropriateness of what they were doing. By definition agents of Government propaganda, they were also acting on their own beliefs, for they shared the political faith in reform and progress.
Besides, the Soviets approved of propaganda as education and understood that the greatest persuasive enterprise in America was not the Farm Security Administration but advertising, from which they hoped to learn some valuable lessons. American critics have further objected to the F.S.A.'s project as a kind of Government advertising, which it was, and it may not seem as benevolent today as it did to photographers then. But unlike most advertising, it did include critiques of the American system, particularly of racial segregation.
Even in the 1930's, some American photographers had doubts about taking advantage of disadvantaged subjects (or at least about other photographers' doing so), but times were different, and both photographers and subjects expected that the subjects would benefit from these pictures. And sometimes they did.
What is astonishing is that Soviet photographers, and Soviet citizens generally, apparently continued to believe in their cause in the face of mounting hunger, executions and brutal repression. Ms. Bendavid-Val writes: "In the U.S.S.R., citizens went hungry and endured slave labor to build Soviet industry, witnessed purges and terror in the name of it, and still they believed they were better off than the rest of the world, that they belonged to the world's most prosperous, free and classless society. These attitudes, bringing into question the very notion of belief, influenced the course of history." This is, of course, one of the great tragedies of this century, that so many people have suffered in the name of the betterment of humankind.
The bizarre disconnects of the Soviet photo enterprise take on a different coloration when seen in the light of such beliefs. Photographers praised collective farming long after Stalin engineered a famine to kill off thousands upon thousands of farmers who resisted collectivization. Rodchenko's first-rate picture essay on the building of the White Sea Canal, part of which is on view at the Corcoran, in the pages of that remarkable magazine "U.S.S.R. in Construction," is a dynamic view of an industrial triumph that cost more than 250,000 lives, a fact that Rodchenko could not have missed. Evidently, he rationalized conscripted labor and death as the necessary costs of progress, to which his best efforts of description could also make a contribution. The road to hell is paved with good intentions, and sometimes with good photographs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dramatic images of a Soviet commune's workers in 1931 (Arcady Shishkin) and of Tennessee Valley Authority workers in 1942. (Howard Greenberg Gallery) Both are in "Propaganda and Dreams," a show at the Corcoran Gallery. A Soviet construction worker helping to build the Dnepro-Buhg Canal in 1940.
(Yevegeny Khaldei)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (55%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FARM SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FARM SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (55%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); SCULPTURE (74%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); WRITERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); WORLD WAR I (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); BRITISH ROYALTY (69%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); RELIGION (56%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER RODCHENKO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



15 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Hotel Developers Cut Expansion Plans, Shift Focus

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
PINCHED by tighter financing and a modest decline in occupancy rates hotel developers and operators are trimming their visions of building new lodgings in New Jersey.
But since the economy is strong and room rates continue to inch up they are peeling back, not eliminating, construction plans. While the focus in the recent past was on building extended-stay and limited-service hotels, attention is now shifting to full-service lodgings. 
 Developers have completed, begun, or will soon begin work on 18 hotel projects, both new construction and expansions of existing hotels. In all, 2,400 rooms will be produced in the next 18 months, nearly half the number of rooms that were planned last year, according to CB Richard Ellis, the national commercial brokerage, which tracks the hotel industry.
In the nation, as in New Jersey, the industry "is still healthy, but it is a quieter time" for development, said Patrick Ford Sr., president of Lodging Econometrics, a division of National Hotel Realty, in Portsmouth, N.H., which specializes in development trends. Mr. Ford traces the slowdown to last fall's temporary tightening of credit, which resulted from the financial turmoil in South America, East Asia and Russia.
Financing has since become more available, "but it's nowhere near the levels it had been," he said, adding that underwriting requirements "are more stringent and lenders are more selective."
Gregg Delany, vice president of the Lodging and Hospitality Services Group at CB Richard Ellis's Manhattan office, said because of the proliferation of limited-service and extended-stay hotels lenders are "unwilling to aggressively finance such projects." He said they favor full-service hotels, for which "there is a shortage of supply and an increase in demand."
Eight of the hotels involved in this round of development in the state are full-service hotels and 10 are limited- or extended-stay lodgings. The latter, said Mr.Delany, would have been higher "if the more conservative capital market did not curtail their production."
John A. Fox, senior vice president at PKF, a hotel and real estate consulting firm in Manhattan, considers the construction slowdown good news. "It will," he said, "prevent the industry from entering an overbuilding situation."
Other factors that will keep the industry on a even keel, analysts said, are the influx of firms expanding within or relocating to New Jersey, where a spate of office buildings have been or are being built. Business travel, they added, remains relatively steady.
Over the last 12 months ending in May the occupancy rate in New Jersey hotels was 68.7 percent, down 2 percent from the previous like period, according to Smith Travel Research in Hendersonville, Tenn. Nationally, the rate was 63.7 percent, relatively unchanged from the year before. At the same time the average daily room rate in New Jersey hotels increased by 4.5 percent to $91.70; in the nation it rose by 3.8 percent to $79.15.
Robert Bowers, vice president at Smith Travel Research, said if the supply continues to tighten and the economy remains favorable, "occupancy rates should firm again or inch up in the year 2000." Room rates will continue to rise, but not as fast as they have in the last 24 months, Mr. Delany added.
MEANWHILE, construction continues, only now "where and what kind of hotel is being built" takes on added significance, Mr. Fox said.
Among the hot markets in New Jersey is the Hudson River waterfront, particularly in Jersey City, where one hotel is under way and two more are planned. Work began in May on 187-room Marriott Courtyard Hotel, the first hostelry at the 600-acre Newport mixed-use center at the northern end of the city's riverfront. The $25 million hotel is being done by the Lefrak Organization of Rego Park Queens, Newport's developer. Melvin Simon Associates, a shopping center developer in Indianapolis, is an equity partner.
"Hotels were always part of the Newport master plan," said Richard LeFrak, president of the company bearing his name. "But there needed to be a critical mass to support one and now it has been reached." He was referring to the millions of square feet of occupied offices and thousands of housing units on the city's riverfront (there are two million square feet of office space and 4,000 residences in Newport alone). And more than two million additional square feet of offices are expected to be built on the riverfront in the next two years.
When completed next spring, the hotel will join the 199-suite Club Hotel & Suites by Doubletree that opened last year at the corner of Washington Boulevard and Sixth Street. Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus and Garden State Development of Jersey City, which developed the hotel, say it is performing well, but decline to release occupancy figures. . Daily room rates start at $169.
"Its performance is indicative of the waterfront's latent potential," said Robert S. Deeley, regional vice president of lodging and development at Marriott. And given the Newport hotel's location, across the street from a PATH station with access to Manhattan, he said, and Mr. LeFrak agreed, it will benefit from a spillover of demand from firms across the river looking for a less expensive alternative. Daily room rates have yet to be set.
Mr. LeFrak said his company had plans for a full-service hotel, with up to 400 rooms, and was in discussions with Marriott to operate it.
At its Harborside office complex at the waterfront's southern end, Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust based in Cranford, has begun site work to develop, in a joint venture with Hyatt Hotels Corporation, a 350-room hotel on a pier. "There are now no full-service hotels, and it would be hard to replicate one like this," said Mitchell E. Hersh, chief executive at Mack-Cali. He said the $90 million hotel would "be reinforced" by his company's construction of a 185,000-square-foot office building at Harborside for Waterhouse Securities, the discount brokerage.
And on the waterfront in Weehawken, Hartz expanded by 108 rooms the 262-room former Ramada Inn Suites hotel at its Lincoln-Harbor mixed-used complex and opened it last month as a Sheraton, with daily room rates starting at $169.
Mr. Ford of Lodging Econometrics said there was also more attention these days on urban downtown hotels, some of which are being built with public funds.
That is the case in downtown Trenton, where the city plans to build a 200-room hotel and conference center with a 600-car garage at Lafayette and Warren Streets. The hotel will be connected to the Trenton War Memorial, a historic landmark.
The $50-million project will be financed mostly by the sale of bonds. James Harveson, acting director of the state's Department of Housing and Development, said the bonds would be sold this fall; construction of the hotel, which Marriott will operate, will follow.
Suburban markets with large pools of corporate tenants are also attracting development. One is Woodbridge in Middlesex County, where Inn Hospitality of Iselin, for example, has recently expanded and is now renovating the 300-room Sheraton it owns at Route 1 and Gill Lane, which is linked to a 100,000-square-foot office building.
With the 100-room addition to open this week, work is to begin on refurbishing the hotel's facade and common areas, said Dorothy Zarnik, a partner at Aztec Architects, of Iselin, which is designing the renovation. After completion of that work, which is to cost between $2 million and $3 million, the existing rooms will be redone, she said, noting that the renovation is needed "to remain competitive." Daily room rates are $160
Prime Hospitality Corporation of Fairfield, which last year announced it was slowing down construction, has resumed its activity on a limited basis with a focus on AmeriSuites hotels, its short-stay concept. The company opened one with 126 rooms on Route 4 in Fair Lawn in January and is not now planning any new ones in the state, said Terry O'Leary, vice president of franchise sales and development. But, he said, franchisees are planning to build three in Parsippany, Fort Lee and New Brunswick.
By October, he said, his company will invest $2 million to renovate and convert a 149-room Howard Johnson on Route 23 and Ratzer Road in Wayne to a Wellesley Inns and Suites. "We're not adding new rooms, just better ones," he said, noting that daily room rates range from $85 to $125.
Mr. Deeley of Marriott said his company had 12 limited-service hotels planned in the state, including one each in Parsippany and Bernards Township. Those hotels, which include its moderately priced Courtyard and Residence Inn concepts, will have 120 to 200 rooms each.
"We still see opportunities in locations where a new supply of rooms is warranted," Mr. Deeley said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of 350-room hotel on a pier at Harborside Financial Center, which Mack-Cali is to build with Hyatt. (Mack-Cali Realty Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (75%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE GREGG DELANY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



16 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Court Rulings Trouble Housing Advocates

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
THREE recent court decisions upholding rejections of moderate-income housing projects have rattled supporters of Connecticut's Affordable Housing Law.
They fear that the 10-year-old law, which has prevailed in the majority of court challenges until now, is vulnerable in cases based on concerns for potable water sources, open space and septic systems, which were not as intense a decade ago. 
 Now towns where resistance to moderate-income housing is pervasive have a new catalogue of reasons to oppose the law.
Decisions handed down by the Connecticut Supreme Court in July, and by the Superior Courts of New Britain and Bridgeport in March and June, ruled in favor of Glastonbury, Newtown and Bridgewater, respectively. The decisions involved three projects with a total of 159 single-family homes and apartments, 37 of which were to be offered at below-market rates.
Under the affordable-housing law, developers of market-rate projects receive negotiable density bonuses if 25 percent of their units are priced for tenants or purchasers whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the area or state median income, whichever is lower. The state's goal is to raise the proportion of housing for lower income tenants or owners to 10 percent in each of its 169 municipalities.
Last month only Justice Robert I. Berdon dissented when the Connecticut Supreme Court ruled 6 to 1 against the Christian Activities Council of Hartford, a century-old inner-city mission society with about 30 member churches. It wanted to build a total of 28 affordable single-family homes on 33 acres of unused water company land in Glastonbury. The watershed tract of forests, brooks and ravines -- for sale by the Metropolitan District Commission, a Hartford-based public water agency -- once served several towns in the area.
The court made its decision on the issue of open space. Justice David M. Borden wrote in his opinion that the public interest in the protection of open space, conservation and recreation clearly outweighed the need for affordable housing in the town.
Justice Berdon wrote in his dissenting opinion: "This case calls upon us to resolve the issue that lies at the heart of affordable housing in this state: What burden is a municipality required to satisfy before it may reject an affordable housing proposal? According to the majority, this burden is extremely deferential to the local zoning authorities whom the law was designed to keep in check."
Glastonbury's lawyer, William S. Rogers, said: "I think the Supreme Court was correct in saying that you can reject simply by saying you are preserving open space. The town set policy 20 or 30 years ago for a 600-acre tract to be to be preserved," including the parcel in question. And, he added, "the local real estate people counted at least 100 units in the affordable range around town when this application was heard."
ACCORDING to the state's Department of Economic and Community Development, 7.13 percent of the housing for the 29,000 residents of the 52-square-mile Town of Glastonbury is affordable. "We feel we have been quite successful," said Ken Leslie, Glastonbury's community development director. "We've had an affordable-housing program for 20 years."
Douglas Wootten, president of the Christian Activities Council, said that he was "extremely disappointed in the Supreme Court ruling."
"It undermines the statute," he said, "and opens the way for towns to be even less responsive to affordable housing using this decision as a precedent."
His council was supported by the Connecticut Civil Liberties Union and the Connecticut branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, both of which filed friend of the court briefs.
"Connecticut has one of the most restrictive zoning systems in the country, one that we believe has resulted in a pattern of housing discrimination in town after town," said Joseph Grabarz, director of the Civil Liberties Union's Connecticut office. He called local zoning "a political fiefdom."
The Civil Liberties Union's legal director, Philip Tegeler, added that the affordable-housing appeals procedure, which allows a developer to take a town to court when it believes that its project has been unfairly treated, is fundamentally a civil rights statute. "This decision," he said, "weakens all our other efforts to open up housing for people all over the state."
In the Newtown case, a proposal by D & H Homes was rejected by Judge William A. Mottolese because the property and septic system were in an aquifer protection zone, creating a substantial impact on public health. John Horton, a principal in D & H Homes, and his partners own 31 acres on which they planned to build 96 single-family homes using the 25 percent below-market component. "We believe that the issues Judge Mottolese ruled on are correctable," said Mr. Horton, "and we plan to proceed with some kind of development. We believe there is a need for affordable housing in Newtown." Affordable dwellings amount to 2.01 percent of all housing in Newtown, according to the state's Department of Economic and Community Development.
Judge Sidney Axelrod, in Superior Court, turned down John F. Carr Jr.'s proposal in Bridgewater, saying that there was no potable water supply for the subdivision, nor had the required municipal or State Department of Utility Control approvals been obtained. The proposal had called for a mix of 35 single-family homes and apartments on 24 acres, with an affordable component.
Over the summer Mr. Carr said he would attempt to meet the town's and Judge Axelrod's requirements by drilling a well and performing tests to determine whether he has sufficient volume of potable water, plus providing engineering drawings of the septic system. He said he would then apply for the required approvals and, upon receiving them, submit a new application to the town.
"It's an expensive procedure," said Neil R. Marcus, his lawyer. "The town is upping the cost to discourage affordable housing by holding it to a higher standard than market-rate housing." A market-rate condominium complex nearby with the same density of one unit per half-acre was not required to perform such tests in advance, he said.
Bridgewater has a population of 1,800 in 20 square miles, with homes priced from $250,000 up, including summer and weekend retreats owned by Mia Farrow and other celebrities. Its affordable-housing figure is .25 percent, state figures show.
"I think it's fair to say" said Michael A. Ziska, Bridgewater's attorney, "that although the town is not averse to affordable housing, the density proposed for this site was three to seven times higher than the current two-acre zone." He was referring to varying calculations for the single-family homes and apartments in the Carr proposal.
Timothy Hollister, a Hartford lawyer who represents many developers in dozens of such cases around the state, said he was discouraged by the recent turn of events. But, he said, "these three cases are coincidental in timing. Applicants have prevailed in two-thirds of the cases this year, but that's down from three-quarters a year or so ago." He has compiled informal statistics on the development of more than 1,500 affordable units built since the law went into effect, predominantly single family, but with a large rental contingent.
Shrinking amounts of available land and public concern for basic infrastructure issues, he said, "have made developers more aggressive, proposing affordable housing in areas where water and sewer are not readily available. To get the density for affordable housing you need those two things."
As the lawyer for Avalon Bay Communities, he has been involved in the company's seemingly endless string of lawsuits against towns that initially reject its proposals for luxury rental apartment complexes with the 25 percent affordable component.
But Avalon Bay has so far managed to prevail in court, using the law to its advantage in shoehorning its way into Wilton, Trumbull, New Canaan and other upscale towns that routinely resist affordable housing, albeit at the cost of lengthy legal battles.
While the suburban and rural towns resist affordable housing, Connecticut's major cities of Stamford, Bridgeport, New Haven and Hartford exceed the prescribed 10 percent, but need more, officials of those cities say.
The Stamford Zoning Board is considering a measure that would bring the state's affordable-housing law onto the city level. New housing developments in certain zones would be required to rent or sell 20 percent of their units below market rate. Because of the area's high income level, earnings of no more than 80 percent of the state's median income of around $54,000 would be the criterion for eligibility.
That would please Eileen Buchheit, a Bridgewater resident.
"The intent of the legislation was not for small villages like Bridgewater," she said at a public hearing on the Carr project, "but rather for large cities like Bridgeport."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Carr Jr. on his Bridgewater property. The court upheld the town's contention that there was no potable water for a subdivision.
(Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT (83%); CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT (83%); CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; GLASTONBURY (CONN); NEWTOWN (CONN); BRIDGEWATER (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; SEWERS; WATER; LAND USE POLICIES DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ZONING (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



17 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In /Munsey Park, N.Y.;
High Standards, Eye to Tradition

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
HOMEOWNERS in less exalted parts of Long Island haul their trash to the curb, mindful of collection schedules that must be met.
The chore would be unthinkable -- in fact, it would be contrary to village regulations -- in Munsey Park, a sedate, high-income village of 835 homes on the North Shore of Nassau County where all the niceties of suburban living are scrupulously observed. 
 Here three times a week the garbage man walks up the drive to retrieve cans behind houses and then dutifully returns them.
And when snow falls overnight on the village's 10 miles of undulating roads, "before you open your eyes in the morning the roads are plowed," said Mary Ann Horne, assistant manager of Daniel Gale MacCrate Real Estate, who moved here from Boston eight years ago with her husband, Frederick Horne, a banker, and their two children.
These amenities and special qualities like the stately sycamore trees and slate-roofed, two-story, sturdy and well-kept, center-hall colonials along Park Avenue give Munsey Park its decidedly upper-crust North Shore character. It is a place where tradition reigns, and where the Island's signature ranches and split-levels would look jarringly out of place.
But for many prospective buyers, the crown jewels are a public-school system with a reputation for excellence and an express-train commute of less than half an hour to Manhattan.
Munsey Park, a residential community almost exclusively made up of detached colonial, Tudor and Norman-style homes on lots typically of a third to half an acre is one of several high-income villages that are considered part of Manhasset, an area defined by the district boundaries of the highly rated Manhasset public schools.
In addition to Munsey Park, Manhasset includes the villages of Plandome, Plandome Manor, Plandome Heights and Flower Hill, as well as unincorporated Strathmore-Vanderbilt and Manhasset proper.
Munsey Park upholds high architectural standards, with permit requirements not only for all structural work but even for esthetic changes such as door or window replacements.
Most dwellings range in age from about 70 years old, reflecting village beginnings in the 1920's, to about 40.
Though newer homes are found here and there, the village is not the kind of place where new buyers are allowed to raze existing houses and replace them with ones more to their taste. Residents maintain older homes much as boat owners at certain yacht clubs keep aging racing fleets in ship-shape condition.
Despite housing prices that exclude most potential buyers, the market in Munsey Park is vigorous and inventory is low, Mrs. Horne of Daniel Gale MacCrate said. "People are getting their asking prices, and in some instances more," she said.
Diane Harragan, the president of Blaich House & Home Realty in Manhasset, described a three-bedroom colonial with two-and-a-half baths currently for sale for $650,000 as "probably the least expensive house in Munsey Park at the present time."
But in a market with "a tighter range" than in some other well-to-do areas, the highest price for a house currently on the market was $949,000 for a three-bedroom colonial, also with two-and-a-half baths on "a beautiful piece of property" she said.
As in other parts of Manhasset, property taxes in Munsey Park appear low when compared with high home values. Indeed, the village is among those areas that benefit from often criticized assessment practices in Nassau County that exact relatively higher taxes from residents in lower-income areas.
IN June the Federal Government sued Nassau, charging that its assessment practices imposed unfairly high taxes on minority homeowners in less prosperous areas. A court order or a voluntary decision to overhaul the current system could raise property taxes in Munsey Park and elsewhere in Manhasset.
But real estate agents said higher taxes would be unlikely to quell buyer interest in a village where houses tend to appreciate like blue-chip stocks in a steady market.
And it's friendly, said Susan Fickinger, who was at first put off by "houses that seemed very close together where you are literally next to your neighbor's driveway" when she and her husband, Thomas, moved to Munsey Park from Short Hills, N.J., four years ago. "From day one we always felt a strong sense of community and family," she said. "It was almost a Midwestern welcome. Neighbors were bringing apple pie to the door. We've been tremendously happy here."
Lacking shorefront or a golf course of its own, Munsey Park is nonetheless near Long Island Sound and private golf and swimming clubs including the Plandome Country Club, the North Hempstead Country Club and the Strathmore Vanderbilt Country Club, which has no golf.
The village has a small, architecturally correct shopping plaza on Route 25A, also called Northern Boulevard. But major shopping is found outside the village on the Miracle Mile along Northern Boulevard, with the tony Americana as its eastern anchor.
St. Francis Hospital, a 279-bed Roman Catholic institution specializing in the treatment of heart disease and the second largest cardiac treatment provider in the United States, is just beyond the village's northeast boundary. Two churches, the Congregational Church of Manhasset and the Lutheran Church of Our Saviour, are within the village.
For Munsey Park residents, an added advantage is the proximity of the k-6 Munsey Park Elementary School, where proceeds from a $21.5 million bond issue voters approved in 1996 paid for 16 new classrooms and a new auditorium built to conform with the stonework of the existing school.
The grade school, one of two in the district, is within walking distance for Munsey Park children. District students attend the Manhasset middle school, for grades 7 and 8, and the high school, where more than 95 percent of graduates go on to higher education.
THE Munsey Park school principal, Dr. Jean Kendall, said enrollment was expected to grow from about 560 to 650 students over the next several years, growth real estate agents said reflected more young families moving into the district.
The school has two computer labs and computers in every classroom. Fourth-grade students finished close to the top for Long Island public schools in statewide English language arts tests this year, Dr. Kendall said.
A comprehensive math program places early emphasis on problems and problem-solving. There are extended learning and mentor programs for students with special needs, and an arts program that includes dance and drama clubs.
At the Manhasset High School, attended by 730 of the district's 2,400 students, median S.A.T. scores last year were 544 in verbal and 592 in math. Both scores are far above average state scores of 495 in verbal and 503 in math. Two students were National Merit finalists this year.
Dr. Peter A. Pantina, associate principal for grades 7 through 12, said more than 70 percent of the 160 graduates in the high school class of 1999 earned Regents diplomas.
HONORS classes are offered in math, English, social studies, chemistry and biology. Networked computers with Internet access are available in several computer labs and every classroom. More than 80 percent of students take part in extracurricular programs. The middle school, where antidiscrimination programs are emphasized, is part of the high school campus.
In pre-Colonial times the Manhasset area was inhabited by the Matinecocks. They called it Sink Sink, or "place of many stones." By the 17th century disputes over ownership raged between the Dutch and English settlers. The area remained rural and lightly settled through the next two centuries.
A trestle built in 1897 near the mucky southern end of Manhasset Bay brought the Long Island Rail Road, and by the 1930's the Manhasset area was a haven for commuters. In the early 20th century the Munsey Park area was still a rolling expanse of estate farmlands and woods. In 1922, Frank A. Munsey, a newspaper-chain owner, purchased the 300-acre estate of Louis Sherry, the confectioner, moving into and remodeling the Sherry home, which survives today as the Strathmore-Vanderbilt Country Club.
By his death in 1925, Munsey had more than doubled the size of his land holdings. Without heirs, he left all of his assets to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The museum engaged land developers to build a high-quality residential community with strict architectural and land-use controls on part of the land, and sold the balance. The section developed by the museum was named for Munsey. Roads followed natural land contours and were named for artists. Over 2,000 people attended the opening of the first model home, on Park Avenue, in 1928.
The village's Copley Pond, near the Congregational Church of Manhasset, was once a water hazard near a now-vanished golf course's 14th hole. The course opened in 1932 but closed just five years later because of an operating deficit.
Now the pond attracts skaters when it freezes and provides open space in a village that has little despite its affluence. A large playing field at the Munsey Park school and Waldmann Memorial Park, a passive park on the village's northern boundary, also fill the gap.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A customer carries a wedding gown from a shop in the Munsey Park Center, above. Right, homes on Bellows Lane off Manhasset Road. Below right, children frolic in the new playground at the Munsey Park elementary school.
5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath colonial at 314 Ryder Road, $659,000. 4-bedroom, 3-bath colonial at 133 Ryder Road, $725,000. 6-bedroom, 4-bath colonial at 5 Ridge Circle, $939,000. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 2,692 (1997 estimate).
AREA: .52 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $148,946 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOME: $725,000.
TAXES ON MEDIAN-PRICE HOME: $8,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $652,500.
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $630,000.
PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $20,187.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 17 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 26 minutes on express service from Manhasset on Long Island Rail Road, $6.25 one way, $42 weekly, $135 monthly.
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Harry Nicolaides), elected to a two-year term; 4-member board of trustees elected to two-year staggered terms.
CODES: Area, 516; ZIP, 11030.
DEPRESSION AID: During the Depression residents of Munsey Park held onto their homes tenaciously despite adverse economic conditions. A local realtor, Ernest G. Blaich, said in a May 1933 letter to The Manhasset Mail that while many of the homes were for sale at distress prices few or none of the owners had suffered foreclosure. Not until 1951 did the existence of an emergency committee village officials formed in 1933 to avert foreclosures come to light. The committee, whose members included the village's then Mayor, Harold B. Callis, and five others, collected money from residents and secretly lent it to homeowners at risk of mortgage foreclosures. In 1951, $268 remaining in the fund was transferred for other uses, and the rescue effort was disclosed.
 
Map of Munsey Park, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PLANDOME COUNTRY CLUB (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MUNSEY PARK (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); CHILDREN (77%); SUBURBS (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



18 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: New Construction in Rockaways;
2-Family Houses In Arverne

 BODY:
The Briarwood Organization of Queens has begun selling new houses on a handful of sites in the Arverne section of the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens, the first phase of new construction on urban renewal land that has seen no development activity for about 40 years.
There are to be 40 two-family houses in all, in scattered locations south of Rockaway Beach Boulevard between Beach 59th Street and Beach 61st Street, in an area where existing houses still stand. Meanwhile, plannning proceeds for broader economic development ventures on the 260 acres of vacant urban renewal land. 
 Briarwood's project is called Waters Edge. Prices range from $227,000 to $260,000, with first occupancy planned for next spring. Eligible buyers must have incomes no lower than $40,000 a year and no higher than $133,500, said Vincent L. Riso, president of Briarwood. "The first six buyers were chosen just last weekend," Mr. Riso said. "We expect to sell out by September."
The houses, designed by Fakler/Eliason of Fresh Meadows, Queens, are all brick, with shingled mansard roofs and a one-car garage. No model homes were built, but at a sales trailer between Beach 59th and Beach 60th Streets on Rockaway Beach Boulevard Briarwood has built a scale model of the homes.
"People who are now paying $600 a month or more to rent an apartment in the area can live in a new house for the same amount of money, as long as they have good credit and a 5 percent down payment," Mr. Riso said. "We're having no trouble finding buyers." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BRIARWOOD ORGANIZATION WATER'S EDGE SOFTWARE (57%); BRIARWOOD ORGANIZATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRIARWOOD ORGANIZATION BRIARWOOD ORGANIZATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ARVERNE (NYC); ROCKAWAY PENINSULA (NYC); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); 

PERSON: VINCENT L RISO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



19 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
In the Internet Gold Rush, Fund Customers Find a Research Treasure

BYLINE: By ABBY SCHULTZ

 BODY:
CLICK on "buy." Click on "sell." Click on "payoff."
The mutual fund industry has joined the rush to the Internet over the last two years -- and the move seems to be benefiting both the fund companies and many of their customers. 
 Investors can buy funds on the sites of many no-load fund companies or through the sites of one of several brokerage firms that offer fund supermarkets. To avoid losing customers to on-line firms, many no-load fund groups, including the Vanguard Group, American Century Investments and T. Rowe Price Associates, have opened their own on-line brokerage firms, trading individual stocks and sometimes offering thousands of funds beyond their own.
Such supermarkets will be the conduits for the bulk of all fund purchases by 2003, with most investors relying on fund company sites for information only, according to James Punishill, author of a report on Internet investing for Forrester Research, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. By 2003, Forrester predicts, investors will hold $1.2 trillion in mutual fund assets in Internet-based accounts, up from an estimated $128 billion by the end of this year.
The most noticeable change brought by the Internet, however, has been its capacity to deliver detailed research to virtually all investors, no matter how much they have to invest. Using that information -- which is often free -- investors can compare funds before making choices. Dozens of Web sites offer performance figures as well as portfolio tracking, so investors can monitor their holdings and the shifts in their asset mix of stocks, bonds and cash.
"The self-directed investor has at their disposal what five years ago professional investors didn't even have at their disposal," said Cebra Graves, Internet strategist at Morningstar Inc., the financial publisher in Chicago.
Morningstar's Web site lets investors compare funds and portfolio holdings at no charge (www.morningstar.net). For varying fees, investors can gain access to more detailed screens and data. Morningstar also supplies data to other companies like E*Trade, whose site provides free access to research and sorting tools using end-of-quarter data. The Mutual Fund Education Alliance, an association of no-load funds, offers a site at www.mfea.com with fund industry news, investment planning tools and links to fund company sites. Investors can register on the site to gain access to a personal portfolio tracker.
In other words, the Internet lets investors get the information they need when they want it. "Inevitably, you didn't get the brochure at the right time and, inevitably, the information you need isn't in there," said Shelton S. Unger, head of on-line services at Vanguard. With the Internet, a great deal of information is available immediately, she added, and you "sort of find your own path." Vanguard recently updated an investment planning service to allow investors to prepare on line for retirement, college or other investment objectives. The service considers the user's risk tolerance and time horizon, among other factors.
One bonus for the fund industry is that many investors who know the Internet are willing to receive routine information, like shareholder reports, on line instead of in the mail. That can help keep down a fund's expenses. When an investor requests a prospectus over the phone, for example, Vanguard spends $10 to $12 to respond -- in labor costs for the phone representative and for printing and mailing.
Internet use is climbing at Vanguard: 37 percent of all shareholders used the Web to get information or to make a transaction in the first quarter of 1999, up from 20 percent a year earlier, Ms. Unger said.
The trend is evident elsewhere. At Charles Schwab & Company, 45 percent of all mutual fund transactions were on the Internet in mid-June, up from 25 percent a year ago and 16 percent at the beginning of 1998.
"What we see is that the process of investing is easier, richer than it's ever been before," said Jeffrey M. Lyons, senior vice president for mutual funds marketing at Schwab. Instead of searching through magazine and newspaper articles for information and advice, investors can go on line to sort through thousands of funds and run through detailed asset allocation scenarios for growth or value investing as well as domestic or international choices. "Then, immediately, they click a button and invest in the fund," Mr. Lyons said.
Schwab and other companies say the ease of Internet trading has not caused investors to flip rapidly in and out of funds. Schwab customers are charged a redemption fee if they sell shares within six months of purchase.
Brian C. Murray, general manager for E*Trade's mutual fund group, which reserves the right to charge a fee for sales made within three months, said, "There appears to be an even stronger buy-and-hold ethic than I expected."
The fund industry has also found the Internet to be useful for reaching retirement investors. The 401(k) Forum is an Internet-based retirement investment adviser hired by companies to offer personal 401(k) advice to their employees. Fidelity Investments, which already offers extensive Web-based services to its retirement plan participants, is now offering a service aimed at small businesses, "e401k," that is a 401(k) plan sold and maintained entirely over the Internet.
Despite the success of the Internet as a means for research, the average investor remains a little reluctant to click and invest. That largely reflects how many people began using the Internet just last year, Forrester's Mr. Punishill said. In fact, most fund investors with Internet access visit fund company sites only for tasks like checking on a portfolio balance or downloading a prospectus, according to a survey taken last fall and published by American Century.
Although 46 percent of Internet users with funds visited fund Web sites in 1998 -- up from 28 percent in 1996 -- only 9 percent bought or sold shares, up from 3 percent in 1996 but down from 11 percent in 1997, according to the survey. The main reason for their reluctance is the fear that the Internet is not a secure place to conduct business. Some 52 percent expressed concerns about making Internet fund transactions, though that share was down from 68 percent in 1996.
PEOPLE who buy funds on the Internet are more likely to use fund supermarkets, where they can get consolidated statements and gain access to funds from other companies, Mr. Punishill said. Although fund companies have been forming their own brokerage firms, virtually none of them -- with the exception of Fidelity and Vanguard -- will be able to compete effectively with the big discounters, he asserted. "Very few fund companies will have the resources or know-how to turn themselves from a mutual fund company into a brokerage firm," Mr. Punishill said. "They are different business models altogether."
Some experts say the majority of investors are unlikely to ever use the Internet to buy or sell funds. Eli E. Neusner, a senior consultant at Spectrem Group, a financial services consulting firm, argues that as a percentage of mutual fund investors, those investing on line will peak in just a few years.
Investors can be overwhelmed by the amount of information on a Web site, Mr. Neusner said, and often prefer to speak with an adviser for guidance, particularly when dealing with complicated issues like estate planning or saving for a child's college education.
On the Internet, he said, "no one has found a thoroughly efficient way of walking an uncomfortable investor or even a moderately experienced investor through a financial strategy."
But Mr. Graves at Morningstar predicted that on-line technology would evolve to the point that any client could use the Internet to talk with a financial adviser on line. Once that happens, he said, "the Internet is no longer a technology that favors one demographic over another."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Getting Wired"
The Internet is having a growing impact on how investors buy, sell and research mutual funds.
 
Mutual fund companies with Web sites
'97: 181
'98: 322
'99: 350
 
Fund sites that allow transactions
'97: 13
'98: 25
'99: 53
 
Fund sites that offer account access
'97: 42
'98: 71
'99: 96
 
(Source: McGladrey & Pullen)
 
Drawing (Mary Ann Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); TROW (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (72%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); WEB SITES (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); WRITERS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



20 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, a Tax Break for Homebuyers

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN Debbie Chewning started searching for her first home last year, she often drove from her rental apartment here to the bucolic streets of Takoma Park in Maryland, just across the border from northwest Washington, where she hoped to live. "I really liked it there," said Ms. Chewning, who has lived in the Washington area since 1981. "It was one of the first places I looked when I decided I needed to stop renting."
But when Ms. Chewning heard that the Federal Government would pay her to buy a residence in the nation's capital, she turned her back on Takoma Park. The incentive: a one-time $5,000 credit against her Federal income tax. "I started concentrating on the areas of the District where I could get more space and a yard that were in my price range," said Ms. Chewning, an office manager for a consulting company that specializes in environmental issues. 
 In March, she moved into a two-bedroom, Victorian-style home in the Capitol Hill area of Washington. Her $170,000 home includes a dining room, full basement and garden.
Ms. Chewning's gift from the Government is an unusual income-tax credit, available to income-eligible people who buy a primary residence in the nation's capital. It was designed to increase homeownership in a city that has not only seen a steep decline in population in the last few years but also holds the dubious record of having the lowest rate of homeownership in the country.
In the mid-90's, when the District's debt climbed to more than $700 million, residents could not always count on basic services like garbage collection and street cleaning. In 1995, Congress put the District's financial management in the hands of a financial control board. The city's health has steadily improved since then.
Eligibility for the short-term tax credit, which is available only in Washington, is limited to single buyers whose income is no more than $90,000 and married couples who together earn no more than $130,000. Buyers coming from outside the District may have owned homes immediately before moving there, but for District residents to qualify for the tax credit they may not have owned homes there for one year before they buy. Buyers must close on principal residences between Aug. 5, 1997, and Dec. 31, 2000.
What distinguishes this tax-credit program from other homeownership incentives is that it provides relief on income tax rather than property tax, which is a common provision of government programs.
A spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service said the agency had not tracked the number of taxpayers who received the credit. But a survey by the not-for-profit Greater Washington Research Center said its research suggested that up to 3,495 buyers claimed all or part of the credit.
(For single people with incomes of $70,000 to $90,000, the credit is reduced by 25 cents for each dollar of income that exceeds $70,000, and for couples the same phase-out in value applies for joint incomes over $110,000. For taxpayers who owe less than $5,000, the remaining credit can be applied in following years until used up.)
The center's figures were based on a sample survey mailed to about one-third of residential properties that had transferred ownership in the District last year.
Using the results of the survey, the center concluded that 62 percent of those claiming the credit already lived in the District, about 18 percent had previous addresses outside the District and the rest said they previously lived outside the Washington metropolitan area.
Real estate professionals, housing experts and local officials say the tax credit has contributed to the best housing market in the District that they have ever seen. A strong economy, lower interest rates and an apparent renewed faith in the District as a place to live have also encouraged people to buy homes.
According to the National Association of Realtors, sales of existing homes and apartments in the District jumped by 50 percent last year, the second-biggest increase in the country after Kentucky.
In 1998, 13,000 homes and apartments were sold in Washington, according to the organization. Sales totaled 8,700 in 1997 and 6,700 in 1996. The N.A.R. figures are rounded off to the nearest 100 and do not include new homes.
James Assey, a lawyer who returned to Washington after working in South Carolina for nearly two years, said the tax credit helped him make his decision to buy a home rather than rent again.
"I came back fully expecting to rent a place," said Mr. Assey, who started his rental search in the District as well as in Alexandria and Arlington in Virginia. "But I discovered that when I crunched the numbers and took into consideration the tax credit and the cost of renting, it made no sense to rent." Late last year, Mr. Assey paid $250,000 for a town house on Capitol Hill that includes his two-bedroom residence and a small rental unit.
JEFF CITRIN, who bought a $110,000, one-bedroom condominium in a prewar building in the Adams Morgan neighborhood, said that the tax credit made it possible for him to buy the apartment he wanted.
"I started looking in 1997 and then stopped to save money and pay off bills," Mr. Citrin said. "When I came back to the market about Christmas late last year, prices were higher and there were not as many apartments in my price range. The tax credit definitely helped."
Tucker and Susan Greer said the $5,000 tax credit helped them justify making a commitment to the District.
"We are both Government workers and we love being in Washington," said Mr. Greer, who works for the Government Printing Office. "When it was time for us to buy, I was really open to any option. When they dangled the $5,000 in front of us, it made the decision to stay in Washington easier." The Greers, who rented an apartment in Dupont Circle, paid $230,000 for their three-bedroom, 1890 row house in a nearby neighborhood, Logan Circle.
The tax credit was the idea of Eleanor Holmes Norton, who represents the District in the House of Representatives, as she searched for ways to use tax policy to revive the city. The program was part of the Federal Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997.
"We have already lost three times the population in this decade as we lost in the last," said Ms. Norton, who expects the tax credit to increase the base of taxpayers, stabilize neighborhoods and stem population loss. "This tax credit was the fastest way to stimulate homeownership."
ACCORDING to the Census Bureau's estimated population statistics, the District has had a 13 percent drop in population since 1990. The census put the estimated population at 606,900 in 1990 and 523,100 as of July 1, 1998. According to the census, in 1998 the rate of homeownership across the country was 66.3 percent, while in the District about 40 percent of residents owned their homes.
"Washington is a city of homes," said Ms. Norton, a native Washingtonian, "but the majority of residents are tenants. We need more homeowners. When you own your own home, you are less likely to flee."
Eligible buyers claim the credit when they file Federal income tax returns for the year they bought their homes. Fannie Mae, the nation's largest provider of home mortgage funds, which is based in Washington, and the District's Housing Finance Agency are working on a strategy to allow buyers to use the money up front for down payments or closing costs. The most likely plan will be loans from employers.
Patrick Lavigne, who with his wife, Lari, bought a three-bedroom house in the Capitol Hill area, said they were motivated as much by the city's atmosphere of rejuvenation as by the tax credit.
"Did the $5,000 make us decide to buy in the city; probably not," Mr. Lavigne said. "It certainly didn't hurt."
"Given the political situation in the past, living in the District has been trying," Mr. Lavigne said. "This was a community that for a time was not able to sweep the streets. But recently some of our concerns have been offset by improvements. We are more comfortable with our investment now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Debbie Chewning at her home in the Capitol Hill district, (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) and Susan and Tucker Greer at their row house in the Logan Circle neighborhood. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GREATER WASHINGTON RESEARCH CENTER; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREATER WASHINGTON RESEARCH CENTER; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TAX CREDITS; SALES REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (83%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POPULATION DECLINE (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (61%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G DEBBIE CHEWNING (79%); JAMES ASSEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



21 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2725 words

HEADLINE: E-Mail, E-Commerce And Now E-Buildings

BYLINE: By MARGOT SLADE 

 BODY:
IT hasn't become as routine as electricity, water and heat, but quietly and at an impressive pace information technologies -- especially new modes of electronic data transmission -- are joining established utilities as services that Manhattan apartment dwellers have come to expect.
"We already take cable television, local telephone connections and long distance for granted," said Jonathan Rudes, the senior managing director of Newmark and Company Real Estate Inc., and a member of the Real Estate Technology Forum, which is helping the industry match information technologies and market demands. "We generally expect that we'll walk into our houses or apartments and, like lights and heat, those two services will be there on demand." 
 Familiarity with other information-entertainment technologies, Mr. Rudes said, should breed expectations regarding their availability. He cited "smart" appliances operated by remote control and card- or thumb-reading security systems as future examples. With more people communicating by E-mail and shopping by computer, he said, high-speed Internet access in Manhattan apartments is already starting to become commonplace.
"Until you have high-speed Internet access at home, you don't realize how much you need it," said Ari Rubenstein, a commodities trader and adviser who, with his wife, Atoosa, rents a $3,300-a-month, 1,000-square-foot apartment in 180 Riverside Boulevard, a new Trump Place luxury building overlooking the Hudson at 68th Street. "Now, I wouldn't move into a building without it."
Mrs. Rubenstein, the editor of CosmoGIRL!, a new magazine and web site for teen-agers, is equally enthusiastic about high-speed Internet access, and her cell phone -- both "time savers," she said, "when time is a precious commodity."
Neither considered the building's offer of satellite or cable television (they opted for cable) an attraction, since they "don't watch and don't particularly care." But Mr. Rubenstein, in particular, was intrigued with the promise of the building's internal computerized information system, through which the concierge can track packages, make travel, restaurant or theater reservations and provide a range of interactive services, including teleconferencing, in which tenants are able to see and speak via computer with visitors at the front desk. The system also coordinates residents' maintenance and security/access requests.
Colin Abernethy and his wife, Alexis, didn't concertedly search for a high-tech residence either. But after finding the new space they wanted at their price and location -- 1,700 square feet for under $700,000 in the Ice House at 27 North Moore Street in TriBeCa -- they discovered that they needed all the information services their condominium can provide: digital satellite television; cable, if they desired; a responsive local telephone service, including the possibility of telephoning internally -- and free of charge -- with other residents and building staff; a reliable and economic long-distance carrier of their choosing, and, yes, high-speed Internet access.
"They may have started as amenities, but now they're necessities," said Mr. Abernethy, a former managing director at Bear Sterns who helped found Flextrader.com, a web site for retail investors, and plans to open a computer-equipped home office. Mrs. Abernethy, he explained, is the director of sales for Material Connexion, a materials resource library. She works at home, on her laptop, up to four hours a day. "I'm on line seven or eight hours," he said. "When it comes to processing information, wherever I am I need speed and choice."
So does Simone Procas, a litigation associate at the law firm of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher L.L.P., who with Edward Ferguson, the head of New York City's Trade Waste Commission, will be moving next year into a $635,000, 1,300 square foot condominium being built at 53 North Moore Street. "At work I go on line for legal information -- past cases, recent court decisions, The New York Law Journal," Ms. Procas said. "If I can get that at home, great; it means I can come in less often on weekends."
WAS it requisite to their apartment search? Not really, said Ms. Procas, whose priorities were location, space and price. "But it's nice to have the potential for several phone lines, cable television, the Internet, where I also shop for books, read breaking news and plan our vacations," she said. She could get used to these at-home services "very quickly," she said.
That's what building owners and managers are banking on as they install the infrastructure for information technologies, particularly high-speed Internet access, in new construction as well as renovations.
"They want to take advantage of having a captive consumer audience -- residents who will be in their buildings 12 to 24 hours a day and who will need services," said Christopher H. Martorella, the managing director of Boston Financial, a real estate investment firm. "Now, their audience is more technologically savvy; they probably use more technology on a daily basis, and feel more at ease. Owners and managers want to capture revenues from that."
And they don't mind benefiting from the desire of service providers to get access to those tenants. The competition can be so intense that vendors will offer to discount or bundle services, waive installation charges and wire the building virtually free of charge. Some developers may arrange to collect a small fee for every resident who signs up for a particular service.
Nancy Packes, the president of Feathered Nest, a Manhattan real estate brokerage, said that developers are giving increasing attention to the electronic sinews of their buildings, especially when their target groups of residents come from certain industries or professions. "Attracting these market segments," Ms. Packes said, "has made high-speed Internet access standard in the last year and a half. No new building has gone up without it."
Pamela Liebman, the president of Corcoran Group Marketing, said developers are also recognizing that many residents today want to work out of their apartments. "And a number of those residents were spoiled in school and at the office, where they had available to them fast and sophisticated technologies," Ms. Liebman said. "No wonder they have certain expectations regarding services that should be available to them at home."
Owners and developers of residential buildings, said Mr. Rudes of Newmark, are beginning to see information services as a point of competition. "It's starting with the technologies -- who can offer better reception or faster, cheaper speeds," he said. "Later, the competition may focus on content" -- who can provide better-quality, lower-cost information; who has the smarter, more thoroughly wired "information concierge."
Landlords are also retrofitting older buildings with the new technologies. Herb Hauser, president and chief executive officer of Barnes Wentworth, a technology engineering company, said there are about 50 major retrofit projects around the city right now.
"The whole retrofit market, and service industry, is likely to pick up," Mr. Hauser said, "once landlords and co-op boards discover how simple and inexpensive it can be -- $75,000 to $125,000 to bring fiber optics and broadband conductivity to a 110 to 125 unit apartment building. And you don't have to have a mess of wires or drill lots of holes in people's walls."
Developers and owners of residential properties understand that these new technologies are like apartment balconies, Mr. Martorella said, noting, "Residents may not use them, but they like to know that they can walk outside if they want."
Laughing ruefully at the analogy, Waiman Leung, a resident of the Ice House, agreed. Mr. Leung, an options trader, paid $550,000 for his 1,700-square-foot condominium. He loved the high, domed ceilings, the TriBeCa neighborhood, the space and the price, which he said was a lot less than what he had seen in SoHo.
As for the building's high-tech options, he said, "The D.S.S, or direct satellite service television, was a big draw, because I love watching football, along with Bloomberg financial news and CNN. And the satellite dish on the building's roof means that I get games from across the country and great reception."
Mr. Leung's home entertainment system attests to his infatuation. He hooked up the satellite video output connection in his bedroom to a Macintosh flat-panel monitor for what he considers to be "the best picture on the market," and the satellite audio output connection to a Bose system "to boost audio quality." He has a wide-screen, high-definition television in his living room, connected to six speakers for a surround-sound effect.
WHAT of high-speed Internet access, which he relies on in the office and has yet to use at home? Mr. Leung said that neither he nor his friends have found the proffered combinations of price and speed -- that is, the money they must pay for the higher speeds they like -- to be irresistibly attractive. "So," he said, "we haven't signed up yet."
But as with balconies, so with technology; Mr. Leung and his friends say they like the very notion of choice.
"Developers, owners and managers may not fully understand the technologies," Mr. Hauser said, "but they know that they are important to residents and that residents want options. That gives the developers enormous power. In effect, the spaces in which people live may determine the shape of the information industry."
The problems arise in the choices available. "It's as if it's 1900 and building owners wanted to install elevators," Mr. Hauser said. "If they went to Otis, they would get an elevator with an electric motor. If they went to another company, they'd get one driven by hydraulics. A third company sold steam-piston-driven products. There are many ways, technologically, to provide any one service, like television or high-speed Internet access, and every technology provider has a product and an agenda."
And every product has its merits, drawbacks and risks, as members of the co-op board at 133 West 17th Street are discovering. Jack Piry, the co-op's vice president, described the situation this way:
The turn-of-the-century building has 24 apartments ranging in size from about 1,300 square feet to more than 3,200 square feet. Maintenance starts at $869 and runs up to $1,575 a month. He said that one of the last apartments sold, a 2,000 square foot penthouse, went for approximately $700,000.
The only electronic services this co-op has are telephones, from Bell Atlantic, and cable television, from Time Warner. "We don't have even the option of getting on line fast, if we wanted it in the future," said Mr. Piry, who works with computerized patient data for New York Hospital. "The phone jacks are not always conveniently placed" (his is above the washer-dryer) "and as for cable television, the reception has not always been great, in part because of the wires."
VISITORS to 133 West 17th Street cannot miss the wires -- like two giant vines dangling along either side of the building, with a loose-hanging high wire in between. In most New York City buildings, cable television service comes in from the street to the basement, then courses up through the service hallways or stairwells, branching off on each floor to deliver the service to each apartment.
In 133 West 17th Street, however, cable television is supplied through cables that run outside the building from a box on the roof, and then into the individual apartments. The cables are unsightly, and, exposed to the weather, they have been damaged periodically, producing "ghosts" of broadcast images on residents' television screens.
"Many of us would like better-quality, cheaper cable," Mr. Piry said. "We'd like the opportunity for higher-speed computer use, and we'd certainly like fewer wires that are no longer exposed. Oh, and customer service for both telephone and cable has been an issue."
Don Judd, a member of the building's co-op board, suggested alternatives: For the television service alone, they could try a satellite dish, assuming, that is, that a dish placed on the building's roof would be in the satellite's line of sight. Or they could try a fiber optics-based system, especially since, according to a company spokesman, RCN Corporation has been "building out" in New York -- that is, installing and extending the reach of its own fiber-optics lines beneath the streets.
"The good thing about using an RCN" or similar company, Mr. Judd said, "is that the cable service is cheaper and the one company could handle telephone local service, cable TV and, through a cable-modem arrangement, Internet access for each apartment -- and with minimal wires."
But there are drawbacks, said Mr. Judd, who is responsible for the relationship between Lucent Technologies and Sun Microsystems worldwide.
These include the lack of competition, which he believes generates more and better services at an improved price; the limitations of any cable-based technology -- that the more people using it simultaneously, the slower the operating speed, and the issue of what happens if someone wants to go back to Time Warner: Would they be charged an installation fee?
"The bottom line for users," Mr. Hauser said, "is that they're at a stage when they can order 17 different kinds of spaghetti, but it's still spaghetti sitting there on their plate. Somebody has to take the bowl, untangle the mess and figure out which of the spaghetti is really gourmet pasta."
 
A Glossary of High-Tech Terms
 
Bandwidth: A measurement indicating the volume of information that can be transmitted over a network, usually expressed in megabits per second. The higher the bandwidth, the wider the information pipeline, the greater the flow of data. Even using the fastest modems currently available with phone lines, users can access the Internet over regular telephone wires at only 56 kilobits per second (that's 56,000 bits per second). By contrast, T-1 speeds can reach 1.544 megabits (1.544 million bits) per second, while digital subscriber lines (D.S.L.) can approach T-1 speeds.
Bit: The smallest unit of computerized data. The word comes from collapsing binary digit.
Bps: How fast data are being moved, expressed in bits per second.
Byte: -- There are usually 8 bits to a byte, or a single character.
Cable modem: A technology that uses a modem and coaxial cable to give computers speedy access to the Internet. The same coax may deliver your cable television service.
Coaxial cable: Cable configured with an inner conductor and an outer shield positioned around a common axis.
Dial-up connection: Accessing the Internet using a telephone and modem.
Direct connection: High-speed access to the Internet; just turn on your computer (if it is suitably hooked up to a T-1, cable-modem or digital subscriber line) and you're in.
D.S.L.: Digital subscriber line, a way of using electronics to move data at high speeds (at close to 1.54 megabits per second) over regular twisted-pair, copper phone wires.
Fiber optics: A form of communications using light transmission through optical (glass) fibers.
Intranet: The computer communications network internal to a building, company or organization.
I.S.D.N.: Integrated Services Digital Network, a network of all-digital, high-bandwidth telephone lines that can simultaneously deliver audio signals, video signals and data. In other words, it's a way of moving more and different data over regular twisted-pair, copper phone lines at a brisk 128,000 bits -- that's 128 K -- per second. Very popular in the late 1980's and early 90's, it is much less popular now.
L.A.N.: A system of connected computers within a building, an apartment, a house or other small area.
Leased line: A telephone line rented for someone's use 24 hours a day, seven days a week. A T-1 is an example. Think of it as a private line.
Modem: A device connected to the computer and to a telephone line or cable through which one computer can talk to other computers.
T-1: The name given to a bandwidth or category of leased telephone lines that allow very rapid movement of data (1.544 megabits or 1,544,000 bits per second) over the Internet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A satellite dish along with an antenna for local broadcasts atop 27 North Moore Street in TriBeCa. In wall behind Mr. Abernethy's computer, an outlet holds jacks for telephone and highspeed copper cable. The
cable connects, in his laundry closet, to a communications hub, which connects to high-speed T-1 line in subcellar. Colin Abernethy with his computer, connected to a high-speed T-1 line at 27 North Moore Street. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Kathy Neese, the day concierge at 180 Riverside Boulevard in Trump Place, shown with John Sutherland, property manager, at computer, part of system through which tenants can access a wide variety of services. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); DATA TRANSMISSION (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); TELECONFERENCING (77%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: SLADE, MARGOT SIMONE PROCAS (65%); COLIN ABERNETHY (65%); ARI RUBENSTEIN (65%); JONATHAN RUDES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



22 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Emily Epstein, Paul Landau

 BODY:
Emily Sarah Epstein and Paul Stuart Landau are to be married today at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Judge David G. Trager of Federal District Court in Brooklyn is to officiate.
Mrs. Landau, 30, graduated with honors from the University of Chicago and is a candidate for a Ph.D. in American history at Yale University. She is the daughter of Rachel and Melvin Epstein of Brooklyn. Her father is a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. Her mother is a freelance writer and the author of "Anne Frank" (Franklin Watts, 1997), a biography for children. 
 The bride's maternal grandfather, Herbert Stein of Washington, was a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Nixon and Ford Administrations.
Mr. Landau, 36, is an associate professor of African history at Yale. He is to become an associate professor of history at the University of Maryland at College Park in September. He is the author of "The Realm of the Word: Language, Gender and Christianity in a Southern African Kingdom" (Heinemann, 1995). He graduated from Wesleyan University and received a master's degree in history and African studies and a Ph.D. in history from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
He is the son of Sarah Bradford Landau and Sidney I. Landau of Manhattan. His mother, an architectural historian, is a professor of art history at New York University. His father, a lexicographer, retired from the Cambridge University Press in Manhattan, where he was the editorial director and the editor in chief of the Cambridge Dictionary of American English, which is to be published in September.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo. (Harold Hechler Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS HISTORY (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); ART HISTORY (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, EMILY SARAH (EMILY SARAH LANDAU); LANDAU, PAUL STUART SARAH BRADFORD LANDAU (91%); EMILY SARAH EPSTEIN (80%); BROOKLYN BOTANIC (56%); PAUL STUART LANDAU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



23 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
When It Comes to Tax Cuts, Torricelli Thinks of Elections

BYLINE: By James Dao; James Dao reports from Washington for The New York Times.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The current debate on Capitol Hill over tax cuts is one of those grand hand-wringing spectacles that Congress does best. Return the surplus to hard-working taxpayers, or shore up Social Security and Medicare? Target cuts to the middle class, or scatter them about everywhere? Protect against future deficits, or stimulate the economy?
In reality, the choices are not so stark. And most people in Washington believe that ultimately, Congress will pass a Republican bill, President Clinton will veto it and the two sides will negotiate a compromise that more or less satisfies both. 
 Which makes much of this dust-up a form of political foreplay, noisy posturing aimed at the masses in preparation for the 2000 elections, when Republicans will run as the tax-cut kids, and Democrats as their fiscally responsible parents.
Leave it, then, to Senator Robert G. Torricelli, New Jersey's junior Democratic senator and senior political operative, to explain the raw partisan politics of it for us.
To Mr. Torricelli, the tax-cut fight is about policy, yes, but perhaps more important, about remaking the image of the Democratic Party. As he sees it, his party should not be on the defensive about cutting taxes. Instead, it should be seizing the issue, pushing for big tax breaks and forcing the 2000 electoral fight onto Democratic turf, meaning issues like health care, Social Security and gun control.
So Mr. Torricelli has been out front of many of his Democratic colleagues in pushing for major tax reductions. Earlier this year, he angered some Democrats by co-sponsoring legislation with Senator Paul Coverdell, a Republican from Georgia, that would greatly reduce the number of Americans paying taxes in the highest bracket.
And last week, he joined a group of centrist Democrats and moderate Republicans in advocating legislation that would cut taxes by $500 billion over 10 years -- a measure that falls neatly between the main Republican bill, which would reduce taxes by $792 billion over 10 years, and the principal Democratic bill, which would reduce them by $290 billion over the same period.
As Mr. Torricelli sees it, he is helping stake out a place where his fellow Democrats can eventually land. And then, with the right spin, the party can try to claim that it was there all along.
"This is an important moment for the Democratic Party," Mr. Torricelli said last week. "The traditional perception problems of the Democratic Party have largely evaporated. The Democratic Party is now given a fair share of responsibility for eliminating the deficit and creating annual surpluses. The extraordinary economic growth during the Clinton years has convinced many people of the credibility of the party in managing the national economy.
"The single obstacle left is to convince people of our commitment to lowering tax rates and keeping taxes as low as possible while still maintaining our obligations. It's the third leg of the stool."
As usual, Mr. Torricelli is operating on several levels here. On one, he is chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, in charge of the party's long-shot efforts to regain control of the Senate next year.
But he is also the putative leader of New Jersey Democratic Party, with a vested interest in seeing that a Democrat wins next year's Senate race against Governor Whitman, whose own tax-cutting credentials are well established.
The two major Democratic candidates, former Gov. Jim Florio and Jon S. Corzine, the former chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, have said they support President Clinton's plan, which calls for a smaller tax cut than Mr. Torricelli is proposing, to leave more money for Social Security and other domestic programs.
"The President's approach is more sensible, in that it targets tax decreases for laudable purposes and for the people who need those benefits most," Mr. Florio said. "The Republican approach is income redistribution the wrong way.
Finally, Mr. Torricelli must look to his own re-election in 2002. And in a state that he says is one of the most tax-sensitive in the country, pushing for deeper cuts can't hurt.
"I think people understand my role in this," he said. "While taxes are important to the country in general, they are are a particularly acute problem in New Jersey. With property and state and Federal taxes, we are perhaps the most taxed state in the nation."
The Senator's advocacy of a tax cut has annoyed some Democrats, who think he has gone too far in advancing a core Republican plank. It has also drawn hisses from liberal groups, who assert that his proposal to shrink the top bracket mainly helps the wealthy.
Mr. Torricelli says that is not so, that middle-class families earning $50,000 a year are being taxed at the highest rate. And he makes no bones about the fact that this is about helping middle-income people, and not the poor.
"These are incomes where people struggle," he said. "And the Federal Government has no business taxing them at that rate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Dao

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MEDICARE (72%); GUN CONTROL (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



24 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
All He Wanted Was a Little Respect

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: CAMDEN

 BODY:
MAYOR Milton Milan was on vacation last week, having wrapped up a stressful game of chicken with the state of New Jersey. He went to the office anyway and, shirtsleeves rolled up, was able to reflect on why he had filed for his city's bankruptcy and challenged its overseers in Trenton to take over his operation.
The Mayor wondered aloud how he could have done anything else. Since he had refused the state's demands for stricter monitoring of its finances, and since the state in turn had cut off its regular infusion of funds, Camden was running out of money. 
 "When you push a city that has nowhere else to go, you can only expect the actions that were taken," Mr. Milan said. "When you have nothing and you are asked to give something, you're going to do what I did."
The weeklong flare-up ended July 22 in an agreement that left Camden without the new state payments it had sought but with an assurance that the State Financial Review Board, which has looked over his shoulder for a year, would be reviewed annually.
Many described the Mayor's gestures as more theatrical than fiscal. That is of no apparent concern to Mr. Milan, who calls his performance "the shot heard round the state."
"I think the City of Camden, being the poorest city in New Jersey, will get a little more attention," he said. "Wall Street called. CNN called. It was newsworthy."
Then he said, "I think at the end, the state of New Jersey and the people at the bureaucracy level have a better perspective on who I am and on the city of Camden."
Milton Milan was born 36 years ago on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and moved to Camden at age 9. He grew up on public assistance, according to a script that plays out across the city: "The story doesn't change: a poor Latino kid raised in urban area with abandoned buildings and nets with no rims, playing handball, playing in front of fire hydrants in the summer. Fights on the streets, brushes with the law, the friends who died or were arrested, or AIDS touched their lives one way or another."
As for the city, the Mayor puts a diplomatic gloss on Camden's dependency, while taking the honor-of-the-streets view that Camden is owed a little respect.
"What last week was about was making that recommitment," he said, recalling that Governor Whitman came to Camden to congratulate him when he was elected in 1997. "Partners look out for each other. Partners talk. They communicate. We don't want a handout."
Actually, the city does want a handout. Last summer, Mrs. Whitman pledged $15 million to close Camden's budget gap but installed the review board to supervise the city's finances.
Camden's tax base has been depleted by what Mr. Milan described as "people leaving their keys in the front door and walking away and the big businesses walking out of the city." Half the city's property is tax-exempt, and Camden gets no sales tax from its waterfront attractions, the New Jersey State Aquarium and the Sony E-Center Amphitheater. The city's unemployment rate is 13 percent and the per-capita income is $7,276, as against neighboring Cherry Hill, where the per-capita income is $24,458. In Newark, the per-capita income is $9,424.
State aid to Camden, including school aid, amounts to more than $3,000 a year for each resident. The state has taken over the police force. Services have been stripped. And still the city has a deficit of $24 million in its $111 million budget.
During the week of crisis, while Mr. Milan warned of police cars without gasoline and employees without paychecks, City Council members generally supported him. The day after the bankruptcy filing, the Council approved his request to petition the Superior Court for a state takeover of day-to-day operations.
But Councilman Gilbert Wilson said in an interview that "the method could have been different," adding that Council members had suffered the embarrassment of learning about the bankruptcy petition from reporters hours after the Mayor filed it.
State officials maintained that the city had no authority to file for bankruptcy in Federal Court and could not be declared insolvent because the money was in the offing as soon as the Mayor accepted its terms.
Mr. Milan declared that he was willing to step aside, letting state officials decide how to collect garbage and maintain playgrounds. In the interview last week, he insisted that he did believe that that could happen. "Not only did it cross my mind," he said, "but I found peace with myself in being able to live with that decision.
"I already knew in my mind at the end of this battle if it meant giving up my position as Mayor, at whatever level, I was prepared to do that," he said, "because this activist who crossed the line and became a political official, knowing what being poor and not having anything meant, knew that the bottom line was getting the service delivered. So whether I deliver it my style, or the state delivers it their style, the residents were going to get the services."
Being poor is a theme with Mr. Milan.
"I didn't have the luxury of going to college and getting out of an urban area and my life changes," he said. "My savior and support has been my mother and a four-year tour in the United States Marine Corps."
A few years later, having become a carpenter, he returned to Camden and started his own construction company. He was not yet 30.
Mr. Milan was elected to City Council in 1995, running outside the regular Democratic slate. By the time he ran for mayor, the Camden County Democratic Party had befriended him and provided formidable support. Mr. Milan won a five-way race with 40 percent of the vote.
The election of Camden's first Hispanic mayor reflected its demographic shifts. Latinos make up 32 percent of Camden's 84,000 residents, up from 19 percent in 1980; African-Americans make up about 58 percent.
Despite his comfortable position in the county party organization, the Mayor still styles himself as an insurgent. And in discussing the powers in Trenton -- especially the review board -- he grew irritated, leaning his jumbo frame across his desk and extending his arms for emphasis.
"Don't let me be answering to a group of people who have their own political aspirations, who come down here once a month and try to figure out the problems of the city in three hours," he said. "I'm here every day, 65 hours a week, and they're going to tell me whether or not I need sweepers, or whether we should afford to buy four or five police cars?"
He was careful to give Mrs. Whitman the benefit of the doubt, saying that the review board "hasn't allowed the voice of people of Camden to reach the ears of the Governor," but he returned to the notion of a state-city partnership with some resentment.
"They called it a partnership, but this partner had barbed wire around his ankles," he said. "There was only so much of that that the city would take."
The Mayor allows that Camden's prime problem is not the state but the earlier devastation of its tax base. "That has been the crisis in the city of Camden," he said, "along with lack of vision, a lack of leadership."
Councilman Wilson, often mentioned as a possible opponent in the mayor's race of 2001, agreed that Mr. Milan had been saddled with the city's mess. "He's doing the best he could be doing," Mr. Wilson said.
Mr. Milan does have some vocal enemies. One is Councilman Ali Sloan El, who quarrels openly with the Mayor and often points out financial irregularities to the review board. Frank J. Fulbrook, a civic activist allied with Mr. Sloan El, said the Mayor was effective when he wanted to be, citing his promising efforts to bring the battleship New Jersey to Camden. But Mr. Fulbrook called the Mayor "a disappointment" and his bankruptcy maneuver "a hollow victory."
"Were not going to be any more viable a year from now than we are today," Mr. Fulbrook said.
Mr. Milan said he had not decided whether to run for re-election. He sold his interest in his contracting company when he became a councilman, and he said his only construction activity was the constant renovation of the big house in East Camden where he lives with his wife, Kathy, and their three children, ages 13, 10 and 10 months.
He seemed pleased to point out that neighbors find him mowing the lawn.
"My kids," he added, "are out there picking up trash."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: During a week of crisis, Mayor Milan of Camden, addressing the Financial Oversight Board, warned of police cars without gasoline and city employees without paychecks. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGETS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: MILTON MILAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



25 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB;
Unauthorized Days to Remember

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

 BODY:
People may use terms like truancy and playing hooky. But as the mail indicates, sometimes a little unauthorized time off from work can lift the spirit and refresh the soul -- if you don't get caught.
One summer Friday, when he was Philadelphia bureau chief for The Associated Press, George Zucker decided to spend a day at the race track. "If there's any emergency, call the clubhouse," he told his deputy. "The maitre d' has a telephone." 
 Sure enough, writes Mr. Zucker, who is now retired and lives in Haverford, Pa., "just as I was getting down to some serious losing, the maitre d' came to the table and said my office was on the phone."
The caller was the deputy. "New York needs to talk to you right away," he said. "I told them you were on the road, and I would try to track you down."
Mr. Zucker writes: "Public phones weren't available during racing hours, so the track's public relations guy said I could use the one in his office. He showed me to his desk and closed the door.
"Just as my boss came on the line, the stentorian voice of the track announcer boomed from an office speaker: 'The horses for the fifth race are now entering the track!' "
"Having found our dream house in another state, my wife and I considered ourselves fortunate to find jobs in the same company," writes Will Hall, a scientist who is now retired and living in Springvale, Me. She was a secretary to a vice president; he was a research supervisor.
But they soon found their workplace unfriendly. "Driving to work one morning, we joked about playing truant until we thought of a way we could work it," Mr. Hall writes.
"We found a phone, and I called my office to say that we were terribly ill, perhaps from the slightly odd-tasting fried shrimp we'd had for dinner. Then we drove to Atlantic City, where we saw a couple of shows, enjoyed some good food and drinks and very carefully avoided getting too much sun.
"Several days later, as we were driving to work, we were struck by the idea of trying it again; but we thought better of it and determined that we had better find new jobs. Still, it would have been fun to call in sick again and tell them we had finished the fried shrimp."
One day, Kathy Gambrell of Washington decided to award herself a day off from her job as an office manager for a doctor and to pay a visit to Baltimore's Inner Harbor. So she called her boss and said she was caring for a sick relative.
The boss said that since she had to go to an all-day meeting anyhow, it was O.K. for Ms. Gambrell to miss work.
So Ms. Gambrell wasted no time boarding an Amtrak train for Baltimore. "And who should get on the same train, sitting two seats in front of me on the Metroliner?" Ms. Gambrell writes. "My boss, headed to an all-day conference in Baltimore.
"She never said whether she saw me or not, though I assume she did. I was wearing shorts, a T-shirt and sandals and did not exactly have an elderly relative in tow.
The lesson: "Always find out where your boss is going to be and be somewhere else."
In the summer of 1969, Martin Wakesberg, now of Burnt Hills, N.Y., was 20 years old and working at his first full-time summer job, as a file clerk for a scrap metal company in Manhattan.
"I was scheduled to work July and August with no time off, as my raison d'etre was to fill in for the regular employees who would take vacation," he said. "But of course, as everyone knows, this was the summer of Woodstock, and all my friends were going. What to do?"
He called in sick and went.
"The following Monday I went to work as scheduled. Later that morning, I was filing papers and daydreaming about the past weekend when my supervisor came up behind me and said quite matter of factly, 'So, how was Woodstock?' Without missing a beat, I turned and replied, 'Great!'
"He just smiled and walked away."
Mr. Wakesberg's epilogue: "To this day, I have used my sick days honestly."
"Use truancy as a tool," is the advice to managers from Audri J. Carr, the manager of new product sourcing and a project team leader at Lucas Aerospace, a division of TRW in Aurora, Ohio. "Use it as a reward. Be understanding. Promote it quietly and within reason."
Ms. Carr, who believes that more time off than a standard two weeks a year fosters creativity, loyalty and productivity, cites the example of a manager in her group who runs three times a week.
"He has now been joined by several other engineers who run with him," she writes from Shaker Heights, Ohio. "Lunch is supposed to be 30 minutes. What with the four-mile run itself, changing clothes, then showering and changing back, that time pushes one and one-quarter hours at least. At first it bothered me. Was he abusing the time out for lunch? Then I decided the real question was: Did he perform on the job? Were his assignments completed well and on time? The answer was yes. So let them run. Running is a great stress reliever."
Ms. Carr writes that she would rather manage "a motivated, productive employee than one with perfect attendance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); MARYLAND, USA (50%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (58%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); MARYLAND, USA (50%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (58%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (68%); 

PERSON: KATHY GAMBRELL (71%); GEORGE ZUCKER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



26 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Volkswagen Jetta;
A Workhorse Adds Punch And Curves

BYLINE: By LEONARD M. APCAR 

 BODY:
HE sassy New Beetle has become a highly recognizable symbol of Volkswagen's resurgence in the United States, but the real workhorse in the showroom has been the company's best seller -- the less retro, more roomy Jetta sedan.
The American small-car market has been dominated by Japanese auto makers who have churned out sturdy, sporty models year after year. Volkswagen, after a decade of dwindling sales and quality problems, has undergone something of a renaissance lately by re-energizing its styling with fresh, curvaceous lines, refocusing its advertisements to attract young buyers and recalculating how it dresses up its cars. 
 The Jetta had pretty much been an also-ran to the coolly efficient Honda Civic, one of the best-selling small cars, and other foreign entries. VW was also hurt by a reputation for slipshod quality, though it seems to have made some solid gains on that score lately.
This year, on the heels of New Beetlemania and a midsized Passat that got plenty of praise from most car critics, VW is offering a restyled Jetta, the four-door-with-a-trunk based on its hatchback sibling, the Golf. With the Jetta, VW is trying to take on the pint-sized competition by offering a more spirited car under the hood with a lot of standard features and people-pleasing details inside. Starting at $17,325, compared with $13,200 for the lowest-priced Civic DX sedan or $15,245 for the best-selling Civic LX version, VW is boldly suggesting that although these cars are about the same size, more money buys a lot more car.
This was no small gamble for VW, because so many buyers in this market make up their minds based on reputation and value, two categories in which the Japanese, especially Honda, have excelled. But so far, the strategy is paying off: sales of the new Jetta are up 26 percent over last year while sales of Civic sedans are off a bit this year.
In a test of both the Jetta GL, the least-costly version, and a Honda Civic sedan, I found that while you quickly sense the Jetta's power and acceleration, its handling was not as proficient as the Honda's. The Jetta leaned slightly but noticeably in turns, and the engine and suspension produced a tad more road noise and a harsher ride than that of the smoothly competent Civic.
But the Jetta stood out in two aspects. One is its delightful styling. Big, bold wheel openings play off a smooth, arcing roof that provides a styling touchstone for all VW models and echoes through to the arched eyebrow over the instrument cluster. I loved the way the top half of the adjustable steering wheel, like the bigger Passat's, lined up neatly with the curve of the dash in front of me. And the gauges, backlit with neon blue and highlighted with bright red needles, finished off an eye-catching, sporty cockpit.
The other plus is that the product planners have done their homework. They have studied the Civic and other popular small cars feature by feature and either matched the competition or gone them one better. The stripped-down Jetta GL comes with many touches that other auto makers put only on higher-line models. It has air-conditioning, power locks, a compact disk player and a keyless locking system. Honda Civics offer these features, but only on the more expensive LX and EX versions.
In the safety area, VW has two front air bags and two side air bags in both front seats. The Civic has two front bags, none on the side. On the Jetta, anti-lock brakes are standard; the Civic includes this crucial safety feature only on its top-of-the-line EX, which starts at $17,145 with a manual transmission.
Also, the Jetta has three adjustable head restraints in its rear seat, with lap-and-shoulder belts for three passengers, too. The Civic has two built-in headrests and lap-and-shoulder belts; there is only a lap belt for the center passenger.
The Civic is a larger car, with a wheelbase four inches longer and an overall length three inches beyond the Jetta's. The difference is seen in the Civic's leg room, which is slightly better, both front and rear, though VW improved the Jetta's leg space this year by an inch over the previous model.
The Jetta has the larger trunk -- though neither could swallow my bag of golf clubs. For that, I used the folding rear seat to stow them lengthwise. Both the Civic and the Jetta have lockable, folding, two-piece rear seat backs in 60/40 splits. Smartly, though, VW has placed the locks for the seat backs near the passenger doors on both sides of the seat; Honda's one lock is in the center, requiring you to get in the seat and turn around to unlock it.
Up front, the Jetta is powered by a 2-liter four-cylinder engine with a cast-iron block and two valves in each cylinder. Its 115 horsepower is plentiful, but what is truly impressive is its considerable torque at modest speeds. It does not do much for fuel economy, however. With a five-speed manual gearbox, the Jetta registers a so-so mileage rating of 24 city and 31 highway; the rating is 22/28 with a four-speed automatic.
Earlier this year, VW added a turbo-charged, direct-injection diesel to its Jetta line. The 2-liter engine gets a whopping 42/ 49 miles a gallon; prices start at $18,520.
By contrast, the Civic's leanly efficient base engine -- a 1.6-liter, aluminum-block four-cylinder -- produces 106 horses and manages a thrifty 32/37 miles a gallon with a five-speed manual (28/35 with a four-speed automatic). This is the first gasoline engine to meet California's tough low-emission standard.
Both the Jetta and the Civic offer bigger engines on more expensive versions. VW has a top-of-the-line GLX with a 2.8-liter, 174 horsepower V6. The Honda Civic EX uses Honda's variable-valve-timing technology for a more efficient, cleaner engine that produces 127 horsepower from a 1.6-liter, four-cylinder power plant. The V6 Jettas begin at more than $20,000; fully loaded, they exceed -- gulp -- $24,000.
While the Jetta struck me as a very well conceived car, I did catch a few goofs. One was that the neatly adjustable cup holders that pop out of the dash obstruct access to a storage bin and the driver's view of the top of the stereo. And while the sun visors include lighted vanity mirrors for both front occupants, the mirrors are covered by lids that, when you flip them up, block the light embedded in the ceiling.
And one final annoyance. The windshield wipers kept noisily slapping the body of the car. Was this bad adjustment or a Janis Joplin retro touch?
 
INSIDE TRACK -- A small car with some big-car touches but a not-so-trim price.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: With the Jetta, VW is trying to take on the pint-sized competition by offering more spirit under the hood and a lot of standard features and people-pleasing details inside.
 
Chart: "Compact Sedan Face Off" lists features and specifications for the Honda Civic LX and the Volkswagen Jetta GL.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (86%); 7267 (TSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); 

PERSON: APCAR, LEONARD M

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



27 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Japanese Nuptials in Exotic New York

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY STEVENS

 BODY:
THE wedding was scheduled to begin promptly at 11 A.M. The Rev. Richard Leonard paced back and forth in front of All Souls Unitarian Church at Lexington Avenue and 80th Street. Mr. Leonard, 71 and semiretired, has officiated at nearly 10,000 weddings.
Yet something was odd. Mr. Leonard said he had not met the young couple he was about to marry. "I rarely know their names until we meet out here at the curb," he said. "And then we continue inside to the parlor for a quick interview to acquaint ourselves before the ceremony begins." 
 The reason the minister had never seen the bride and groom is that they were recently arrived from Japan, part of a growing group of Japanese who go to New York to be married by Mr. Leonard or other ministers.
"These couples want every detail of a Western wedding," said Mr. Leonard, who added that most of the couples he marries these days are Japanese. They want that ceremonial walk down the aisle to "Here Comes the Bride," he said, "and even if they don't speak a word of English, they want to say their vows in English."
That was the case with Kyoko Hakamata, 25, and Makoto Yonekura, 29, the couple for whom Mr. Leonard was waiting. "We met at a dinner party in Tokyo and soon after decided to get married," Ms. Hakamata said through a translator after the wedding. "We both knew we wanted it to be in New York. We are getting our picture taken on the Brooklyn Bridge with all the skyscrapers in the background to show everyone we're on top of the world."
Mr. Leonard estimated that he had married more than 600 Japanese couples in the last 10 years, with the number of weddings increasing significantly in the last three years.
"This summer I'll average about three Japanese couples a week," he said. "And that's pretty good considering the economy over there." Most of the couples are married by Unitarian ministers, sometimes in a church, sometimes at famous places in New York.
The ceremonies are just part of the deal. Typically, Japanese couples sign up for wedding packages. The deals offered by Japanese travel agencies in New York often include limousines, flowers, tuxedo and gown rental, hotel accommodations and, most important, photographs and videotapes to record every step.
Mr. Leonard deals regularly with three agencies -- one is Aysulu New York, which arranged the wedding of Ms. Hakamata and Mr. Yonekura -- and he knows of five others.
Geoffrey Tudor, a spokesman for Japan Air Lines, said the Japanese first became interested in overseas marriage about 30 years ago, with the release of "Blue Hawaii," a 1961 Elvis Presley movie that featured a wedding in that state.
At the beginning, "The overseas wedding trend was something for the wealthy to indulge in," Mr. Tudor said. But prices have fallen, he said, and last year 49,000 Japanese couples traveled on Japan Air Lines to the United States to be married, up from 11,000 in 1989.
Noriko Tomaru, a wedding coordinator and photographer who started Aysulu three years ago, said wedding packages now constitute more than half her business. And New York, she said, is on the rise as a destination.
"For a while, Hawaii and California were the hot spots," said Ms. Tomaru, who advertises in several bridal magazines in Japan as well as three Japanese newspapers in New York. "But since New York has become so safe and clean, it's become the trendiest among young Japanese couples."
Many Japanese are fascinated by New York; there is a weekly television show in Japan that does nothing but profile ordinary New Yorkers.
"They want everything in their albums from the Empire State Building to the World Trade Center to Times Square," Ms. Tomaru said of her marriage-bound clients.
Ms. Tomaru's packages cost $5,000 to $25,000, exclusive of hotel costs and plane tickets. The basic package includes the wedding ceremony, limousine rental and flowers, and a videotape and a photograph album as keepsakes.
"We spend most of our time making a beautiful video and album, because most of the couples return to Japan and throw a large reception and show the video on a wide screen," Ms. Tomaru said.
Couples vary widely in their budgets. "Many of the brides and grooms rent their attire down in Chinatown," Ms. Tomaru said. "But I have the girls that want to buy from Vera Wang, too."
And while some couples head back to Japan the day after the wedding, many stay for a week to soak up the sights. Some fly to Disney World, a popular honeymoon spot for the Japanese.
Enchantment with New York is not the only reason Japanese people flock here to tie the knot. A traditional wedding in Japan can cost $50,000 to $150,000. The reasons: Everyone from both extended families must be invited and receive a gift, and kimonos, wigs and other customary accouterments are expensive. The only alternative is a plain civil ceremony.
One side effect of the marriage migration to New York, Mr. Leonard said, is his own fame of sorts overseas. "It's funny to think about how many wedding videos I've been in," he said, showing a picture of himself in a Japanese bridal magazine. "Many of the couples who come to get married recognize me."
Back at All Souls, Mr. Leonard paced a few more moments and then caught sight of a white stretch limousine desperately trying to switch lanes to pull up in front of the church. Ms. Hakamata giggled nervously as she got out of the limousine, a trail of fluffy taffeta floating behind. Mr. Yonekura circled her nervously as he checked his spiky hairdo in the side mirror. Her parents sheepishly got out after them. "Welcome to New York," Mr. Leonard said loudly, shaking their hands at curbside.
A Toyota Corolla, which had screeched to a halt in front of the church just moments before, looked like a clown car as a surprising number of people piled out: a photographer and his assistant, a videographer, a stylist, a translator and a driver. They hauled out a bundle of equipment and jumped into action to make sure they got pictures of the minister greeting the wedding party.
A half-hour later, after the couple rehearsed their vows in English and were coached about the kiss -- not a tradition in Japan -- the organist began a passionate rendition of "Here Comes the Bride." The couple entered the empty, guestless church, which can seat 550. The bride's mother was led down the aisle by the limousine driver.
After the short ceremony, the couple sat on the steps in front of the altar and spoke about their lives and how they met as the videographer taped and the photographer snapped away. They nodded to Mr. Leonard. Ms. Hakamata smiled and said in uncertain English, "We wanted to get married in New York because it's the best city in the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Leonard, who has presided at 600 Japanese weddings, does the honors for Makoto Yonekura and Kyoko Hakemata. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times and Noriko Tomaru inset )
 
Chart: "TALLY: For the Album"
Most Japenese couples who are married in New York want to be photographed near a city landmark. These are the spots most requested by the 250 couples who have been clients of Aysulu New York, a travel agency, since 1996.
 
Central Park -- 75 percent
"It's convenient, and they all want to take a carriage ride," said Noriko Tomaru, Aysulu's owner.
 
Brooklyn Bridge -- 60 percent
"It's the only place where you can get the whole skyline in the picture."
 
Times Square -- 50 percent
"The ones that have the guts love it, but a lot of them get shy at the last minute and back out." because of the large crowds.
 
Statue of Liberty -- 30 percent
"It's not as popular because it is hard to get to."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9201 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (87%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD E LEONARD (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



28 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Media Companies Adding Web Cachet

BYLINE: By ERIC QUINONES

 BODY:
INVESTORS in search of long-term growth in Internet companies may want to heed this adage: Brands rule.
In some ways, that may seem a subversive notion these days. After all, scores of freshly minted dot-com stocks have climbed to dizzying valuations, and many Web-focused investors have bypassed the old-line media companies that control brand-name magazines, music, movies and other so-called content with Internet potential. 
 But Wall Street is betting that the situation is about to change, as traditional media companies accelerate their efforts to gain on-line advertisers and audiences.
Three companies leading the charge are Time Warner, Walt Disney and CBS. "We know the products that they offer, and we've come to expect a certain level of quality from them versus some newbie who comes out of nowhere and claims that on the Web they're the hottest thing," said Mark Hardie, a senior analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass.
And these companies can cross-promote their efforts, giving them a leg up on independent content providers.
All three companies have announced deals in recent weeks that add to their Internet assets, but the moves have caused little stir in their stock prices. "I'd say that value is not being recognized in the marketplace right now." said Tom Barrett, an analyst with MFS Investment Management, a money manager in Boston.
So investors who hope to gain from such stocks may have to think long-term. Tom Wolzein, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York, expects the percentage of cash flow that these companies derive from the Web, an amount now negligible, to climb into the double digits over the next four to five years as they expand their on-line businesses. Cash flow is a good benchmark for media company profitability.
The on-line build-up is under way. Time Warner, for example, said on July 13 that it would merge Columbia House, the record club it owns with Sony, with the on-line music store CDnow. Time Warner will own 37 percent of the new company, which by the end of the year will offer music that can be downloaded directly from the Internet -- the hot new market for music.
After the CDnow deal was announced, Mr. Wolzein raised his 12-month price target for Time Warner stock by 28 percent, to nearly $91 a share, citing the company's overall Internet profit potential. The shares closed Friday at $72.
Assuming that the overall on-line advertising market continues to flourish, Mr. Wolzien projected that in 2001, Time Warner would have cash flow of $8.7 billion, of which 3 percent would be from Internet businesses. By 2004, he said, cash flow would reach $12 billion, with the Internet portion climbing to 11 percent of the total.
Time Warner has also moved to correct one misstep. It is phasing out its Pathfinder site -- a platform for magazines including Time and Money. Users tended to skip its home page and go directly to the magazine Web sites.
Instead, the company will focus on hub sites for target audiences, combining related magazines with links to the Web sites of other Time Warner properties, including WarnerBros.com and CNN.com.
Disney's Internet business took a big leap last year, when the company bought about 42 percent of Infoseek, an on-line search service, and then created its own portal, the Go Network. Together, the destinations are the fifth-most-popular Web property, according to Media Metrix, an Internet research company in New York.
On July 12, the company announced plans to buy the rest of Infoseek and merge all of Disney's Internet holdings into a new company that it will control, Go.com. Shares in the new company will be offered publicly through a tracking stock -- meaning that the assets continue to be owned by Disney but that the share price effectively tracks the performance of those assets. Disney can use the tracking stock for acquisitions.
Disney's stock has been struggling this year, in part because of falling merchandise sales. But Jill S. Krutick, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, expects the shares to rise from their current $27.4375 to the mid-$30's in the next year, partly because of Disney's Internet investments.
Mr. Wolzien expects Disney's on-line business to account for 4 percent of $5.8 billion in cash flow in 2001, rising to 14 percent of $8.6 billion in cash flow in 2004.
AT CBS, the strategy has been to tap into existing Web-based businesses. The company bought positions in several specialized Internet companies -- including Marketwatch.com, Sportsline USA, Medscape and Rx.com -- in exchange for millions of dollars' worth of promotion across its TV and radio properties. CBS is also reportedly developing a portal similar to the Go Network.
Mr. Wolzien projected that CBS would report cash flow of $2.5 billion in 2001, 5 percent of which would be from on-line holdings, with cash flow rising to $4.1 billion in 2004, 10 percent of it from the Internet. James Marsh, an analyst at Prudential Securities, expects CBS shares to hit $51 in 12 months, up from $43.9375 on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo/Drawing: Time Warner, CBS and Disney are leaders in the charge by established media concerns to increase their Internet assets. (Drawing by Chris Gould)
 
Graph: "As Old Line Goes on Line"
Cash flow from Internet assets is expected to grow at major media companies, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of total cash flow. Graph plots Projected cash flow from Internet assets for CBS, Disney and Time Warner from 2001 through 2004. (Source: Sanford C. Bernstein on Line)
 
Cash flow from Internet assets is expected to grow at major media companies, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of total cash flow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS INTERNET & WWW (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); CASH FLOW (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); MUSIC STORES (85%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); BONDS (79%); BRANDING (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MUSIC (76%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



29 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Counting Coinages In Jargon

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
IF terms like "administrivia" and "elephant hunt" make you scratch your head, you are not alone. It sometimes seems that American businesses coin new jargon faster than anyone can keep up with. For evidence, look no further than the E-mail in-box of W. Davis Folsom.
Dr. Folsom, a business professor at the University of South Carolina-Aiken, makes a study of business jargon, which he said appears to be becoming both more prevalent and more confusing. He recently updated a jargon dictionary he compiled just two years ago and found himself adding more than 500 terms. 
 He also maintains a modest jargon Web site, www.duesouth.net/dfolsom, and receives many E-mail queries from visitors to the site.
Lately, as the stock market has alternately roared and coasted, Dr. Folsom says he has received more queries that go beyond simple market terms like "Big Board" and "basis point" to arcane expressions like "dead cat bounce" (a derisive term for a sudden rise in a downtrodden stock, from the adage "even a dead cat will bounce").
Most of the mystifying jargon Dr. Folsom is asked to explain is technological, not financial, in origin -- like "chip jewelry" (an out-of-date computer) or a "plug-and-play employee" (someone with the skills and knowledge to walk into a job and be productive immediately).
He is still pondering the full meaning of the computer-industry term "V.A.R.," for value-added reseller -- a dealer who does something to make the merchandise she handles more valuable -- which now seems to be stretching to take in some categories of computer consultants.
And he sees daily evidence of how American jargon can confuse foreigners, from the Israeli college student who couldn't imagine what a "cash cow" might be to the woman in Brazil who was stumped by the phrase "take no prisoners" in a business context.
Still trying to decode "administrivia"? Dr. Folsom defines it as trivial reports and bureaucratic busywork. "Elephant hunt"? Enticing a major corporation to move into a community, stimulating economic development.
When it comes to being understood, American business lingo, it seems, isn't plug and play. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (51%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (51%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (51%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: W DAVIS FOLSOM (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



30 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Makes Canada a Land Ofthe Spree

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario

 BODY:
LOVE brought them here, but the cheap Canadian dollar kept them from leaving.
Joseph Carte and Annette Lovejoy drove for two days from their home in Cottageville, W. Va., to Niagara Falls, N.Y., to get married, but the prices they found on a brief tour on the Canadian side of the Niagara River persuaded them to tie the knot here. The clincher was the exchange rate they received for their American dollars at a local bank. "We gave them $300," the new bride exulted, "and they gave us $432 back." 
 The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie (for the bird on the back of the dollar coin), has been on a two-year descent that some people say is a little bit crazy. Although it perked up a bit in the first half of this year, gaining more than 3 American cents, to 68.9 cents on May 4, it has since turned down again, closing on Friday at 66.4 cents.
The longer-term decline, which economists attribute to the continuing fallout from the 1997 world financial crisis, has prompted a bargain-hunting boom by Americans. They are saving money by boarding flights to the Caribbean from Canada, placing mail orders in Canada, buying vacation homes in Canada and even sending their children to college in Canada.
Homeless Americans, too, are discovering the Canadian advantage. Sheridan Lee Taylor, 25, headed for Vancouver nine months ago from Utah with $600 in his pocket and never looked back. "It lasted me quite some time," he said. "Six hundred dollars American turned into $1,000 here, easy."
Of course, not all things Canadian are bargains. Certain products -- notably gasoline and alcohol -- remain far cheaper in the United States because of higher Canadian taxes. And other goods are routinely priced to reflect currency values; a book, for example, might be stamped "US $27.50/$45.00 CAN."
But whenever a currency is strong, there are good prices to be had in markets away from home, and the United States dollar is king around the world these days. Despite a recent surge, the euro has fallen 8.2 percent against the greenback in 7 months, and countries from Colombia to Thailand have found their currencies losing value against the dollar. The hegemony is making it cheaper for Americans to honeymoon in Paris or to vacation in Brazil. But Canada is closer to home, so it gets more than its share of American visitors out to get the biggest bang for their bucks.
Americans made a record 43.9 million visits to Canada last year, up 8.4 percent from the previous record of 40.5 million in 1997, when the Canadian dollar began its dive, according to the Canadian Governent. The American visitors threw their money around, too, spending a record $8.6 billion in 1998, up 24 percent from $6.9 billion in 1997, in United States dollars. And travel industry executives say the numbers have almost certainly risen this year.
American companies are also getting in on the action, spending $12.7 billion (United States) on acquisitions in Canada last year, up 70 percent from $7.5 billion in 1997 and nearly three times the $4.4 billion in 1994, according to KPMG Corporate Finance of Toronto.
"In a way, we're kind of another Mexico," said Ross H. Chafe, the president of Flags Unlimited in Barrie, Ontario. Last year, Aberdeen Fabrics of Aberdeen, N.C., bought a controlling stake in the company, which makes a half-million Canadian flags a year. "It was relatively cheap for them to invest in Canada," Mr. Chafe said, "and the dollar allows us to compete very well in the American market."
BUT this is also a game for weekend warriors, not just big players. Last year, about 20,000 Americans who live near the Canadian border drove to Canadian airports to fly to places like Jamaica, Cancun and Las Vegas on package tours sold by Signature Vacations of Toronto, according to Chris C. Robinson, the company's national marketing director. That's twice as many as in 1996.
"What we're seeing is a very significant increase over the last two years," Mr. Robinson said. He has been advertising in Rochester and Buffalo newspapers to draw attention to the bargains. "We've really stepped that up over the last couple of years to ride the wave," he said.
Americans don't even have to leave home to take advantage of the favorable exchange rate. Motorcycle riders, for example, can log onto the Internet to order oil filters, luggage and other accessories sent by mail from Wolf BMW in Alisa Craig, Ontario, halfway between Detroit and Toronto.
"The mail-order business is something we got going about a year and a half ago in response to the Canadian dollar being so weak," said Christine C. McQueen, a co-owner of Wolf BMW. "We sell quite a bit of stuff across the border."
American students are flocking to college in Canada, also because the price is right. There were 2,917 Americans studying in Canada during the 1997-98 academic year, according to the latest available figures from the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada. That is up from about 2,400 a year in the early to mid-90's.
Michael Reed, 18, of New Haven, N.Y., plans to attend the University of Toronto, a prestigious Canadian school where a partial scholarship will winnow down the costs to $8,000 a year.
"He'd been to Toronto and seen the school, but it wasn't really playing into his thoughts much -- or ours," said his father, William J. Reed. "But in looking at the money and how far our dollars would go, it made tremendous sense."
Americans are also buying vacation retreats in Canada. Keith D. Hodson of Stevensville, Mont., a manager for Para-Chem, an adhesives maker, just bought a third home, a two-bedroom condominium 16 floors above downtown Vancouver in a building called the Venice. The price was 280,000 loonies -- only $188,000 in American money. The exchange rate "just makes it a much better buy," Mr. Hodson said.
Matthew Brubeck, 38, of Berkeley, Calif., said he and his wife were also considering buying a place in Canada. A cellist in the band of the rock singer Sheryl Crow, Mr. Brubeck recently visited Vancouver on the Lilith Fair concert tour.
"If we came up to Vancouver and bought property, we could get an apartment in the city and a ranch 30 miles outside of the city," Mr. Brubeck said. "The American dollar being so strong would definitely affect a decision to buy property in Canada."
As American tourists throw money around across the border, the ever-polite Canadians are holding their noses as they pocket the cash.
Robin N. Rootes, 23, a waitress in Vancouver, says the big tips she receives from American customers more than make up for their sometimes arrogant attitudes. "They come over and spend and say they can spend as much as they want," Ms. Rootes said. "Yes, they are demanding, and yes, they are high-maintenance." But, compared with the natives, they tend to leave more loonies and toonies (the nickname for Canada's $2 coins) on the table.
"Quite honestly, we're going to make money off of them," she said.
Ben C. Giles, 18, a recent high school graduate, is making his money by handing out coupons for Circus World, a shop on the tourist drag here on the Canadian side of the falls, working from a post between the roaring water and an oversized Frankenstein holding a hamburger.
"So many people are coming over, so a lot of the students get jobs," said Mr. Giles, resplendent in white makeup, a clown suit and a fuzzy wig with red, yellow, green, blue and purple stripes. Still, he shakes his head in annoyance at the Americans who ask him what time Niagara Falls is turned off.
The weak dollar is good news for Canadian exporters, too, because their goods cost less in American dollars. As a result, Canada's trade surplus with the United States widened by 7.7 percent last year, to $16.65 billion. By the end of May this year -- the most recent figures available -- it had more than doubled, to $11.2 billion from $5.3 billion in the comparable period last year.
THE losers, of course, are Canadian consumers, who have to pay more for American imports and can only dream about the bargain-hunting trips they once made south of the border. Maxinne Cheng, who manages a store in Vancouver's tourist district, said she missed her trips to Seattle, three hours away by car, where she used to shop.
"There has been an exact switch," Ms. Cheng said. "Five years ago, we would go down to Seattle to get good deals. Now the Americans come here for shopping."
The latest figures from the Canadian Government show that day trips by Canadians to the United States dropped 11 percent last year, to 31.9 million, the lowest level in more than a decade and about half the 60 million in 1991.
As the effects of the powerful American dollar reverberate across Canada, Canadian nationalists are fuming about economic imperialism. "There has been a fire sale of Canadian assets and an influx of foreign capital," said Peter S. Bleyer, executive director of the Council of Canadians, a nonprofit advocacy group in Ottawa. "It is about taking existing economic assets out of the hands of Canadians."
He fears that in times of trouble, American companies will let their hearts overrule their wallets and close factories in Canada before laying off employees at home.
But these are good times for Americans, and for now, many of them are gambling on the cheap Canadian dollar -- sometimes literally, in the casinos in several high-traffic spots along the border. Even those who win, though, may wonder if their returns are all that great.
Ike Baker, 56, recently made the one-hour drive from his home in Depew, N.Y., to show Niagara Falls to visiting relatives, and he tried his luck at craps at a casino here. "I started with 40 Canadian dollars," Mr. Baker said. "I won $150; I lost $50 back."
Then he cashed in his $100 winnings, received just $60 in American currency, and asked himself this: "Where's all the money?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As more Americans cross the border to take advantage of the strong United States dollar, Canadians are finding service jobs plentiful. Ben C. Giles, above, hands out coupons near Niagara Falls, and exchange rates are posted, below, in a gift shop nearby. American tourists find the prices right in Niagara Falls, Ontario. Stan and Karen Stone of Manchester, N.H., with their children, Colin and Alexandra, visited recently. (Photographs by Phil Matt for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Chart: "Canada Is Calling"
With the strengthening of the American dollar, Americans are driving north to save money. All prices are in U.S. dollars.
 
Saturday stay at Days Inn, with Jacuzzi
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.: $260
NIAGARA FALLS, ONTARIO: $165
 
Whopper with cheese at Burger King
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.: $2.39
NIAGARA FALLS, ONTARIO: $2.18
 
Lauryn Hill compact disk
SEATTLE: $17.99
VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA: $12.60
 
Nintendo 64 game system
SEATTLE: $130
VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA: $119
 
Grande latte at Starbucks
SEATTLE: $2.70
VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA: $2.29
 
Levi's 501 jeans at the Original Levi's Store
SEATTLE: $50
VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA: $45
 
Graphs: "Matters of Currency"
Graphs plot value of the Canadian dollar in American money, plotted weekly from 1995 through 1999, Total value of deals for United States acquisitions of Canadian companies from 1994 through 1998 and and number of American students studying full-time in Canada from 1994 through 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; KPMG Corporate Finance; Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%); THAILAND (72%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%); THAILAND (72%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE; CANADA MARRIAGE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); EURO (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (66%); ACQUISITIONS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



31 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Propelling Exchanges Into the Era Of the Chip

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
AMERICA'S biggest securities exchanges are under attack for the way they do business. The day of the buttonwood tree, under which the New York Stock Exchange was founded in 1792, are long gone, and the days of the specialist seem to be fading. The era of the button -- otherwise known as electronic communications networks, or E.C.N.'s -- seems to be moving in fast.
The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market, the big boys on the block, are feeling the heat. Last week, Nasdaq's board authorized stepped-up preparations for converting the exchange into a publicly traded company. The Big Board is considering a similar move. 
 Nasdaq's action came a day after Archipelago, an upstart E.C.N. that accounts for about 2 percent of Nasdaq's daily volume, said it intends to become a stock exchange.
Harold S. Bradley, a senior vice president at American Century Investments, has had it with the status quo. He took some time last week to speak his mind and to say why investors should care about the exchanges. Here are excerpts from the conversation.
 
Q. This whole push for change at the stock exchanges seems to have come suddenly. But you don't agree with that, do you?
 
A. Well, we started using Instinet, the first E.C.N., for our customers in 1989. And in 1992, the Securities and Exchange Commission put out its Market 2000 report, which contained a section on changing technology and its impact on markets.
At the time, Congress was worried that E.C.N.'s like Instinet might fragment, balkanize and segment the markets and asked for comment.
We filed a 24- to 25-page response relating to our needs and those of our investors. But we were one of only four investment firms that responded to that report.
So this has not happened overnight. The New York Stock Exchange has been so immune to technology that people were saying they didn't need to change. But the partners in Archipelago, and we are one of them, are saying there is a need for new mechanisms.
 
Q. Why should John Q. Investor give a hoot? Why change?
 
A. John Q. Investor should care because if he wants to save and get good returns on his investments, he wants to get maximum return on his invested dollar and not pay anyone any more than he has to. Currently, intermediaries take an awful lot of money away from those maximum returns.
If someone is adding value to generate returns, I am happy to pay them for it. But let me pay 2 people instead of 10.
 
Q. Could you amplify on that? What kind of manpower is involved in a Big Board trade?
 
A. If you want to buy a stock, you call a broker, and you do that on your own or through a mutual fund.
My trading desk then calls a sales trader, who calls the position trader who calls the floor broker, and then the floor broker goes to the specialist.
That is 6 people, which means 11 folks are involved once all is said and done. I find that completely absurd in today's world, and I have to pay each one of those people in that chain. A computer chip can get me on the floor in a nanosecond.
The New York exchange has spent a lot of money on technology, and they can process trades extremely efficiently. But the way stocks trade is still the same. They need to spend a lot on point-of-sale technology.
 
Q. Do you think the New York and Nasdaq markets would function better as for-profit organizations?
 
A. I think they would become more efficient if they went public. The only way to be successful in a public company is to align the interests of your customers with your business model. Nasdaq and the New York have some of the smartest people in the business. As I said before, these problems are not new and not unstudied.
But the staff at both is completely bridled and throttled by their own members, who hamstring any innovation that might impede their own economic self-interest.
 
Q. Some have raised concerns about conflicts of interest if the exchanges were for-profit entities. Do you share those worries?
 
A. I see far fewer conflicts of interest in a for-profit exchange than under the current system. You would have public owners and accountability.
 
Q. A month or so ago, Merrill Lynch upset its brokers when it decided to offer its clients access to low-cost on-line trading. Isn't this the other side of the same coin?
 
A. The Internet disintermediates. It takes out the middlemen who are not creating value. Now, there is a lot of value added in the process. But right now it is hard to figure out just what it costs and where it resides.
When you take intermediation out, it will wipe out those who are adding marginal or no value. Archipelago is the functional equivalent of Amazon.com for selling stocks. The New York Stock Exchange has to figure out a way to be Barnes & Noble.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Bradley

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS (78%); BONDS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



32 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3229 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
The American Middle, Just Getting By

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: CINCINNATI

 BODY:
TWO stately oaks on the front lawn grace the home of Tracey and Carrie Jones, and the front door opens onto a long, carpeted living room with a large fireplace at the far end. The Joneses linger in their living room, pointing out the view from a picture window, before showing a visitor two cramped bedrooms and a kitchen too small for a breakfast table.
The Joneses' single-story ranch house is definitely on the modest side in Madeira, a prosperous Cincinnati suburb. They bought it in 1995 for $132,000 -- the upper end of what they could afford. Their family income of $49,700 puts them, statistically, in the heart of the American middle class. But while Madeira would be an ideal setting for a movie about a middle-class family, the Joneses struggle to feel that they belong. 
 The robust economy of the last three years has lifted their family fortunes. Mr. Jones, 42, who designs machines that label plastic containers, has watched his salary rise 9 percent since 1996, to $43,500. Still, to make ends meet, he mows lawns in his off hours, making an additional $1,700. And Mrs. Jones, 37 and raising two children, provides a crucial extra by earning $4,500 as a part-time bookkeeper for her dentist.
"There are times when I feel comfortable about our lives," she said, "and there are times when I am with my friends -- most of whom are not working because their husbands make more than enough money -- and I wonder, 'What are Tracey and I doing wrong?' "
That a family taking in nearly $50,000 annually does not feel securely in the middle class may be understandable in expensive cities like New York or Los Angeles. But such sentiments are evident here in Cincinnati, too, where the cost of living is roughly equal to the national average and the median family income mirrors the nation's. Four middle-income families interviewed at length for this article say they do not think of themselves as middle-income. What looks good on paper does not, for them, translate into an easy life.
"Most people do not have any idea how the median family lives," said Christopher Jencks, a sociologist at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. "The biggest news is how budget-constrained these people really are."
In fact, middle-income families have been stuck in place for a decade, their incomes even losing ground to inflation through part of the 1990's, according to data from the Census Bureau. Only last year did the middle-income family finally make significant progress; the median income rose by more in 1998 than in any year since 1986. Yet, in contrast to earlier generations, these families don't see themselves as sharing in the national bounty. Instead, they wonder why they have to struggle so hard just to pay the bills.
"We have the impression from television and the media that our prosperity is huge, but that is not the middle-class experience," said Marc Miringoff, a Fordham University expert on social indicators and co-author of a new book, "The Social Health of the Nation" (Oxford University Press). "These families have had to work hard for their modest gains."
The median family income is somewhere between $46,500 and $50,000 a year, according to estimates by Census Bureau officials and private economists. (The Census Bureau will publish the exact 1998 figure next month and the 1999 median in September of next year.)
That means that half the nation's 71 million families earn more and can afford more than Tracey and Carrie Jones, and half earn less and must get by on less money.
Clearly, middle-income families in America have acquired more possessions than their parents and grandparents had. But the middle-class comforts of an earlier day were accessible to families with just one earner; today, middle-income families find that they must combine at least two incomes, and often three, in pursuit of a life style that seems always out of reach.
And they work harder each year to earn that income. A married couple with one or two children, for example, worked an average of 3,860 hours -- more than two full-time jobs -- in 1997, up from 3,236 hours in 1979, according to an analysis of Census Bureau data by the Economic Policy Institute. Only 28 percent of the nation's middle-income families scrape by with just one earner, the Census Bureau says, and that is usually because there is only one parent.
What worked for the last generation no longer works for this one. But ask the Cincinnati couples, who range in age from 25 to 65, to compare their lives with those of their parents, and they say that the exercise would not be relevant. Mr. Jones's father, for example, made lots of money in a machinery sales business he started at age 55, after struggling most of his adult life as a machinery salesman for others. "I won't accelerate as fast as he finally did," Mr. Jones said, "but I'll get there in time."
During the 1980's and early 1990's, when middle-income breadwinners were losing jobs right and left and incomes were stagnating, public opinion polls suggested that for the first time in generations, American families believed that their children would not do as well economically as their parents had. For now, that doubt has faded. While their lives are a constant, precarious struggle, with periodic setbacks, the four families here say they are making progress nevertheless.
"We are in a different time," said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "We do measure progress against our parents, but not that 'I will be better off at age 30 or 40.' It is, 'Am I going to end up being better off?' "
There are guideposts in this ill-defined journey, the most important being home ownership. All four families own modest homes that were bought for less than $140,000, the average price here. Three are on their second or third homes, having traded up each time. All the houses are air-conditioned, with showcase living rooms, and all are comfortably furnished, however small and cluttered the bedrooms and bathrooms.
Multiple car ownership is another common characteristic, though most of the vehicles were bought secondhand and some now have more than 100,000 miles on them. The families also have small stock portfolios, which have risen in value as the market has climbed, but in their eyes, the holdings are too small to spur spending. They view them instead as savings for retirement or a rainy day.
They all struggle to keep their spending in line with their earnings, showing an aversion to debt that Government statisticians say is characteristic of families at the middle of the income spectrum. In sharp contrast, lower-income families spend far beyond their incomes, according to surveys of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Not that families in the middle are averse to spending: The four in Cincinnati are steady shoppers, acquiring, among other things, big double-door refrigerators, radiant-heat stoves, expensive stereo equipment, cherry dining room sets, big-screen TV's, boxes of toys, computers and elaborate outdoor grills. One home even has an in-ground backyard swimming pool with a diving board.
"I think middle-income people have acquired a lot in this recovery," said Douglas Haskell, associate director of the Center for Economic Education at the University of Cincinnati. "But that only seems to accelerate their desire for more."
 
The Starters
Home Improvement: Paying the Price
The unlikely owners of the backyard pool are Sean Brandyberry, 25, a data manager, and his wife, Tulena, 24. As evangelical Christians, hoping to spend at least some of their time in missionary work, the couple shun material trappings. For them, a rising income is the road to financial independence, not to a home with a backyard pool.
"That is how a lot of people define their lives, by how much they have," Mr. Brandyberry said. "I am not saying we are above that thinking. We clearly aren't. But we try not to let it be a conscious force driving our lives."
The pool came with the 30-year-old, two-story, four-bedroom home in Springfield Township that they acquired last year for $65,000 in an estate sale. The pool was filled with weeds and dirt, the house rundown. "I thought I would fix it up and sell it at a profit," Mr. Brandyberry said. But with two infants, and three more children planned, his wife wanted bigger quarters than the two-family duplex in which they had lived the previous 18 months, occupying one apartment and renting out the other. So they moved into the new house themselves.
A few months later, this past June, the Brandyberrys became a middle-income family, when Mr. Brandyberry asked for a raise and got a big one -- to $34,600 from $29,200. He works for Kendle International Inc., a rapidly growing company based here that specializes in auditing doctors who test new drugs for pharmaceutical companies. His college degree was in religion; he even spent his junior year analyzing the Bible at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. But he had done well in math and science, and, having married before graduation, he tapped those skills to make a living, joining Kendle in late 1996 as a data processor.
While Mr. Brandyberry's salary alone is well below the median family income, he and his wife have kept their duplex and rent the apartments, adding $2,400 to their net income. Mrs. Brandyberry, trained in accounting, gets the family the rest of the way, earning $12,000 by auditing Kendle expense accounts at home.
Their total income, then, is $49,000. Their mortgage debt is $131,000, at 7 percent, and they owe $3,000 on a school loan. "What we have in income is what God intended us to have," Mr. Brandyberry said, "and we have a responsibility to be good stewards of what he has given us."
That means saving. But for all of their effort to do so, much of the young couple's cash reserve has gone into fixing up the house with touches like a new sliding glass door from the kitchen to the backyard and, most expensive of all, a new pump and other equipment for the pool.
In his day, Mr. Brandyberry's father had a similar fast start after college, joining the booming retail industry and working for more than 20 years as an assistant store manager for J. C. Penney, only to be laid off three years ago. He is working again as a retail store executive, but without regaining his old status or income.
Could that happen to the son? Mr. Brandyberry sees growth and promise in the pharmaceutical industry, and he tells that to his father, who replies that he had the same confidence in retailing when he was young. "That is why I want to be financially independent," the son said.
Right now, however, the Brandyberrys are stuck on the spending treadmill. Their only car is a 1992 Honda Civic that Mr. Brandyberry drives to work; it has 125,000 miles on it. They plan to buy a used minivan for Mrs. Brandyberry -- yet another expense.
"We feel we need something bigger for the two kids," Mr. Brandyberry said. "I guess need is a strong word. We would like a minivan as the second car."
 
The Strugglers
Wishes Deferred And Plans Unmet
When the Fraziers -- Carl, 65, and his wife, Geraldine, 54 -- imagine the good life, they think of the vacation they take almost every year in a $400-a-week condo in Fort Myers, Fla. "The sand is so white," Mr. Frazier said. "You are sitting on the porch, looking out over the bay. All you have to do is change your bathing suit once in a while."
The Fraziers have a slightly greater annual income than the typical family -- more than $50,000 a year -- yet in their own perception, life has been hard. They are the only couple of the four still living in their original home -- a single-story, three-bedroom brick house in the northwestern part of Cincinnati. They bought it for $19,500 in 1971, the year they married. The long stay was not Mr. Frazier's intention.
"My original plan was to use this house as a stepping stone," he said. "I was a real estate broker then, and I got this house on a repossession. Segregation, as far as home-buying was concerned, was winding down, and there were good houses available. I was going to upgrade my neighborhood."
The civil rights movement, however, diverted him. Mr. Frazier worked at General Electric's big jet aircraft engine plant here. After service in the Navy, he went to night school for four years, earning a degree as a specialist in electrical power. And G.E. picked him as the first black to work in technical publications, writing manuals and other material about the engines.
But some of his new office colleagues resisted his presence, Mr. Frazier said, refusing for a while to break him in on the job. Dealing with that absorbed his energy and blunted his progress. Racial tension at a public school affected one of the four children in the Frazier household, eating up their attention and energy.
"I was spreading myself too thin," Mr. Frazier said. "I lost my focus on my plan."
The Fraziers today contribute roughly equal amounts to the family's income. Mrs. Frazier, a secretary at the University of Cincinnati, brings home $28,500 a year in a job that also offers group health insurance. Mr. Frazier found himself forced into retirement in 1995 as G.E. downsized. His Social Security and company pension total $12,000 a year, and he works a few hours a day at a Y.M.C.A. for $11,000 more. And Mrs. Frazier signed on for night work with H & R Block during tax season, earning $800, so their income this year will be just over $52,000.
But there are debts -- and desires. Years ago, the Fraziers got in over their heads in credit card spending, and when Mr. Frazier retired they still owed more than $6,000. His severance package and a $35,000 home equity loan, at 7 percent, got their finances in order and allowed the purchase of a minivan and central air-conditioning, along with a dining room table, a living room sofa and stereo equipment (bought at a garage sale).
Mr. Frazier has discovered the interest-free 90-day payment plan and has used it for several recent purchases, including a dining room sideboard and an elaborate outdoor grill. But there are more needs, including a car for Mrs. Frazier to drive to work and various home repairs that Mr. Frazier is resisting. Having avoided new credit card debt, except for a small balance from this year's vacation, he wants to wait until the home equity loan is paid off, at $700 a month for three more years.
That is hard on Mrs. Frazier. "I want my house set, so that when I come to it I have it the way I want it," she said. "But if we make a wrong move, the pressure we had from the bills will come back, and that is painful."
 
The Builders
Dogged Saving And Some Luxuries
Government jobs lift tens of thousands of families into the middle class, offering them a security that the Fraziers do not feel. Gian Nguyen, 51, a Vietnamese immigrant, has taken this route, partly in response to his early hardships in this country. A Navy lieutenant in South Vietnam who had studied there to teach high school math and science, he found himself in America in the late 1970's working as a minimum-wage laborer.
Today, Mr. Nguyen's $44,500 salary as an engineer for Cincinnati's Metropolitan Sewer District doesn't quite bring the family to the national median. But his wife, Kim, 41, also from Vietnam, opened a nail salon two years ago that has finally turned a profit, netting $4,000 so far this year. The shop's success is so important to them that Mr. Nguyen has obtained a license in nail care, so that he can help out in his off hours.
"Whenever she has three or four customers, she calls me, and I run right over," said Mr. Nguyen, who gets home from his city job by 3 P.M. The salon's specialty is false nails, a booming business these days, but there are so many competing salons that Mrs. Nguyen has dropped her price for a set to $25, from $30.
Mr. Nguyen, who earned an engineering degree from Wright State University in Dayton in the mid-1980's, is bent on building up the family fortunes. Consumer spending does not have as much appeal for the Nguyens as it does for many native-born Americans, he and his wife say, although their son and daughter, both born in the United States, are moving in that direction. How much does the family save? "He makes $2,000 and we save $1,800," Mrs. Nguyen said. He corrected her. "It's $1,200," he said.
Mrs. Nguyen explained how they manage: "We don't go out to eat. We don't travel. We buy clothes on sale."
"This dress I'm wearing," she said (it is a long black cotton garment with a white flower design), "cost $10."
The Nguyens, who married in 1981, are on their third house, a single-story, three-bedroom brick home in Norwood bought in 1995 for $113,000. Their $25,000 mortgage is paid off, Mr. Nguyen said. He and his wife have no credit cards. Their 16-year-old daughter, Alice, making $100 a week at a summer job, turns over $70 to her mother to save. Their stock holdings, which they value at roughly $100,000, are regarded as a retirement nest egg.
The Nguyens have embraced the ways of middle-income American families. They receive a visitor in a thickly carpeted, comfortably furnished living room. Their kitchen has all the modern appliances, including a refrigerator with water and ice spigots on the door. Three cars are parked outside. The master bedroom features a four-poster bed and flowered sheets.
"We don't want a bigger house," Mr. Nguyen said, "but we would like a newer house."
 
The Strivers
Goals That Remain Just Out of Sight
Living among neighbors who have more possessions than they do, Tracey and Carrie Jones wonder if they will ever close the gap.
After years of procrastination, as Mr. Jones puts it, he received a two-year degree in mechanical engineering technology in 1993, so that he could compete more effectively against unemployed engineers seeking machinery design work. He had been laid off himself in the early 1990's and worked as a temporary employee for up to $19 an hour before landing his current job at Superior Machine Systems in 1996.
Carrie Jones dropped out of college, where she had studied nursing partly to please her father, a doctor. Only later, while working for a savings and loan association and then Fifth Third Bank, did she realize that accounting was her true calling.
She went to a part-time work schedule after her second child was born in 1994, working enough hours to provide benefits for the family until her husband landed at Superior Machine Systems. The rising cost of child care persuaded her to switch to the bookkeeping job for her dentist on a more flexible schedule, though at less than half the pay.
"I was making $11,000 at the bank and paying the woman who cared for my children $4,500, and I did not feel that was worth it, being away from my kids," she said.
But there are sacrifices. The Joneses have just taken on a $10,000 home equity loan to buy a used car. And there are stressful moments with acquaintances who are in better financial shape. Mrs. Jones remembered driving with a friend who was talking about remodeling and enlarging her kitchen. "And I thought to myself: 'Isn't it big enough? It's plenty big now,' " she recalled. "She asked me a couple of months ago when were we going to upgrade our kitchen, and I said my kitchen was big enough."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE JONESES -- Combined income: $49,700. Carrie Jones, with her son Neil, supplements her husband's salary with a part-time bookkeeping job. THE NGUYENS Combined income: $49,000. "We don't go out to eat," Kim Nguyen said. "We don't travel. We buy clothes on sale." (Photographs by Mark Lyons for The New York Times)(pg. 13); THE BRANDYBERRYS -- Combined income: $49,000. Though the couple, evangelical Christians, worry little about material possessions, they have a backyard pool. It came, choked with weeds, with a rundown home in Springfield Township, Ohio, that the Brandyberrys bought in an estate sale for $65,000. THE FRAZIERS -- Combined income: $52,000. After getting in over their heads in credit card spending years ago, their finances are now in order. "But if we make a wrong move, the pressure we had from the bills will come back, and that is painful," Geraldine Frazier said. (Photographs by Mark Lyons for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "Portrait of the Center"
The robust economy has lifted the income of the typical middle-income family above its previous peak, but life in the middle of the middle class is a constant struggle to live up to expectations.
 
Graph plots median annual income of all families in 1998 dollars
 
Graph plots number of months of median income to buy a house or new car, for 1970 and 1998
 
HOW MUCH THEY WORK
 
Graphs plot hours worked by married couples with children in 1997 and percentage change of hours worked in 1997 compared with 1979, for the four family income quintiles
 
WHAT THEY BUY
 
Percentages of spending on various goods and services by families
in the middle quintile, or fifth of the population ranked by income.
 
1977
 
HOUSING: 43.9%
FOOD AND BEVERAGES: 18.8
TRANSPORTATION: 18.0
APPAREL AND UPKEEP: 5.8
MEDICAL CARE: 5.0
ENTERTAINMENT: 4.1
OTHER: 4.4
 
1997
HOUSING: 39.6%
FOOD AND BEVERAGES: 16.3
TRANSPORTATION: 17.6
APPAREL AND UPKEEP: 5.2
MEDICAL CARE: 5.6
ENTERTAINMENT: 6.1
OTHER: 4.3
EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION*: 5.5
 
*Counted in "housing" and "other" in 1977.
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; Bureau of Labor Statistics; National Association of Realtors; Economic Policy Institute)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); OHIO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE FAMILY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CHILDREN (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); CENSUS (62%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



33 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Attention, Wannabe Gazillionaires;
A Company That Captures the Spirit of the Age

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:

To: Potential Investors
From: me@me.com
Subject: Internet Start-up and Initial Public Offering
It's not just young upstarts from Silicon Valley or Silicon Alley anymore. Even the old freight-delivery dowager U.P.S. is declaring itself an Internet player (it ships a lot of stuff bought on Web sites) and announcing that it is going public. The I.P.O. craze has reached the point that the stock exchanges themselves are hatching plans to sell shares. So I believe the time is right to take the Internet-I.P.O. phenomenon a pioneering step further, which I plan to do, with my new company, me.com. 
 The company promises to be an extraordinary opportunity for a select group of investors, and I'm giving you a chance to be one of them. Since I am in the pre-I.P.O. stage, the exact details of my company are still a closely guarded secret. Good buzz, as we all know, can be worth billions in today's frenzied market.
A careful blend of mystery and hype are key ingredients in the marketing plan of any good Internet start-up. As part of the comprehensive marketing strategy, I will also be shaving my head, piercing two or three body parts (as yet undisclosed), and lying shamelessly about my age.
The company is positioned across three markets with explosive growth potential -- the Internet (see company name above), intellectual property (I have lots and lots of ideas) and the human genome project (hey, I have as many genes as anyone else).
Yes, the company's losses are already mounting. But as we all know, in the Internet era there are no losses, only investments. In the hyperspeed land grab for mind share and market share in the New Economy, actually making money is a character weakness -- a sure sign of a worrisome lack of imagination in not being able to come up with more and more ways to spend money. The financially meek, after all, will not inherit the high-tech economy's Next Big Thing.
Me.com has already attracted the financial backing of Dick Digit, the Internet visionary and co-founder of harebrained.com, a company I regard as nearly as path-breaking as my own. Dick, of course, is now a gazillionaire because harebrained.com was acquired only four months after it was founded for a stupifying sum by a major computer company desperate to jump on the Internet bandwagon.
Which brings me to the company's long-term (a maximum of six months) strategy, which is founded upon two plans that are calculated to trigger results. Plan No. 1: Create some buzz and persuade Microsoft that America Online is anxious to buy me.com, which will prompt Microsoft to buy the company so that its archrival will not get it. Plan No. 2: Plan No. 1 in reverse. Convince America Online to snap up me.com to keep it out of Microsoft's clutches. Either way, me.com is a decided winner.
Finally, I think I should say a bit about an aspect critical to business but regrettably neglected in most Internet start-ups -- management. The management structure and philosophy behind me.com is, I'm proud to say, one of its unique features. It is the ultimate "lean" company, quick and responsive, distinctively able to react faster than flame mail over a T3 line. Me.com has a totally flat organizational structure, no layers of bureaucratic flab bogging down the decision-making process. I am the chairman, chief executive officer, chief technology officer and sole employee of me.com. It's all me, just me.
 
Addendum: F.Y.I.
The Net being the Net, if you actually go looking for www.me.com on the Web, as many of you wannabe gazillionaires will doubtless do, it will indeed take you somewhere, though, unfortunately not to me@me.com. Last week, Net surfers would find a page that was part of the corporate Web site for Job 1 Systems Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif., a company that provides "financing and strategic services for start-ups." But Brian G. Job, a graduate of Stanford and the Harvard business school, said he had just sold off the Web address, or domain name, to an eager bidder. And like everything else on the Net, me.com is changing fast. STEVE LOHR
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%); AOL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (92%); STARTUPS (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); MARKETING PLAN (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MARKETING STRATEGY (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); MARKET SHARE (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); GENOMICS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE DICK DIGIT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



34 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Fears of Rape and Violence;
Women Newly Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
NO one denies that their stories are horrific: beatings, rape, genital mutilation or the threat of it. But foreign women seeking asylum on these grounds have received a mixed welcome in the United States.
Three years ago, the door opened a bit for some women who claimed that their sex rendered them victims of persecution. In a landmark decision, the Board of Immigration Appeals granted asylum to Fauziya Kassindja, who said her clitoris would be cut off if she were forced to return home to Togo. The board, the highest administrative court for asylum cases, agreed that female circumcision was equivalent to the more widely recognized rights violations of political and religious persecution. Ms. Kassindja's case also met other important criteria -- a well-founded fear of persecution because she belonged to a social group, in her case women of her tribe who opposed genital mutilation. 
 But the Kassindja ruling has not, as many women's groups and human rights lawyers hoped, blazed an unambiguous trail for others seeking a safe haven from persecution based on sex. In late June, the board denied asylum to Rodi Alvarado Pena, a Guatemalan woman who had escaped both a brutal husband and apathetic authorities.
Ten of the 15 members of the appeals board said Ms. Alvarado had not proved she was persecuted because of her social class or opinion. Her husband raped and beat her regardless of her beliefs, the judges ruled, and while Ms. Alvarado may merit protection on humanitarian grounds, asylum is not meant to be an all-encompassing remedy for people fleeing oppressive societies.
Because of the attention to these cases, rights advocates are challenging the conventional wisdom. Ms. Alvarado's supporters have petitioned Attorney General Janet Reno and the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco to review the decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals. They also may try a novel tack: portraying Ms. Alvarado as a victim of torture who should not be sent back to her torturer.
"This decision has really garnered the attention of people across the country on different levels -- from Congress to the immigration advocates, to women's groups and people in the Administration," said Karen Musalo, a professor at Hastings College of the Law at the University of California in San Francisco. "But for the time being, it is a binding precedent that has devastating consequences."
Applicants for asylum must first prove they cannot return home because of "persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion." The law was a product of the cold war, written with dissidents from totalitarian regimes in mind.
"The assumption was that there is a distinction between political and economic suffering and between what was political and personal," said Gary E. Rubin, the director of public policy of the New York Association for New Americans. "Now the line between personal and political is being renegotiated and things that people thought were personal tended to have political meaning."
In the recent past, the meaning of "social group" has been extended to include those persecuted on the basis of sexual orientation, ethnicity and even, in the case of journalists, profession. Gender as social group seemed the natural next frontier.
IN 1985 the executive committee of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said women facing abuse because they transgress the customs of their society are a special "social group." It took another eight years before the United Nations recognized violence against women as a human rights violation. The same year, spurred in part by the reports of a systematic pattern of rape in Bosnia, Canada adopted pioneering guidelines granting refugee status to women facing persecution on account of their gender. Two years later the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service broadened its own guidelines to give greater weight to women seeking asylum who feared genital mutilation and sexual violence. In 1996 female circumcision, whether part of a woman's culture or not, was outlawed in this country.
But inconsistent rulings in recent cases here and in Canada show that each woman seeking asylum on grounds of gender-based persecution must fight the battle anew. Last year, the board denied asylum to Adelaide Abankwah, a Ghanaian who feared she would be circumcised forcibly if she returned home. The board said she had not proved that her fear was reasonable. Ms. Abankwah was released only on July 20, after two years in a New York City detention center, when a Federal appeals court ruled she could not be expected to provide the kind of proof the board had demanded. "A genuine refugee does not flee her native country armed with affidavits, expert witnesses, and extensive documentation," the court said, and sent the case back to the immigration board.
A different issue, central to Ms. Alvarado's case, is likely to affect asylum seekers fleeing countries where violence against women is considered within the rights of husbands and fathers. Ms. Alvarado's lawyers argued that she belonged to a persecuted social group they defined as "Guatemalan women who have been involved intimately with Guatemalan male companions, who believe that women are to live under male domination." The judges said the group defined was not cohesive enough to qualify for asylum. They also said Ms. Alvarado had not shown that her husband beat her because she was, or he believed her to be, opposed to the patriarchal culture.
Women's advocates say the only act of opposition that women in such cultures can take is to flee their country. And a society that fails to punish batterers or ignores women's basic human rights is enforcing a political policy, they say.
That is the disputed new frontier for women seeking asylum. As an immigration judge in Virginia ruled in 1994 in the case of a Jordanian woman who ran away from an abusive husband, a woman can challenge the system simply by seeking a new life in the United States. The judge, Paul A. Nejelski, wrote, "The respondent has espoused a belief that she is an individual."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seeking asylum under the Convention Against Torture, Ablavi Haden of Togo was detained in the Dallas County Jail last year but released this year. Her case is pending. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); TOGO (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS (57%); BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS (57%); BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TOGO (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); WOMEN POLITICAL ASYLUM (92%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); TORTURE (89%); WOMEN (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); APPEALS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RELIGION (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); PETITIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN RODI ALVARADO PENA (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



35 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Disney's Brave New Town;
Trouble at the Happiest School on Earth

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: CELEBRATION, Fla.

 BODY:
THE start of the school year here is just a few days away, so it was no surprise that there was a line of parents at the Celebration School office the other day. But the reason for the line was: They were queueing up to withdraw their children.
When Celebration School first opened three years ago, some of the same people had lined up to enroll their children in the ballyhooed educational gem designed by top experts from across the country. It was to be a world-class institution that would take children from kindergarten through 12th grade in the highly planned brave new town created here by the Walt Disney Company. The school, at the literal and figurative center of the town, was to use the most advanced educational methods. And the plans even called for an adjoining teaching academy to share the innovations with educators nationwide. 
 But as the beginning of the fourth school year approaches on Aug. 6, administrators, teachers and even executives of Disney's Celebration Company are being whipsawed by turmoil.
Some of the families most deeply involved in the school have transferred their children to other schools or even packed up and left town. Among them are the president of the Parent-Teacher Association and her immediate predecessor.
The frustration has two primary causes. Some people are fed up with the potpourri of progressive methods; few textbooks are used, for instance, and, at first, no grades were given. Others are leaving because they believe the school is pulling back from that progressive approach and the innovations that drew them to Celebration in the first place.
An examination of the sometimes contradictory motives offers a lesson in what can happen when high-minded educational theory collides with the expectations of parents and the realities of public schools in Florida, a state that ranks near the bottom in most measures of educational quality.
Disney, through its Celebration Company, is developing this town, about 20 miles southwest of Orlando, as an alternative to the isolation of suburban sprawl. Since the first residents moved in three years ago, the town has grown to more than 2,000. Most are drawn by the small-town feel, which includes tree-lined sidewalks, ample parks, turn-of-the-century architecture and a convenient town center.
Celebration School is vital to the cozy atmosphere -- and it's a big part of the draw -- but there is nothing old-fashioned about the school. Although it is public and part of the Osceola County school district, the school was designed largely by education experts brought in by Disney from leading universities, including Harvard, Auburn and Johns Hopkins.
"By bringing in experts from places like Harvard and other places and blending their theories with real-world practices, we began to think that there would be a vision of a public school that would be a lighthouse for new ideas," said Don Killoren, the former general manager of the Celebration Company, which is developing and operating the town for Disney.
In brainstorming sessions over two years, long before ground was broken, the experts came up with the kindergarten-through-12th grade approach, something rarely seen these days. This, they said, would provide continuity for students, teachers and families. And resources could be shared among the grades. For instance, an excellent high school teacher might be available occasionally to work with bright children from lower grades.
Classrooms are as big as 5,000 square feet to accommodate the multi-age groupings that theorists like Harvard's Howard Gardner say promote better individual learning. The age range is fairly narrow in the upper grades, but classrooms of up to 100 students serve children from kindergarten through fifth grade.
In the beginning, there were no letter grades. Instead students and parents were provided with "authentic assessments," individualized evaluations of their children's strengths and weaknesses. Standardized tests were replaced by interdisciplinary projects designed by the students themselves, with portfolios, not report cards, as a record of their work. Computers and other technology took the place of textbooks.
Classroom schedules were flexible so students could work at their own pace. Even the language reflected the progressive education theory. Teachers are called "learning leaders" and students are "learners." They meet not in classrooms but "neighborhoods."
MOST of these concepts have been tried in one form or another at progressive schools, but had never been used all at once in a brand-new school. In one of the early planning sessions, Robert Peterkin of Harvard had cautioned that it would take years for everything to work smoothly. "I would just urge Disney to realize that there will be ups and downs, that this is a long haul," he said.
He proved prescient. The school opened in the fall of 1996 in temporary quarters, with about 200 students and a handful of teachers. The adjustment was difficult for parents and teachers alike, but there was always the promise of how well it would go the next year when everyone moved into the new building.
In the fall of 1997, nearly 800 students started school in the new building, but many of the problems remained. Parents complained about the lack of homework and the inability to track progress without grades and tests. The unstructured classes confused some parents and students. Teachers struggled with the burdens of multi-age classrooms and working without a written curriculum, all under the intense scrutiny of worried parents and the national media.
By the summer of 1998, a handful of people had pulled their children out. They felt their children couldn't afford to wait until everything worked smoothly.
Others banded together and sought changes, with some success. Grades were instituted for the high school, largely to help students get into colleges, where portfolios are seldom part of the application process. Textbooks were brought in to augment the technology. More structure was imposed on class schedules.
THE compromises brought a dash of real-world practicality to the ivory tower theories. The simple passage of time helped people adjust and adapt to the new methods. As the school year ended last May, the controversy seemed to have simmered down. Certainly some parents were still dissatisfied and a few decided to leave, but most appeared to sense progress.
"Graduation for me last May was just a real high point because I felt people were finally beginning to feel at home," said Dot Davis, the director of Celebration School.
But then came a bombshell. Officials announced last month that the kindergarten-through-high school concept would be abandoned, and a 2,000-student regional high school would be built in another part of town. The reasons were economic, not educational. Faced with overcrowding and a sparse budget for construction, the Osceola County school district had struck a deal with the Celebration Company, which would donate 50 acres for the high school. The plan would save the district $10 million. And it would save Disney the cost of building more schools as Celebration grows to its projected population of 20,000.
Michael E. Mekdeci, the Celebration Company's liaison officer with the school district, said the company will spend about $25 million on the high school and on expansion of the existing school, which will serve elementary students.
Still, many parents felt betrayed. After three years of fighting for progress in the innovative community school, they were facing a return to what they considered the most traditional of education plans, the huge regional high school.
School officials have tried to mollify parents by promising to maintain the progressive curriculum through a "school within a school" at the future high school. In its contract with the school district, Celebration Company included language specifying that the district would adhere to the initial philosophy of the school.
The departures do not amount to a stampede, but the school has not yet compiled figures on the number of students leaving. And those who are leaving have a myriad of reasons beyond the school. In many ways, the departures represent a normal shake-out in any new venture, particularly in a new town where people came with expectations of a perfect life.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Disney's planned community of Celebration, Fla., an elaborate educational experiment has been a disappointment. Some parents think Disney is retreating too far from its promise of a progressive school. Others think Disney is not retreating far enough. (Trevor Ray Hart/Matrix)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (85%); CELEBRATION SCHOOL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO CELEBRATION SCHOOL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CELEBRATION (FLA); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); SUBURBS (66%); RANKINGS (62%); 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



36 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: The World: Out of Control;
The Internet Changes Dictatorship's Rules

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
IT used to be easier to spot the telltale signs of a revolution in the making. There were the Molotov cocktails, the placard-bearing protesters, the fiery speeches, the subversive tapes made by shadowy underground leaders with ski hoods and thrilling stage names. If and when they succeeded, revolutionaries often tightened their grip on power through the mass media: the heroic movies, stirring music raining down from communal loudspeakers, television news cut and tailored to suit the regime.
But now China, home of the very visible Long March and the agit-prop film, followed by the big-character poster and the Goddess of Democracy, has been caught off guard by a vast, silent, virtually invisible movement (if not exactly a revolution) that came together not on the streets but on the Internet. Its distinguishing activity is collective deep-breathing. Its ideology, if it can be called that, includes the notion that Buddhist-style concentration can cultivate "supernormal" powers. Its leader, Li Hongzhi, is a former office clerk who now lives in New York. Its tens of millions of members appear to dress like the white-collar middle class people they are. 
 The panicked reaction by the Chinese Government -- which in recent weeks banned the movement known as Falun Gong and sent 1,200 state employees who were members to that Asian Communist mind-cleanser, re-education, is perhaps even more startling than the movement itself. It demonstrates in a flash of instant history that totalitarians, already flummoxed by the fax machine and the cellular phone, may be facing the biggest high-tech challenge of all in the Internet.
"This is not the first time that the Internet's been used in China in a way that's been threatening to the Government," Elizabeth Economy, senior fellow for China at the Council on Foreign Relations, points out. She said that the China Democracy Party, whose leaders were arrested last year, was found to have used the Internet to organize across the country. "The thing that was so threatening was certainly not the number of people, but rather that this was inter-provincial, that in over two-thirds of Chinese provinces, the China Democracy Party was able to establish branches. And this was explicitly political in the way that Falun Gong is not. The China Democracy Party still exists. It's still there, and it can emerge at any time because of the Internet."
The Internet's power to change behavior, from consumer buying habits to self-education, self-diagnosis and new directions in leisure activity, is well understood in the West. Its networking power has been used extremely effectively by low-budget civic and political organizations in fields as diverse as environmental protection and international criminal law.
But it has often been assumed in industrial countries that access to computers and the Internet was limited to such small elite groups in the developing nations that there would be little public impact in the near future. Experts have focused on just the opposite trend: that developmental gaps between the people of rich and poor nations, whatever their political systems, would only widen catastrophically in the short term.
Then along came the China Democracy Party and, now, the much bigger Falun Gong with tens of millions of members; they prove that all it takes is an elite that can motivate the masses to give the one-party state a scare. It is worse still for totalitarians when those citizens with access to computers draw on old traditions and religions to broaden the appeal of troublesome sects or cults.
In societies accustomed to sharing a still-rare technological tool, one computer (like one village television receiver or a communal phone) can serve many people, especially if they are hungry for the information being provided. And to a totalitarian state, the Internet is a double fright because it can be simultaneously intensely private and endlessly public, a terror because it operates unseen at both levels. Had 10,000 Falun Gong supporters not suddenly appeared as if by magic in April outside the private residence compound of the Chinese leadership in Beijing, where they proceeded to conduct their peaceful meditative exercises, who would have known the breadth of the movement's reach?
This is a profoundly disturbing discovery for China or any country where there are still unsettled and potentially dangerous political questions about the pace and direction of modernization. Most governments are aware of the need to liberalize the flow of information in order to attract international business and to secure a place in the global economy. International lending organizations are demanding data once withheld by secretive governments.
"The Chinese Government has made the decision that it wants to continue to advance information technology," said Ms. Economy. "They recognize the challenges that it is going to pose for them, but they think that it is too important to their economic modernization to stop. What they are trying to do obviously is to control it."
But to counter the threat, the Government is still falling back on old techniques. For the Chinese Communist Party to compete in the open marketplace of ideas is still anathema. Furthermore, what if independent trade unions or other groups start to organize through the Internet? Re-education, a Maoist method of mind control also recently resurrected widely in Tibet, is now as out of date as the doctored newsreel or the propagandistic "documentary" used by Fascists and Communists alike to drum up pride in the state and its ruler.
Few countries can opt out of the technological revolution, though even the United States sees a need to police it in order to protect national security. Only a regime like Saddam Hussein's in Iraq, which really wants only to sell oil, not establish a modern business environment, can enforce a ban on Internet use under a pervasive reign of terror. In any case, international sanctions have reduced Iraq's telephone service to a ludicrous level, cutting off until very recently those who might have tried to evade restrictions in their hunger for information from the outside world.
Vietnam, clinging to a Communist political-control mindset, has been ambivalent on the issue of technology without borders. India, a democracy and a software exporter, tried at first to monopolize Internet connections but gave up under public pressure for better services. By contrast in Singapore, where one party has dominated politics ruthlessly, but where educated people are recognized as the nation's most valuable natural resource (and foreign companies are welcomed), Internet access has been made simple.
When historians look back on the latter part of the 20th century, they may be tempted in the short term to see it as an era that rendered Orwell passe, an age when exploding technology ended the possibility of totalitarian thought control -- at least until dictators or new mind-closing movements devise new methods of isolating people. There are already fears that racist hate groups or new age religious cults with authoritarian or apocalyptic tendencies are getting ahead of the deprogramming organizations that try to rescue members trapped in mind-altering sects. But on balance, many experts would bet on more opening of minds through interconnectedness.
In the Muslim world, the use of mass communications -- including the Internet as well as a new generation of smuggled tapes and the open discussion encouraged by Qatar's pioneering Al-Jazira satellite television network -- is aiding a significant if still disparate movement for re-examination of the basic precepts and writings of Islam.
"The result is a collapse of earlier, hierarchical notions of religious authority based on claims to the mastery of fixed bodies of religious texts," Dale F. Eickelman, a Dartmouth anthropologist, said in June in the 1999 Templeton Lecture on Religion and World Affairs at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia. "Quite simply, in country after country, government officials, traditional religious scholars and officially sanctioned preachers are finding it very hard to monopolize the tools of literate culture. The days have gone when governments and religious authorities can control what their people know, and what they think."
At the same time, it is probably worth remembering that the early totalitarians based a lot of their strategy on mastering what was then cutting-edge communications technology. Manipulating film images and broadcasting propaganda were essential to their efforts to imprison rather than liberate people's imaginations. So their heirs in China may be right to have a special fear of a new, barely understood medium like the Internet -- and of any organization clever enough to master this newest technology.
And for the West, the extraordinary success that the Falun Gong has had with cyberspace challenges any optimism that the Internet will promote only rational, enlightened, open-minded patterns of thought.
ACCESSIBLE communications, Professor Eickelman and others say, foster the growth of civil society and strengthen dissent in places like Iran or Egypt. But in Muslim nations, as almost everywhere in the world at the century's end, there is still a race on between the forces of liberalizing change and those of reactionary fundamentalism, between those who would expand tolerance and those who preach hate, between the agents of mind control and advocates of a free exchange of political ideas.
"It is important to remember that the Internet can serve government's purposes, too," said Ms. Economy. "It's not always going to be a force for positive change from our perspective."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: People suspected of being followers of Falun Gong, under police guard in Beijing after the group was outlawed. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

COMPANY: FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) CHINA DEMOCRACY PARTY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) CHINA DEMOCRACY PARTY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); RELIGION (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (62%); ARRESTS (61%); CRIMINAL LAW (60%); POLITICS (60%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; LI HONGZHI

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



37 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: The Worker's Just Reward

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick, the editor of Challenge magazine, is working on a book about productivity.

 BODY:
Businesses across America are bemoaning the shortage of workers, from highly skilled computer professionals to lower-paid clerks. Some New York City restaurateurs, calling it a "crisis," are going so far as to offer health insurance to their waiters and establish training courses because they can't hire experienced personnel. And Wall Street sent stock prices reeling last week on the latest news that wages are up slightly more than expected. The market fears that the Federal Reserve will interpret any increase as a reason to be cautious and raise interest rates.
The culprit in the minds of many is an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent, far lower than most economists believed possible without generating inflation. But, contrary to the prevailing wisdom, little has been better for the country than a dose of full employment. Americans have been unfamiliar with it for so long that they have forgotten how broadly beneficial it is. 
 Consider the inequality of income. Now that the supply of labor is tighter, even low-wage workers have been getting decent wage increases -- about 8 percent after inflation over the last three years. As a result, income inequality, which has been attributed to the need for greater technological skills, growing international trade, the loss of the work ethic and assorted other factors, is now narrowing. Lower rates of unemployment and rising wages may also be contributing to declining crime rates. It is well documented that as unemployment rates have fallen in inner cities recently, so has the incidence of crime.
The country as a whole is surely more confident as well. Generosity seems to be on the rise. Survey after survey suggests that despite Congressional determination to cut taxes, most Americans would rather spend any Federal budget surplus on social programs and education.
Low rates of unemployment will also help the economy over time. It is nice to hear that some New York restaurants are taking such "radical" steps as giving their staffs the benefit of formal training. Rising wages in other industries are also inducing more thought about, and capital investment in, innovative ways to use employees better, including upgrading plants and machinery. Many economic historians have argued that American productivity grew rapidly in its earlier years for just such reasons. Businesses had to pay high wages for scarce labor as far back as the early 19th century, so they invested aggressively in the latest equipment to raise the output per worker.
As incomes rise for all American workers, new, more vibrant markets are created for entrepreneurs. Wall Street should keep in mind that the booms in the auto and housing markets are in part supported by growing demand among middle-income Americans whose incomes generally lagged behind those of their better-off peers until recently. As these workers earn more, they can also afford to train and educate themselves, sensing perhaps that they have a stake in the nation's future again.
But before we get too carried away with the benefits to workers in the current economy, let's remember that wage growth has been extraordinarily slow in the 1990's, even when including the gains of the last few years. Median family income, adjusted for inflation, is only 2 percent higher than it was in 1989. Workers have kept up by having spouses work and borrowing on credit cards and against the house. In fact, despite stories about signing bonuses at fast-food restaurants, wages for lower-paid male workers and for women in general fell in the second quarter.
The willingness of Americans to work long and hard has been one of the foundations of economic growth in the 1990's. A far higher proportion of Americans work than ever worked before. An increasing number of them have two jobs; they travel the continent to look for work, and two-thirds of married women with young children now work.
Trying to push the rate of unemployment much lower than it is today may indeed reignite inflation. Even an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent may ultimately prove inflationary. But when adopting economic policies that will directly harm workers by costing them jobs, the wise folks in Washington should remember that it is the determination and optimism of workers that has kept this economic miracle going. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); CRIME RATES (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CITIES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); HISTORY (69%); ETHICS (65%); TAX LAW (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



38 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Fit for a New Start

 BODY:
As more businesses find clients over the Internet, and as customers increasingly take to the Web to compare prices and offerings, traditional face-to-face sales representatives are finding their jobs endangered. Two sales-intensive businesses where the future may be dim are insurance and investments.
In the last 10 months, nearly 13,000 job cuts have been announced in these two sectors alone, according to Challenger Gray & Christmas, an outplacement company based in Northbrook, Ill. But John A. Challenger, chief executive of the company, says many of the professionals set adrift in those cuts also have unusually promising potential to find new success by starting their own businesses. 
 "Successful agents in insurance and investing are able to develop a bond with their clients in order to learn what their needs and goals are and then formulate a package of products and services to meet them," Mr. Challenger said.
That skill would be helpful in many kinds of businesses. But it would be logical, Mr. Challenger said, for many of the displaced workers in insurance and securities to become consultants in financial planning -- a field that is likely to grow as more and more people try to manage their investments, with the help of the Internet, from their own homes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT SALES FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: JOHN A CHALLENGER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



39 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: July 26-July 30;
How Will the Summer Page-Turner End?

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
When it comes to plot twists, the American stock market has turned into a thriller, pitting leery investors against a threatening inflation bogeyman.
 For now, the bogeyman has the upper hand. For the second consecutive week, investors slammed on the brakes, leaving the Dow Jones industrial average down 2.3 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq off 2 percent. All three wound up down for July, though each set records mid-month. 
 "The market is trying hard to find a footing," Alan Ackerman, a senior vice president and market strategist at Fahnestock & Company, told Reuters. "One of the factors putting pressure on the market itself is that interest rates might go higher."
 The employment report to be released on Friday may provide more inflation fodder for the Federal Reserve as it considers raising interest rates on Aug. 24. The Fed is already chewing on reports last week that seemed to tip the scales toward a rate increase.
"We're seeing a shift from earnings to Fed watch," Bryan Piskorowski, a market strategist at Prudential Securities, told Bloomberg News. "Every economic indicator will be under the microscope from here on."
 MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
DaimlerChrysler
nyse: dcx (A.D.R.'s)
A one-two punch of flat earnings and downgrades by at least three analysts sent shares spiraling. DaimlerChrysler earned $1.52 a share in the second quarter, or 48 cents less than Wall Street had expected.
Friday's Close: $72.125
Week's Change: -14.52%
EST. '99 P/E: 9.82
 
4Kids Entertainment
nnm: kide
Mattel's Learning Company agreed to develop and publish educational software based on Nintendo of America's Pokemon, the popular video game licensed by a unit of 4Kids.
Friday's Close: $37.4375
Week's Change: +32.52%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Host Marriott Serv.
nyse: hms
Autogrill of Italy agreed to buy Host Marriott, its rival, for $929 million. Autogrill, controlled by the Benetton family, will pay a 62 percent prem-ium, or $15.75 a share, in cash. It will also take on $400 million in debt.
Friday's Close: $15.5625
Week's Change: +59.62%
EST. '99 P/E: 26.69
 
Good Guys
nnm: gguy
Good Guys said it would leave the computer and home office products business by the end of this quarter. The electronics retailer intends to cut costs by 20 percent as part of its revamping.
Friday's Close: $6.6875
Week's Change: -18.32%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Boise Cascade
nyse: bcc
The company offered $471 million for Le Groupe Forex of Canada. The bid topped a $408 million offer by Louisiana-Pacific a month ago. Forex agreed to accept a matching bid from Louisiana-Pacific.
Friday's Close: $38.75
Week's Change: -8.82%
EST. '99 P/E: 20.89
 
Western Wireless
nnm: wwca
Western Wireless, a provider of wireless services in 18 states, said it added 42,100 sub-scribers in the second quarter, bringing its total to 737,600. Two analysts then raised their ratings on the stock.
Friday's Close: $35.00
Week's Change: +14.75%
EST. '99 P/E: 1,590.91
 
Standard Products
nyse: spd
Cooper Tire and Rubber agreed to buy the company for $584.4 million and assume $173 million of its debt. The $36.50-a-share price represents a 46 percent premium for Standard, an auto parts maker.
Friday's Close: $35.50
Week's Change: +41.65%
EST. '99 P/E14.40
 
Pixar Animation
nnm: pixr
Home video and merch-andise sales related to the movie A Bug's Life are 12 percent below expec-tations, Pixar said. Sales of the video, released with Pixar's partner, Walt Disney, are expected to total 21 million.
Friday's Close: $38.625
Week's Change: -21.77%
EST. '99 P/E: 55.42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (71%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); 

PERSON: LUCIANO BENETTON (59%); GUILIANA BENETTON (59%); CARLO BENETTON (59%); GILBERTO BENETTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



40 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Let's Make a Deal

 BODY:
Opportunity knows no boundaries of place or time. The enterprising have found clients, investors, employees and employers in the oddest of settings -- chance meetings on the subway, supermarket checkout lines or even after a fender-bending collision. What is the most unusual place where you managed -- or at least tried -- to further your fortunes? Or where someone else tried to pursue business with you? Send your stories to On the Job, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Or send them by E-mail to onthejob@nytimes.com. Include your name and telephone number. All submissions become the property of The Times and may be republished in any medium. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOB MONEY&BUSINESS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



41 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant Association Sees Its Persistence Pay Off

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
Standing on a ballroom stage in Las Vegas, Nev., earlier this year, Herman Cain, president of the National Restaurant Association, sang to his members, crooning in a rich baritone: "If I can see it, I can do it; if I just believe, there's nothing to it.
"I believe I can fly; I believe I can touch the sky!" 
 Not surprisingly, the unusual performance from the industry's top lobbyist raised a few eyebrows among the restaurateurs in the audience, who were there for an association convention. But in truth, Mr. Cain had reason to crow, because the restaurant industry is flush.
Americans are eating out more often than ever before. Average check prices are higher than they have ever been. More than 10.2 million people are employed in restaurants, more than at any time in the past. And total industry sales are expected to reach a record high this year, $354 billion.
And yet, association lobbyists managed to convince House Republicans this summer that restaurants were suffering enduring harm from the Government's decision in 1993 to reduce the tax deductibility of business meals, to 50 percent from 80 percent. The House tax cut bill, passed earlier this month, includes a heavily lobbied provision that raises it back to 80 percent. The tax bill that passed the Senate on Friday does not contain the provision, meaning more lobbying lies ahead.
Back in 1993, when the industry was trying to block the cut in the tax deduction, the restaurant association ran television commercials warning of disaster for the industry's most vulnerable employees.
"I'm a waitress, and a good one," Jan Bergwall, from a small town in Maryland, said in one advertisement. "I'd better be, because my three sons depend on me. But I might not have a job much longer. President Clinton's economic plan cuts business-meal deductibility. That would throw 165,000 people out of work. I need this job."
The lobbying effort failed. And as it turned out, the association's own statistics show that restaurant employment set records in 1994 and again in 1995, when restaurants added more than 300,000 employees.
The association is using the same approach now to fight a proposed increase in the minimum wage. Recently it put out the results of a survey taken of its members in support of this lobbying campaign, and the restaurant owners reported cutting "more than 146,000 jobs from restaurant payrolls" after previous minimum-wage increases, in 1996 and 1997.
At the same time, though, Bureau of Labor Statistics figures show that restaurant employment nationwide increased by 162,400 jobs in 1996 and 119,200 in 1997. Lee Culpepper, a vice president with the association, acknowledged the overall gain in jobs, but argued that the rate of increase would have been higher, if not for the minimum-wage increases.
For other lobbying aims, the association likes to make the point that its membership is not dominated by minimum-wage workers. "A popular misconception about the restaurant industry is that it is a collection of low-wage jobs, with nominal impact on a region's economy," one association policy paper says. Restaurant employees at all levels make more money than most people believe, the association says, and play an important role in regional economies.
Because of its broad range of interests, the trade group expends copious energy lobbying on issues that do not seem immediately relevant to the industry. For example, the restaurant association has lobbied to block the Government from taxing airline frequent-flier miles. Tourists eat out, Mr. Culpepper explained. And frequent-flier miles drive tourism.
Even when it works on issues of direct concern to restaurants, the association sometimes uses arguments that do not bear on its direct self-interest.
For example, the group opposes a measure that would lower the legal blood-alcohol level for drivers to 0.08 percent. In most states now it is 0.10 percent.The association's lobbying arguments are framed around earnest constitutional concerns.
"States would be forced to adopt a 0.08 blood-alcohol level or lose precious Federal highway dollars," one association fact sheet warns. That, it adds, is not the way democracy should work, as "states should have the flexibility to enact measures that they feel would work best in their particular state."
The fact sheet never mentions a more fundamental concern: restaurants might sell fewer drinks.
The restaurant association, founded in 1919, is one of the oldest trade groups in the city. But for most of its history it was a sleepy, back water organization. In recent years, though, it has climbed into the top level of Washington lobbying groups. "Last year, Congress didn't pass anything that hurt us," Elaine Z. Graham, a senior vice president for the association, said with a smile and a lift of the chin. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSN NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSN NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); STATISTICS (88%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (87%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); DINING OUT TRENDS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL HERMAN CAIN (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



42 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Leaving Black Mark on Unions

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
RICHIE PHILLIPS says he will "fight to the death," but unless the courts bail him out, his umpires union is already gone, shot dead with Phillips's own gun, mostly to the cheers of the audience watching this theater of the absurd.
It's a sad story, almost pathetic. But be it the work of arrogance or gross tactical miscalculation or both, Phillips has apparently wrecked his own union and killed off, at last count, 22 careers, not counting his own. In the long run, though, the greater damage may be to the American labor movement, at a time when it is trying to reverse a decades-long decline and can least afford the public relations fallout from Phillips's horrendous call. 
 "Unfortunately, a story like this one reinforces a very old and inaccurate stereotype of big labor, from the 1930's and 1940's, of Jimmy Hoffa and the teamsters," said Tom Juravich, the director of the Labor Center at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. "It creates the notion that it all hinges on the personality of the larger-than-life leader, when the reality is that trade unions should come down to organization, to the day-to-day rank and file."
It's not just Phillips, not just the few dozen umpires who bought into the cockamamie tactic of negotiation by resignation. When the pro basketball players were locked out last fall, they organized a charity game for themselves and wanted to charge $1,000 for a courtside seat. Brother, they seemed to be asking, can you spare a grand?
As anthems go, that one most likely didn't inspire those young high-tech-sector workers, the ones organized labor is desperate to recruit, to bolt from their work stations and run to the nearest union hall.
People always want to talk about how effective sports can be in at least elevating the debate, educating the masses, on hot-button issues. Magic Johnson's infection with the virus that causes AIDS turned up the volume on safe-sex talk. Cancer scares for athletes like Darryl Strawberry supposedly motivate others to get examined. Lance Armstrong gives cancer victims hope. Mark McGwire speaks out against child abuse, and suddenly the cause has been furthered by his 500-foot clout.
"There's no doubt that sports has a tremendous impact on the society, and in many cases, the first taste the youth of this country will get on an issue is through when they read or hear through sports," said Charles Kernaghan, director of the National Labor Committee, a New York-based human rights watchdog group.
That being the case, the notion of this umpires debacle shaping anyone's union sensibility has to be as scary a proposition for organized labor as Ronald Reagan, a marketing disaster along the lines of the air traffic controllers. And what about all this coverage for 68 umpires who make from $75,000 to $225,000, not including bonuses -- is it proportionately in line with the amount of attention 10,000 striking hospital workers would get? Of course it isn't, but sports unions, which once fought valiantly for benefits that the blue-collar worker could at least relate to, have for the most part evolved to represent the celebritization of organized labor.
Their message, however distorted, has tremendous market reach.
"The fact that popular athletes think unions are good may be a counterbalance, but clearly, sports unions reinforce the notion that unions take a self-serving approach and tend to be primarily about money," said Richard Hurd, a professor in labor studies at Cornell University. "In that sense, it's not great for the labor movement."
The umpires' story is not about money, but then, Phillips did not allow the dispute to reach the point where his membership could at least be viewed sympathetically. Phillips has won many battles through the years, many I applauded, but, sorry, baseball's mandated enforcement of the strike zone does not qualify as workplace abuse. The umpires have in the last few years come off as power-drunk, out of touch with their relative importance to the game. The decision by Phillips to have his membership stick its collective head under the guillotine will be remembered as a landmark act of self-destruction that even Michael Moore can't defend.
Even with the knowledge that sports owners rip off taxpayers and hide profits under the pillow, it has become increasingly difficult to support sports unions as the 1990's have wound down. As Hurd suggested, they have failed to articulate a relevant social message, anything beyond greed. When people like Kernaghan have asked popular athletes to speak out against the companies engaged in sweatshop abuses abroad, they are met with deafening silence, individually and collectively. The opportunity to balance the inevitable resentment of their millions, to get the news media back in their camp, is lost.
The union bashing, unfair in how it ultimately affects real union workers, goes on.
"People tend to make choices about union membership based on their own workplace conditions," Hurd said. "But the sports unions, mainly because of the amount of attention they get, do have an impact on public perception."
Here, then, is the public's perception of Richie Phillips: His blind arrogance has led one-third of his membership to the cusp of unemployment. What Phillips is calling a "fight to the death," most people see as group suicide. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE UMPIRES ASSN UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE UMPIRES ASSN UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; UMPIRES REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); AIDS & HIV (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (61%); VIRUSES (61%); CANCER (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; PHILLIPS, RICHIE RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



43 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2196 words

HEADLINE: As Temperatures Rise, a Neighborhood Getaway Beckons

SERIES: SUMMER PLACES: A City Park

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
It was 11:13 in the morning on Wednesday, and the temperature was 88 degrees and climbing. Samuel Marrow, 74, had risen with the sun, but now he wanted out of it. And so, as he had over the course of the last 51 summers, he walked down Quincy Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant and over to the former Tompkins Park, now known as Herbert Von King Park.
A seat in the shade, a moment of mercy after a month of historic heat, was all Mr. Marrow was looking for, and he found it where he always had -- on the bench six strides inside the Greene Avenue entrance. 
 There, in the simple cool, he could see everything, looking back in time as well as straight in front of him. On his right was the tree from which several young boys were hanged in the gang wars of the 1950's. To his left was a line of young children, the children of the neighborhood's poor and working class, running sprints in the sun, the temperature draining from them everything but their smiles.
"I came to Brooklyn from North Carolina after the war," said Mr. Marrow, who back then worked in a shipyard in Kearny, N.J. "I'd get home hot and dirty, but gather my kids and come here. Back then, you could spend the night out in this park. It's always been the coolest park in Brooklyn. There's a lot of history here."
It is the history, in many ways, of a certain kind of summer in New York City, the summers lived out by children for whom a fancy day camp is a pipe dream, summers lived out by fathers and grandmothers for whom vacation is an absolutely local experience. Across the city, there are parks and playgrounds, schoolyards and street corners that have always served as improvised summer retreats, unglamorous, but rich and fully used.
They are found at the backs of falling-apart schools and squeezed between housing projects, or, like Von King Park, standing squarely at the center of a storied neighborhood of culture and strife. And at the height of midsummer, people are driven to them before daybreak, and many don't leave until well past midnight, early bedtimes seeming a needless cruelty.
In those parks and schoolyards, people taste the modest, sweet freedoms and comforts of shade and laughter, invented games, the little dramas of romance and athletics. Of course, they are not places of complete summer sanctity: there is commerce in drugs, sometimes in revenge; people bring their dinner to the park, and others roll dice; anger can rise like the heat, quickly and with menace.
On this day, when the temperature rose to 97 degrees, teen-agers flirted openly, the strength of their hormones undefeated by the heat. And on a center bench, the resident storytellers and wise guys were in full voice, their tales driven by pride and nostalgia, boredom, hope and the brown bags between their feet.
"When it is smoldering everywhere else, there are places in this park that can feel refrigerated," said Lemuel Mial, a Parks Department official who has worked at the park since 1967. "Of course, it's not totally innocent, either. But this, I think, is the bright green spot of the neighborhood. And summer here is going day and night."
To spend 24 hot and unpredictable hours in Von King Park, then, is to appreciate what that kind of summer of constraint and creativity can feel like.
 
6:17 A.M., 78 degrees
Bill Crowder, 54, sat in a quadrangle of the day's first sunlight and opened his flute case. It would be the sixth straight day of temperatures over 90, the 28th day of a month that would become the hottest ever recorded in the city.
"I'm kind of like the gypsy of Bed-Stuy," he said. "Actually, I can play this flute in the house now. My new roommate doesn't mind. But I have to come back to my roots to play. This park is my roots."
Just after daybreak, Von King Park -- its name was changed in 1985 to honor the neighborhood advocate who had earned the unofficial title of "Mayor of Bed-Stuy" -- is populated by the elderly, the unemployed and the ambitious, Tracy Moore's ambition amounting to doing pull-ups on the playground bars before it got too hot and before he had to go to work.
At 6:49 A.M., John Stevens, 73, a former porter, began the park's first game of checkers. "It's too hot and too early to think clearly," he said, laughing, "but it ain't too hot or too early to cheat."
The working people from the streets around the park -- it is bordered by Greene, Lafayette, Marcy and Tompkins Avenues -- also walk through, wearing the uniforms of hospital orderlies and Sanitation Department workers. And they each steal a second or two of breezy relief.
Hard luck can bring people to the park, too. Ruben Gonzalez, 47, played in the park as a child, and he remembered how he used to come dressed in a suit and shoes with his father. Mr. Gonzalez had been away for years, but returned to Von King Park when he was sent there to work for his welfare check.
"They have improved the park a lot, created more things for kids," he said. "I brought my daughter here the other day. I told her it wasn't like this when I was here. But I told her to sit where I had sat. It felt good for me to see that."
By 9 A.M., the sun had climbed up off Tompkins Avenue, a hot coin rising in the sky.
Laurine Harrison, a grandmother and former bookkeeper, sat in a swing, her pleasure nothing more lavish than to stretch her arms and legs. And Eddie Vick, 66, a former boxer who said he twice lost to the former light-heavyweight champion Bob Foster, walked with his grandson, his shirt soaked across his broad shoulders, his grandson's hand lost in his aging boxer's fist.
Marcus Bryant, 11, had waited in his Greene Avenue apartment for hours before getting the final O.K. to go to the park with his brother, Kaheem, to play their invented game of Black Mat Tag. "This park is enough for us," Marcus said.
 
12:49 P.M., 92 degrees
Aaron Jolly, 15, walked onto the basketball court at the southeast corner of Von King Park. There, with five others, the day's first game started. It was a game of dubious shot selections and endless talk, with the chief conversational constant being the total failure to mention the word "job."
"Work? I'm working on my jump shot," said Aaron, his laugh as soft as his shot floating through the netless hoop. Aaron is one of eight siblings, and he said he had worked earlier in the summer at a nursing home. He was waiting to be called back. Now, though, he listened only for the call of "next."
A generational shift had taken place at the park as the afternoon arrived. It is largely the young who are out in the midday heat, and even they treated the sunlight as a flame to dodge.
The youngsters, some of whom are with the day camp run by the Brooklyn Tabernacle Deliverance Center, come from the row houses along the park's borders, and from the Louis Armstrong projects on Quincy Street, a set of buildings that function as squat, remorseless ovens. The children turn the park's asphalt paths into racing strips, and the two sprinklers empty a reservoir's worth of water into the air.
It is not Cape Cod, but it is more than all right, something deeper than simply a last resort.
"I have two options," said Stacey Tyler, the mother of six children, four of whom were with her in the sprinkler. "I can stay at home and run the hose on them, or I can use the city's water. I just got my water bill, and so that settled that."
The park has a rich history. In 1857, it became the first park formally established by the City of Brooklyn, and it was first named for Daniel D. Tompkins, the abolitionist and four-term Governor of New York. Its final design was by Calvert Vaux and Frederick Law Olmsted, the designers of Central Park. A library once stood at its center, and it was often used for military reviews. It is full of oak and maple trees, their branches forming, in some sections, enormous awnings of protection.
The multiple uses of the park are organized, accidental and occasionally urgent. There are nighttime concerts, and a handful of dance and arts programs are run out of the park building. A local church that had been damaged by fire now conducts its Sunday services in the park's outdoor auditorium.
And it gets used, too, as a place for people to come and hold hands.
"I came because of the heat," Luisa Matos said.
Next to her, Shawn Blake smiled.
"I came for love," he said.
The two, both 19, had just discovered Von King Park, and shortly after 2 P.M., with the temperature at 95 degrees, they sat side by side and talked of their future. They had dated for two and a half years, and had moved to Brooklyn only months before from St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. They had taken an apartment together and were looking for work. Von King Park offered a place for their hearts to calm down.
"I don't know how it will work out," Ms. Matos said. "I want to go to school as well as work. But it's going to be hard, I think." She put her head on her boyfriend's shoulder and closed her eyes.
 
6:10 P.M., 96 degrees
The sun's slow, almost exhausted decline over Marcy Avenue at the west end of Von King Park had done nothing to thwart the temperature's ascent. Through that heat and the first hints of twilight, Homer Stewart walked with his 6-year-old son, Kwame. Mr. Stewart, who works for a bank in Flatbush, had changed his suit for shorts and was about to have his first game of catch with his son, an exercise in sweat and tenderness.
"He's the baseball lover," Mr. Stewart said of his son. "And we are here to register for the park's baseball program."
Soon, the two moved to the ball field at the northwest corner, where the games begin after dusk and amid the eternal illusion that it might be cooler at that time of day.
The park in the early evening is fuller than ever, its characters including the near-permanent residents who have, during the day, moved from one bench to another, their courses charted by their own private maps of quiet desires and distractions.
One of them is Queen Curry, 69. She was born in Camden, S.C., but moved to Bedford-Stuyvesant 30 years ago and raised four children. The park was always there, full of pleasures and perils. She said one of her children had been ensnared by the drug scene that prevailed at the park years ago. "I've made a whole circle around this park," she said, listing the houses she had lived in on the surrounding streets. "But I always walked through it."
Some choose to march through it, and shortly after 8 P.M., the sounds of a drum and bugle corps rose from the park's north end. There, gathering for practice, were the Toppers, who say they make up the oldest active African-American drum corps in the country.
In sunglasses and baseball caps, Victor English and Daniel Wright, bugles in their white-gloved hands, worked their way through a medley as night fell. "We're doing this as a hook for kids in the park," Mr. English said. "I started in 1961, and the drum corps taught me discipline, self-respect. And it gave me the chance to get out of this city."
 
9:11 P.M., 89 degrees
With the darkness, the degrees of separation in the park had grown more stark. Certain corners of the park had grown slightly sinister, taken over by teen-agers and other young men and women, the language often loud and hard.
"People say this park is nice, that it has grass and whatnot," said a 16-year-old who identified himself as Little G. "But young people get hurt in this place, too. And the police precinct is right on the corner. But they don't care."
Still, almost everyone, including police officers at the 79th Precinct at the southeast corner of the park, agrees that Von King Park has come a long way during the last decade on the question of safety. There were years, Officer Jeannette Morales said, when almost all the pursuits of criminal suspects either started, ran through or wound up in the park.
"I don't think we even track the number of incidents in the park these days, the number is so low," said Officer Morales, who has been the precinct's community affairs officer for six years. "Cops even play handball in there."
That sense of security is hardly universal, though. A girl was raped in the park on July 22.
But, as late night approached, there still were mothers in the park with their children, gamely hanging on and hanging out by the sprinklers, the spray of water looking in the dark air like a kind of fine smoke.
Maria Figueroa was there with her daughter Angelica, 3, who ran through the sprinkler endlessly. The night hours in the park are what Ms. Figueroa can manage, for she does not get off work until 6. They would stay until Angelica fell asleep.
"This is a place where you feel like you can break away," Ms. Figueroa said. "Break away from the heat. And, you know, break away from the ordinary."
With midnight coming, and the forecast calling for four more days of 90-degree heat, a breeze still ran through Von King Park, a breeze that felt freighted with something -- rain, mischief, peace, the scent of summer.
 
ON THE WEB
To read the previous article in this series, visit The New York Times on the Web at http:// www.nytimes.com/nyregion
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Little Refuge In a Record July -- In front of her brownstone on Degraw Street in Brooklyn, Connie Bertrami and her grandchildren were hoping to find a cool spot. In Chicago, 26 people died from the heat on Friday and yesterday. In New York, smog is worse than it has been in more than a decade. Sweltering masses are asking whether something new is happening to the weather. Articles, pages 18, 27 and 31. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Bill Crowder, 54, greeting the sun by playing the flute in Herbert Von King Park in Brooklyn. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1); 7 A.M. -- John Stevens, left, and Bill Myers are among the first checkers players of the day at the park. 1 P.M. -- The young dominate the park at midday, and the two sprinklers there help them beat the heat. 7 P.M. -- The promise of seeing a ball game draws neighborhood children to the park in the early evening. 8 P.M. -- Night falls, and music fills the air at the park as the Toppers work their way through a medley. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)(pg. 30)
 
Map showing the location of Herbert Von King Park: Herbert Von King Park has a rich history that dates from 1857. (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HERBERT VON KING PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HEAT WEATHER (90%); CHILDREN (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); GANGS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



44 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: House and Senate Tax Cut Bills Would Give Businesses Billions in Long-Sought Benefits

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
As House and Senate leaders try to reach a deal on tax cuts, it is not just the average taxpayer who has something at stake. A wide array of businesses and industries is fighting to protect tens of billions of dollars in special benefits that have made the competing tax cut bills the most lucrative for business in years.
With the new era of surpluses leading Republicans to push for the largest tax cut since Ronald Reagan's in 1981, the latest bills have proved a bonanza for the lobbyists who clog the corridors outside the House and Senate tax-writing committees. 
 In several instances, the vast $792 billion tax cut measures passed by the House last week and the Senate on Friday give corporations victories that they have been seeking since President Reagan crowned his second term with an overhaul of the tax code. That overhaul made way for a reduction in individual tax rates by closing scores of corporate loopholes.
Many lobbyists say they had been stymied for years because Federal deficits had made tax breaks with a large cost to the Treasury unthinkable. But with a pro-business Republican Congress now dealing with a Federal surplus, Clint Stretch, the director of tax policy at the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, was only half joking when he said that some of the tax breaks in these bills were ones companies had been seeking "probably since the dawn of time."
Along with broad-based personal tax cuts, the House bill includes $80 billion or more in business tax reductions over the next 10 years, while the Senate bill has about $50 billion. Despite their differences, each of the two bills provides $792 billion in total tax cuts over the decade.
The measures include tax relief for multinational corporations and for small businesses, assistance to the oil and gas industry, aid to the nuclear energy industry, a tax reduction for railroads and one for seaplanes, and a reduction in the corporate capital gains tax that analysts say will be particularly helpful to the insurance and timber industries.
Whatever plan emerges from conference faces a veto from President Clinton because of its size. And it will be months before the shape and contents of a final package will be clear. But industries and their lobbyists were still scrambling to get their provisions into the bills, in hopes that they would be favored for inclusion in the final bill. And some seemed almost giddy at their success.
"We got the sun, moon and the stars," said Kathleen O'Leary, a lobbyist for the National Restaurant Association, which in the House bill won a phased-in provision to make 80 percent of the cost of business meals tax deductible, instead of the current 50 percent.
The business meal deduction had been reduced in President Clinton's deficit reduction package of 1993. Ms. O'Leary said the association had hoped to win it back inch by inch. In fact, the association had been supporting legislation that would raise the deduction to 80 percent only for companies that earned $5 million or less. But the House applied it to all business, at a cost to the Treasury of $8.4 billion.
Republican leaders defend the tax provisions as ones that will help declining industries and keep American business competitive overseas. "These tax relief measures will make sure that we are competitive in the next century and that we can keep our economic growth moving in the right direction," said John P. Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert.
But Congress is promoting such tax breaks at the same time it is struggling to find ways to cut scores of domestic programs by 10 percent or more to stay within the boundaries of the 1997 balanced budget agreement.
And that has led Democrats to charge that Republicans are putting special interests ahead of the common good. "Without a single dime of the surplus dedicated to strengthening Medicare, the Republicans managed to shovel in almost $100 billion worth of tax breaks for special interests," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader.
One Republican, Senator John McCain of Arizona, voted for the Senate tax bill but also excoriated some special interest provisions.
"How can we justify giving a $33 million tax break next year to companies producing electricity from chicken waste, when senior citizens have to forgo some of their Social Security benefits if they must work to make ends meet?" he asked.
Of course, Democrats have their favored causes, too. On the final day of debate on the Senate tax cut, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, won a tax break for maple syrup producers who tap trees on timberlands. Under the provision, they would have the same income threshold for paying unemployment tax as maple syrup producers whose trees are on farms.
In many cases, industries argue that they are just receiving tax treatment equivalent to that granted other businesses or clearing up quirks in the tax laws. But such changes can raise broader policy questions.
Take the tax provision won by military contractors. Since the early 1970's, Congress has used the tax code to subsidize United States exports by allowing American companies to exempt about 15 percent of their export income from tax. But in 1976, Congress decided that weapons exporters should get only half the tax benefits allotted other exporters.
Representative Sam Johnson, a Texas Republican who took up the cause of the military contractors, said in a letter to House members, "Let's stop using the tax code to punish our defense industry."
He argued for and won a provision in the House bill to give the contractors the same tax treatment as other exporters -- at a cost to the Treasury of $1.1 billion over a decade. The Senate bill phases in the change differently, costing $798 million over the same period.
But not all members of Congress see such a subsidy as a public good. "Why in the world, when the U.S. has such a substantial portion of the market, do taxpayers need to subsidize us to promote conventional arms races all around the world?" asked Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas.
In fact, the military contractors' victory may prove short-lived. Lawmakers say a panel at the World Trade Organization recently made a preliminary ruling that this entire provision of the American tax code was an illegal export subsidy.
One of the largest business provisions in the House tax bill is a change in the way multinational corporations are allowed to allocate their worldwide interest deductions. The change has the effect of allowing them to take more credits for paying taxes overseas, and thus reduce their domestic taxes.
In the House bill, which phases the change in faster than the Senate's, the cost to the Treasury is $24.8 billion over a decade. The Senate version would cost $12.6 billion. "It's an expensive provision to fix," said William H. Laitinen, assistant general tax counsel to General Motors, one of the many companies that wanted the change. "But now there's some more leeway from the projected surplus."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); VETO (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



45 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: City to Offer Low-Interest Loans For Manhattan Blackout Losses

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
After the Federal Government refused to provide emergency assistance, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the city would make low-interest loans available to business people in Washington Heights to help them recoup losses incurred because of the July 6 blackout.
The program, extending loans of $3,000 to $50,000, was announced amid harsh recriminations from City Hall, focusing both on Con Edison, which the Mayor has blamed for the blackout, and on the United States Small Business Administration. 
 "The response of the S.B.A. has been outrageous," Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota said yesterday, after several days of requests and appeals to the Federal agency ended with what he called a "flat refusal to help."
Mayor Giuliani, in announcing the loan program, blamed Con Edison's decision to cut power to much of Upper Manhattan during the sweltering heat of July 6 for leaving 200,000 people and 700 businesses without air conditioning, refrigeration or lights.
Under the program, to be administered by the city's Economic Development Corporation, loans would be intended to supplement cash payments by Con Edison, which is offering up to $2,000 to each business hurt by the blackout. To qualify, business people must demonstrate that their damages exceed $2,000, and that the city financing will be used for such things as replacing equipment and inventory.
Jerome M. Hauer, director of the city's Office of Emergency Management, said the interest rates for the loans would be determined by the income of the applicant. He said the rates had not been set, but would be below conventional bank financing.
Mr. Hauer said that a city office would be set up in Washington Heights to administer the loans, but that a site had not been selected. Officials said business people who want to apply for the financing should call the Economic Development Corporation at 212-312 3600. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LUECK, THOMAS J RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



46 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
What's the Problem?

 BODY:
Now more than at just about any time since World War II, there seems to be no issue that dominates the concerns of Americans. A relatively long period of prosperity, low unemployment and falling crime rates have led to a period when there are few galvanizing public concerns; the worries of Americans are scattered and, possibly, more personal. 
 This leaves potential Presidential candidates with a problem. As they try to stake out their political ground for the 2000 election, there is no obvious, single issue that is sure to appeal to a large number of voters. That was not always so. From the economy to the cost of living to fears about war and nuclear holocaust, Americans have worried in great numbers over the years, giving politicians plenty of guidance about what is likely to nudge them to the polls.
 
From nationwide Gallup polls taken over the last half-century, here are the top topics named when respondents were asked: What do you think is the most important problem facing the country today?
 
(Timeline runs from 1950 to 1999)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Some Events That May Have Been an Influence"
 
1950 -- Korean War. Senator Joseph R. McCarthy issues his first accusations of Communists in government.
 
1954 -- Secretary of State John Foster Dulles vows massive retalia 2/3tion against Soviet aggression.
 
1955 -- The Supreme Court orders school desegregation to proceed with all deliberate speed.
 
1957 -- Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina sets all-time filibuster record (24 hours, 27 minutes) with speech against civil rights.
 
1960 -- U-2 spy plane, with the Ameri 2/3can pilot Francis Gary Powers, is shot down over the Soviet Union.
 
1963 -- The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. leads civil rights marches in the South and delivers his I Have a Dream speech at the March on Washington.
 
1965 -- U.S. troops are authorized to undertake offen 2/3sive operations in South Vietnam.
 
1970 -- Four students are killed by National Guard units at Kent State University in Ohio.
 
1973 -- Senator Sam Ervin of North Carolina heads Senate investigation of the Watergate scandal on national television.
 
1973 -- Gas prices skyrocket after Arab nations embargo oil exports to U.S.
 
1973-75 -- The nation is stuck in recession.
 
1977 -- President Carter calls for moral equivalent of war in energy conservation.
 
1979 -- Iranian militants seize U.S. Embassy in Teheran, taking 66 American hostages. U.S. inflation reaches its highest level in 33 years.
 
1983 -- Muslim terrorists kill 240 U.S. Marines in a suicide bombing in Lebanon.
 
1987 -- President Reagan submits first trillion-dollar budget to Congress as deficits mount.
 
1994 -- The Bureau of Justice Statistics announces that the number of inmates topped one million, giving the U.S. the highest incarcer 2/3ation rate in the world.
 
1999 -- Two students open fire in a Colorado high school killing 15, including themselves.
 
*Data for 1955 and 1960 not available.
 
(Source: Gallup Poll)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN (59%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%); 

COMPANY: KENT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); KENT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: KENT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); KENT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN (59%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WORLD WAR II (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); COST OF LIVING (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



47 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Palestinian Objections
Palestinian officials said that an Israeli proposal to change their most recent peace agreement was not acceptable. PAGE 4
 
Progress Report on Welfare
Thirty-five percent of all adult welfare recipients were working or preparing to work last year, the Clinton Administration said. PAGE 16 

Trading Day in New York
The Yankees bring back a post-season hero, Jim Leyritz, while the Mets make a flurry of deals for pitching and outfield help. SPORTSSUNDAY
 
SPECIAL TODAY
Wake-Up Call for Students: The Question Is What Time?
The school day is long and getting longer, and it starts before dawn for many high school students. At 7 A.M., should your child be in class or in bed? EDUCATION LIFE
 
Art of the Moment
At the Venice Biennale, the art is of the moment and only the moment. The artists have caught on to the short attention span and impatient gaze of people walking among hundreds of disparate works. ARTS & LEISURE
 
Love, Italian Style
Experience transforms people, but only little by little; that's the hard truth of Valerie Martin's novel "Italian Fever," whose American heroine falls in love with an Italian who can't fool her for a minute. Reviewed by Craig Seligman. BOOK REVIEW
 
The Mayor's Makeover
A pensive and playful side of Rudolph W. Giuliani is starting to emerge as he prepares for a probable Senate run. But the old Rudy is never too far away. MAGAZINE
 
Squeezed in the Middle
Though the headlines all say economic boom, families at the statistical center of the nation's income scale -- about $48,000 a year -- still struggle to make ends meet. MONEY & BUSINESS
 
Lions Regroup, Minus Star
Amid a lingering atmosphere of disbelief, the Detroit Lions gathered to being practicing for the coming season, still unsure why Barry Sanders suddenly retired. SPORTSSUNDAY
 
Irish Isles, Lakes and Rivers
Legends outnumber people on the islands off Connemara, anglers outnumber fish at three country lodges, and an Inishmore cemetery outnumbers all others in saints. TRAVEL
 
Revolutionary
Watch out, Forbidden City. Now Orwell's on the Internet. WEEK IN REVIEW
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK METS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK METS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FAMILY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SPORT FISHING (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); LAKES (62%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



48 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: We Deserve a Tax Cut, but at What Price?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I fear the Republican-led tax cut plan because of what it may do to interest rates (news article, July 30). Like a tax cut, paying off the national debt may have the effect of heating up the economy, but at least it might lower interest rates. 
 Many people who will get little or no benefit from a tax cut will be greatly affected by interest rate increases. The vast majority of Americans who pay most of the taxes will likely see their variable-rate credit cards and mortgages rise far more than any tax-cut savings.
 
DENNIS WALTMAN
Atlanta, July 30, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: WALTMAN, DENNIS

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



49 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: We Deserve a Tax Cut, but at What Price?;
Exaggerated Burden

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The "tax share" data that you published in a graph accompanying a July 26 front-page article are misleading. The data, which as you note, were supplied by the Republican staff of the Committee on Ways and Means, were meant to bolster their argument that very high income groups deserve a large share of a new tax cut. Yet because major nonprogressive Federal taxes like the payroll taxes are left out, the data exaggerate the share of total Federal taxes paid by the very affluent. 
 You labeled 40 percent as the "share of taxes" paid by those with individual incomes of $200,000 and up. The Joint Committee on Taxation did estimate 40 percent for the share of income taxes, but for all Federal taxes, their estimate is only 25 percent. The committee also estimates that the share of the House-passed tax cut for this same income group exceeds 25 percent.
 
AL DAVIS
Chief Economist, Democratic Staff
Committee on Ways and Means
Washington, July 27, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMITTEE ON WAYS&MEANS (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON WAYS&MEANS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, AL ALLEN 'AL' DAVIS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



50 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14WC;Page 8;Column 3;Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: New Housing That Doesn't Break the Bank

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
WHEN the subject is housing, "project" is a word Frank J. Carito hates. "It conveys a negative image of low-cost housing," he said. "For years we've been working to get rid of the assumption that low-cost housing is undesirable housing."
Mr. Carito, a former mayor of New Rochelle, heads the New Rochelle Neighborhood Revitalization Corporation, a nonprofit company that has built affordable housing in New Rochelle for nearly 20 years. 
 "By creating the group, the public sector was far-sighted enough to acknowledge that the private sector is better suited to plan and develop affordable housing," Mr. Carito said.
"I don't think that there is another community anywhere that can match our record," he continued. "We've constructed or renovated more than 1,000 housing units valued at over $30 million, and it's a shame that other municipalities don't know how to do what we're doing. In addition, we've never had a demonstration or outcry from any group trying to discourage us from bringing low-cost housing into a neighborhood."
One success Mr. Carito likes to tell about is the transformation of what was formerly called the "projects," the MacLeay Apartments, a 3-building, 180-apartment complex built in 1949 on Fifth Avenue in New Rochelle near the Larchmont border.
"By the mid-80's MacLeay was a deteriorated, poorly maintained public housing complex, several hundred thousand dollars in tax arrears and a financial blight on the City," Mr. Carito said. "At the time, taking a public housing complex private was unique in subsidized housing development. We bought it from the Housing Authority and paid the outstanding taxes, completely rehabilitated it inside and out, including the community center for use as an after-school homework center, with teachers from a local middle school, and a computer center, which links the local schools to the apartment complex."
Furthermore, he said, not only are the MacLeay Apartments now a safe and desirable place to live but there has also been a financial turnaround. Before conversion the complex was losing $250,000 a year. Now it makes a profit of more than $600,000 annually.
Housing needs are varied, and shortages in moderate-priced houses and low-income, elderly and family rental housing in New Rochelle have led to the construction of 525 units of various types of housing, including apartments and single-family residences, Charles J. DePasquale, the Neighborhood Revitalization Corporation's executive vice president, said.
Since its creation in 1979, the New Rochelle Neighborhood Revitalization Association has been assisted by grants from agencies including the New York State Affordable Housing Corporation, Westchester County Housing Implementation Funds, the Federal Home Program and Land Write Down Costs by the City of New Rochelle -- which was a key component in acquiring property at a reduced cost -- and the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Renewal Development.
The newest development, the Lawn Avenue affordable housing project -- 10 Colonial-style, two-family town houses near downtown -- opened in late May.
It has already helped turn a blighted and deteriorating neighborhood around, Mr. DePasquale said, adding that affordable housing, when occupied by the owner, is the single most important catalyst to the revitalization and stability of a neighborhood. Each town house on Lawn Avenue contains a three-bedroom unit for low-income families and a three-room rental unit for people at least 62 years old. The one-bedroom unit rents for $840 a month but tenants who are at least 62 years old pay only 30 percent of their income in rent, which could be considerably less.
"Those are the two groups most in need," Mr. DePasquale said. "They have been paying up to 50 percent of their income for housing."
The town house project, which cost $3 million, was built with grants from the Federal Home Program, the State Affordable Housing Corporation and Westchester County. The houses, which cost $142,000 each, were drawn by lottery and 370 people applied, and of those only 59 were eligible and of that number, 10 were the winners and became owners.
"We are so happy," said Javier Zamora, a construction worker whoowns a Lawn Avenue house. "It was a big surprise for me, especially since I was the last one picked in the lottery. We lived in a small apartment for 12 years with our two kids and had no hope of getting a house, The kids are jumping all over the place. They love it."
Mr. Zamora's wife, Maria, a Laundromat attendant, is also enthusiastic. "I still can't believe it," she said. "It is a dream come true. I never thought we would have our own house. It is all new and beautiful."
The tenants of the Zamoras, James Moore and Linda Scott, longtime residents of New Rochelle, agreed. Their new apartment is one of the nicest places they have ever lived in. They pay $252 for their apartment, which is 30 percent of their income, following the guidelines for subsidized housing.
"It's wonderful," Ms. Scott, a home health care aide, said. "Everything is so nice and attractive. We're very glad to be here."
Mr. Moore, a retired operations supervisor for the Lillian Vernon Corporation, said: "It's a terrific apartment. The appliances, and everything is brand new."
One of the stipulations of the lottery is that these houses cannot be sold for 10 years, Mr. Carito said. "Such is the pride of home ownership that even when the 10-year restriction prohibiting selling runs out and owners are free to sell their homes at a profit of 25 percent, they choose not to," Mr. Carito said. "That's what we've seen happen with one of our first projects, the 14 town houses built on Lincoln Avenue in 1987. No one has sold."
The most ambitious and most complex project to date, is West End 2000, a $30 million development on a four-acre site bounded by Union Avenue, First Street, Jones Street and Second Street in the western section of New Rochelle, Mr. Carito said.
"The Revitalization Corporation is the sponsor and developer," Mr. DePasquale said. "It's a multiple-use residential development and will contain the first 100-unit, low-income, assisted-living facility in Westchester and 66 single-family duplex homes for first-time buyers. We expect that West End 2000 will stop the ongoing deterioration in this aged and blighted neighborhood."
What has become accepted housing policy today was the idea of a handful of people in the New Rochelle Department of Development, Mr. DePasquale said. When the group of people asked for support from the city to create a nonprofit corporation to implement housing policy and build affordable housing "the idea was truly visionary and untested," Mr. Carito said. "It was also a way to keep politics out of low-income housing.
"The city administration approved the concept of a private not-for-profit corporation directing the programs as long as it wasn't a burden to the taxpayers."
Indeed, it has been anything but that. The construction of 525 new housing units generates more than $340,000 in annual taxes. The Revitalization Corporation earns its revenues from developer fees, service contracts with the city or third-party vendors. "Nor have we taken any direct subsidy for administrative costs," Mr. Carito said. "Our seven board members are volunteers. What says a lot about them is that in 20 years no one has been ousted from the board because of missing meetings. That's our rule: you're out if you miss three meetings."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about private development of low-cost housing misstated the surname of the head of the New Rochelle Revitalization Corporation. He is Frank J. Garito, not Carito.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Javier and Maria Zamora, their son, Jonathan, and daughter, Cynthia, in New Rochelle with tenants, James Smith and Linda Scott, on lower steps. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ROCHELLE NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); HOMEWORK (62%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



51 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 2;Column 4;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
A Maverick Has Plans for Chicago

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
ANDREW J. FILIPOWSKI, the maverick software entrepreneur who sold Platinum Technology International to Computer Associates last month for $3.5 billion, was reclining in his limousine on Tuesday, listening to his voice mail and shooting off responses -- "Barbara, can you check on this right away?" -- on his way downtown. Between calls, Mr. Filipowski told a reporter that his next challenge was to turn Chicago into a "center for cyberspace," which is why he was on his way to meet Mayor Richard M. Daley. On Wednesday, it was Gov. George Ryan.
"There's no question Chicago has lagged Silicon Valley in a very distant way," Mr. Filipowski said. "The fact is, we need a more diversified economy, and I want to provide financing, support and mentoring to the high-tech community here." As a first step, he is seeking to raise $1 billion in venture capital to finance local Internet start-ups. 
 Politicians are listening to Mr. Filipowski -- "Flip" to his friends -- because no city or state wants to miss the revolution in high technology. And to people here, no one is more capable of bringing the wired world to the land of hog futures. "Until Flip came there was no visionary here," said Darcy Evon, editor of the i-Street Reporter, an on-line newsletter that tracks the city's fledgling venture capital community. "So we're ecstatic; he's going to put Chicago on the map."
He put himself on the map by parlaying a company he started in 1987 in the Chicago suburb of Oakbrook Terrace into the biggest software deal in history, largely by going on an acquisition spree that included more than 70 software companies. He personally netted $290 million from the sale to Computer Associates.
Mr. Filipowski remains something of an eccentric here, with a look that friends describe as part California beach boy, part aging rock star. There's the ponytail, the earring, the Hawaiian shirts and the Tommy Bahama slacks. "You can characterize Flip as an unorthodox C.E.O., with respect to background, appearance and a kind of cult-like personality," said Wendell Laidley, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "But he worked hard to reposition a company that could have easily been destroyed by its competitors."
Mr. Filipowski was born in Chicago in 1950, the only son of Polish immigrants. His father was a butcher and his mother a welder in a family where English wasn't even the second language. "I grew up speaking Polish," he said. "I didn't know anything about English until the first day of school. It was a shock."
Later, he went to a military boarding school, where he liked the discipline but not the dress code. He dropped out of college after a year and took a computer job at Time-Life in Chicago. He later worked at Motorola and Cullinet Software.
By the time he was 28, he was vying for the top spot at Cullinet. When it didn't come, he formed his own data management company. He left it some years later, after a dispute with investors, and founded Platinum Technology. Along the way, he was married, at 19, divorced and remarried.
Friends say Mr. Filipowski has very distinctive traits. He doesn't seem to sleep much ("I get E-mail messages at the most ungodly hours," a friend said); doesn't smoke, drink or even take medicine ("I'm very suspicious of medicine," he said); speed-reads cartons of mail and books on his chartered plane trips (he used to teach an Evelyn Wood course), and collects sports memorabilia (he has a Joe DiMaggio uniform and Joe Louis's heavyweight title belt).
He has also founded myriad companies, going on a Platinum kick: Platinum Construction; Platinum Development, a real estate concern; Platinum Entertainment, a music label, and Platinum Ventures.
The venture-capital company, which backed businesses like Star Media Network, an on-line service for Latin America, will now concentrate on Internet start-ups. He is changing the name to Divine Interventures, brashly alluding to his almost godlike powers here, and is planning a high-technology campus on the Chicago River. The city and state are seeking his help to create their own high-technology incubator.
Not all his ventures win acclaim. The Blue Rhino Corporation, a low-technology public company he founded with his sister-in-law's husband, Billy Prim, exchanges full propane cylinders, mostly for backyard grills, for empty ones. Federal filings show that the company's primary distributors are privately owned companies in which Mr. Filipowski and Mr. Prim have a minority stake. Several analysts have called the relationships between the companies "incestuous" and troublesome, raising questions about whether the distributors would receive overly favorable treatment from Blue Rhino.
Mr. Filipowski, however, said his investments in the distributors were necessary because they did not have the money or clout to support Blue Rhino's operations. "It's nothing to be suspicious about," he said, adding that Blue Rhino's dealings with the distributors were all at arm's length.
For unrelated reasons, Blue Rhino recently had to restate and lower its earnings, one reason the stock has been hammered of late.
Mr. Filipowski would rather talk about charities he has founded, including Panthera Productions, which makes wildlife documentaries, and Digital Schoolhouse, which brings technology to inner-city children.
Now he wants to become a more significant mentor to budding Internet entrepreneurs. "Entrepreneurship can be a truly philanthropic effort," he said. "Helping people start a company is a better form of charity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about Andrew J. Filipowski, the software entrepreneur, misstated the month that one of his companies, Platinum Technology International, was acquired by Computer Associates. The deal was completed in June, not last month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew J. Filipowski, who friends say seems rarely to sleep and often to work, even on chartered jets, wants to turn the city of broad shoulders into a "center for cyberspace." (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMPUTER ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC (CA) CA INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPUTER ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC (CA) NEW YORK JETS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FAMILY (74%); FUTURES (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); STARTUPS (68%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (66%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (64%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: FILIPOWSKI, ANDREW J ANDREW J FILIPOWSKI (94%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); RICHARD M DALEY (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999



52 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Discipline the Poor?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Gertrude Himmelfarb's July 28 Op-Ed article on "compassionate conservatism" recalled for me, a young historian, the efforts of 17th- and 18th-century England to deal with an increasingly impoverished majority. The English philosophers and economists of that day recommended strict state involvement in dealing with the "idle poor," who were seen as drains on society. Today, however, the liberal ethic that helped build our society remains based on removing the burdens on the poor rather than on trying to discipline them. 
 The concept of "compassionate conservatism" roots itself in a Protestant Christian faith in free-market capitalism in which work is seen as a virtue that leads to salvation. By replacing the word "Christian" with "compassionate," conservatives seek to recast their vision without making fundamental changes in their approach, which has failed to alleviate poverty in the past three centuries.
 
DANIEL BYRNE
Toms River, N.J., July 29, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (69%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); HISTORY (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (71%); ETHICS (69%); RELIGION (68%); 

PERSON: BYRNE, DANIEL; HIMMELFARB, GERTRUDE GERTRUDE HIMMELFARB (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



53 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA TALK;
A Growing Internet Business Magazine Adds a Familiar Byline

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
If anyone in journalism has nine lives, James Fallows does. Mr. Fallows, a former editor of U.S. News and World Report, outspoken press critic, author of "Breaking the News: How the Media Undermine American Democracy" and -- most recently -- Microsoft consultant, will join The Industry Standard magazine as a columnist.
Jonathan Weber, the editor in chief of the Standard, a weekly Internet-business magazine published by International Data Group, is expected to announce the appointment tomorrow. And Mr. Fallows will have plenty of company: within the last month, Mr. Weber has lured reporters and editors away from several news organizations, including Thomas Goetz from The Wall Street Journal, Kenneth Li from The New York Daily News, and staff members from Inc. magazine, Wired and The San Jose Mercury News. 
 And on Friday, Mr. Weber hired Amy Bernstein, the editorial director of Brill's Content magazine. He said the editorial staff, which last month had 27 members, would grow to 45 by the end of September.
Mr. Weber said that he had begun to think of the San Francisco-based Standard as the Rolling Stone of the Internet business economy, and of Mr. Fallows as a columnist who will help attract a broader readership.
"We are focused on the phenomenon of Internet business," Mr. Weber said. "But it is such a big and influential phenomenon with so many different dimensions that there's an enormous amount of interest from people who are not in the business."
The Standard's unaudited circulation base is 115,000; by contrast, Wired's is 425,000. The Standard says its advertising pages grew 140 percent from June 1998 to June 1999, with gains averaging 30 percent every quarter since the magazine was founded in April 1998.
Mr. Fallows said that in joining the staff, he was "trying to create some version of my pre-U.S. News life, which is writing books, magazine articles and writing a frequent column."
He added: "My plan is basically to write about the outside world and the Internet. What should the outside world make of these castles being made of sand or of steel girders every day? How should people building these castles think of themselves historically and in the eyes of their citizens? Think of me as an interested amateur observer." ALEX KUCZYNSKI
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Fallows will write for The Industry Standard magazine. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRY STANDARD (MAGAZINE); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDUSTRY STANDARD (MAGAZINE); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES INTERNET & WWW (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; FALLOWS, JAMES JAMES FALLOWS (93%); JONATHAN WEBER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



54 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 6; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Illuminating Dark Secrets in Victorian Buffalo

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

CITY OF LIGHT
By Lauren Belfer
518 pages. The Dial Press. $24.95.
 In one of its dimensions, Lauren Belfer's impressive debut, "City of Light," is a stereopticon of a novel, sepia-tinged at the edges yet bursting with color at its center. Its title refers to Buffalo at the turn of the 20th century, when that city by Lake Erie and Niagara Falls was a leading commercial center, a vital maritime and railway hub, the most important inland port in America, a gateway between East and West and, in the words of Louisa Barrett, the novel's narrator, "flush in an era of extraordinary economic prosperity and civic optimism." 
 The city was proud to have sent two presidents to the White House, Millard Fillmore and Grover Cleveland, and of being chosen as the site of a world's fair to be called the Pan-American Exposition, which, as Louisa relates, "would celebrate the commercial links between North and South America as well as America's technological breakthroughs, particularly in the area of electricity, which was being developed at nearby Niagara Falls."
 About the promise of that electricity, Louisa's friend, Thomas Sinclair, the director of the power station at Niagara, tells her: "I have found light. Literally. It's become a kind of religion to me, as sacrilegious as that may sound: creating electricity from water, using alternating current to send the electricity wherever it's needed." Tom concludes: "Electrification is a fundamental change in the nature of life itself. I know that sounds ridiculous, but it's true."
Of course there are also those who are less optimistic about the city's prospects. The workers who must inhabit industrial shantytowns, the women whose roles are constricted by Buffalo society, the black people who feel misrepresented by the Pan-American Exposition, the so-called Preservationists, who worry that the production of electricity may divert all the water from glorious Niagara Falls: these people see Buffalo as a city of darkness.
In the crosscurrents of these powerful forces, Louisa shares the intimacies of her life with us. To all appearances a spinster and bluestocking whose position as headmistress of the elite Macaulay School has earned her the confidence of the city's leaders, Louisa harbors a secret concerning Tom's young daughter, Grace. As Louisa explains, 10 years earlier her best friend, Margaret Sinclair, after years of childless marriage to Tom, "had feigned pregnancy when she learned that a child from a good family might be available for adoption."
Louisa had been the intermediary in that arrangement, under circumstances threatening to respectability, of whose details she believes she alone is aware. In gratitude the Sinclairs had made her Grace's godmother. In the meantime Margaret had finally become pregnant but had died in childbirth, and Louisa has grown ever closer to Grace and Tom. Now, at the novel's opening, the murder of one of the power plant's engineers not only serves to concentrate the city's contending social forces, it also threatens Louisa's relationship with her beloved goddaughter.
This somewhat fustily Victorian plot is not the novel's strength. The evidence of who committed the murder points so strongly to Tom that the reader knows he cannot possibly have been responsible. And for anyone even dimly aware of American history, the knowledge that eventually President McKinley will show up at the Pan-American Exposition and be assassinated hangs somewhat heavily over the story's development.
Yet the plot, which is serviceable enough, is not really what counts in "City of Light." What matters more is the vivid sense of the time and place that Ms. Belfer has created: the heaviness of the architecture with its classical pillars and coffered ceilings and mahogany wainscoting; the layout of the city with its system of parks designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, and the weight of a social order in which commerce alone conferred power.
Louisa glimpses the light, both literally and figuratively. Here she is, entering Tom's newly electrified house. "I stopped, leaning against the banister to look. To gawk. I had never been in a house lit by electricity. The change was -- miraculous. I'd heard that in cities like New York and Chicago, the rich had been showing off their wealth by installing steam generators and electrifying their homes for the sake of novelty. But here in Buffalo, the old families had no need for novelty, and the nouveaux riches emulated the old. Compared to this, the other homes I visited were shadowy and claustrophobic. Here the air itself seemed clear, vibrant and somehow invigorating. All at once I knew why: Gaslight consumed the oxygen in a room; electricity did not."
But the hypocrisy of a society where wealth matters more than justice threatens to darken Louisa's life. Symbolic is the conduct of Grover Cleveland, who, when he was a rising politician in the city, Louisa reminds us, carried on an affair with a widowed shop girl, Maria Halpin. As Louisa relates it, Cleveland acknowledged the resulting illegitimate son, but "refused to consider marriage to Mrs. Halpin, who was known to have bestowed her favors on other well-to-do men of the community."
Louisa continues: "To console herself, she'd begun drinking, and Cleveland arranged to have his son taken from her by force and adopted by an established local family. When Mrs. Halpin refused to accept this separation, Cleveland had her committed to an insane asylum, where she remained until she saw 'reason.' " The story caused a "national trauma" when it came out during Cleveland's 1884 Presidential campaign, Louisa concludes. But Cleveland was elected for two terms nonetheless, and Buffalo society eventually forgave him and welcomed his return.
Whether we've progressed from those times remains highly debatable. But in her powerfully atmospheric book Ms. Belfer makes them seem real and very far away, and at the same time eerily familiar and relevant to the present.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laurn Belfer (Marion Ettlinger/Dial Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CITY OF LIGHT (BOOK)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (66%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (84%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (76%); LITERATURE (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RELIGION (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (60%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; BELFER, LAUREN LOUISA BARRETT (94%); LAUREN BELFER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



55 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Copier-War Casualty Is Back on Its Feet

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Danka Business Systems plans to report financial results this week for the first quarter of its new fiscal year, and revenue will probably be way down, debt high and profit minimal, at best.
But for several weeks now, Danka's top brass have beamed as they anticipated showing those numbers to the world. Who can blame them? Scarcely six months ago, no one was certain that Danka, which is incorporated in Britain but run out of St. Petersburg, Fla., would survive at all. 
 "We are not declaring premature victory," said Larry K. Switzer, Danka's chief executive. "But we got our hands around the business."
Any immersion in black ink is a triumph for Danka, the second-largest distributor of copiers, which posted sales of $3.35 billion last year.
Ever since last fall, when Danka's board changed the company's management, plucking Mr. Switzer from Fruit of the Loom and selecting Brian L. Merriman from Toshiba as president, the two men have been cutting, chopping, negotiating and otherwise wrenching Danka back from the brink of bankruptcy.
They talked the company's banks, which were poised to call in loans, into extending more credit. They persuaded the Eastman Kodak Company to let them wriggle out of a contract that forced Danka to buy copiers it could not sell. They got the Xerox Corporation to buy back a lackluster business for servicing older, scattered Xerox machines.
And they squeezed $108 million out of yearly costs. Danka used to have 48 warehouses; it now has 3. It had 45 billing centers; 5 now suffice. The new team sharply cut prices to move older inventory. It eliminated 1,400 jobs, reducing the work force to 17,000, and integrated data systems. It sold Danka's facsimile business, closed its wholesale business and cut out "a ton of superfluous marketing programs," Mr. Merriman said.
Now, they are phasing out products from all but three vendors: Canon, Toshiba and Heidelberger Druckmaschinen A.G. The German company bought Kodak's copier business in March, giving it ownership of the Digisource 9110, the only copier fast enough to rival Xerox's Docutech line.
Danka's operating expenses are still high, as are the double-digit interest rates it is paying on its $1.1 billion debt. A deal to sell its international operations to Schroder Ventures, a British holding company, fell through in June, depriving Danka of cash it needs to service debt. Its sales remain sluggish. And competition keeps getting fiercer as more companies introduce digital copiers.
"We may see more pricing pressures on everyone in the next 12 to 18 months," warned Jack L. Kelly, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs.
Still, Danka no longer seems headed for extinction. "We've seen the last really horrendous quarter," said B. Alexander Henderson, an analyst with Prudential Securities Research.
Investors are coming around. Danka's American depository receipts closed on Friday at $11.21875, nowhere near the $51 they traded at two years ago, but well above the $1.75 they had sunk to in October. "I bought this stock at $4, and I expect to make a lot of money on it," said Frank G. Cannata, who edits a copier-industry newsletter and who said he expects Danka A.D.R.'s to top $15 in a year. "They've made progress in every critical area."
To fully understand the magnitude of Danka's turnaround, one has to first understand the depths to which the company had sunk.
Danka, which was formed in 1977, immediately began gobbling up other dealers. It, in turn, was purchased by a British holding company in 1986, and Danka's shares began trading in London that year. The A.D.R.'s began trading on Nasdaq in 1992. By last year Danka was an international giant, handling more than 40 copiers from six manufacturers, each with hefty costs for training and spare-parts inventories.
But few Danka dealers carried the entire product line. If a large customer wanted to install one type of equipment in all its branches, Danka could not guarantee service at every location. That problem became critical as more companies moved to digital copiers that could link throughout their networks.
Woes intensified in 1996, when Danka bought Kodak's copier sales operation for $558 million. Danka never consolidated facilities or data systems and was left with huge overhead costs and slow data flows. Culture clashes caused many of the best sales representatives to jump ship.
"Danka's sales force was a street-fighting machine, while Kodak's people were genteel, slow-moving, paternal," said Mr. Henderson of Prudential. "Frustrations were surfacing even as Xerox was introducing its first digital products in 1997."
Mr. Merriman ruefully agreed. "The difference in sense of urgency was night and day," he said.
Inevitably, sales plummeted. That was no problem for Kodak, since Danka had agreed to buy products whether they sold or not. But the growing gap between what it bought and what it sold pushed Danka to the point of insolvency.
In desperation, Mr. Switzer and Mr. Merriman reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission that Danka might file for bankruptcy. "We had to shock Kodak and the banks into realizing how serious our situation was," Mr. Switzer said. The move worked: in December, Kodak let Danka out of its contract.
Danka has since been helped by fortuitous timing. Both Canon and Toshiba came out with full lines of digital copiers, helping Danka flesh out its scrawny digital product line.
And Danka negotiated a deal with Heidelberger for distributing the Digisource that does not involve high fixed prices or promises to take Heidelberger's entire output. While the distribution contract is not exclusive, Danka's participation in Digisource's development -- and its relationships with Kodak's customers -- gives it a head start in selling and servicing the machine.
"We've even had other potential distributors of the device ask us if we would service the machines for their accounts," Mr. Merriman said.
Still, Danka's path to growth remains obstacle-strewn. Since it has stopped servicing Xerox's older machines, it has lost an invaluable foot in the door to some clients of Xerox, which uses neither Danka nor the country's largest distributor, Ikon Office Solutions. Meanwhile, I.B.M. has announced its own high-speed copier. And many of the Kodak salespeople who left Danka have customer relationships they can build on for rival distributors.
Mr. Merriman has been reorganizing Danka's sales force, putting former Kodak people in charge of many major accounts and leaving most of the aggressive selling to the Danka sales force. Still, several analysts say that sales is Danka's weak link.
"I'm not sure that Danka has the experienced personnel to sell high-speed digital devices," said Edward Lee, a senior analyst at Lyra Research.
Indeed, Danka's revival has not prompted its competitors or suppliers to shift strategies.
"We're targeting more than 200 resellers for our products, and no change in Danka's prospects will have an impact on our marketing plans," said a spokesman for the Hewlett-Packard Company, which is pushing a line of hybrid printer-copiers called mopiers, that it had once planned to distribute through Danka.
And Canon is trying to bring its direct sales up to 45 percent of total revenue from 35 percent now. The company also stopped granting any independent distributors exclusive territories. That can help Danka sell equipment and service packages to large customers -- but it can help Ikon do so as well.
"Danka has a lot of potential to grow with us, but Ikon is still a bigger channel for us," said Tod D. Pike, senior vice president for Canon USA's imaging systems group.
Ikon also spent much of this year paring vendors and shoring up a sagging bottom line, and it has said it will concentrate on pumping up sales of a few big vendors -- including Canon -- when its 2000 fiscal year starts in October.
"Narrowing down vendors is a smart move for anyone," said Dennis Le Strange, senior vice president for Ikon North America, "but we remain focused on our own plans."
Indeed, many of Danka's competitors hope the company makes it. They see a revived Danka as an ally in the battle to prevent Xerox, which declined to comment for this article, from getting the same hammerlock on the digital copier market that it has enjoyed in analog copiers.
"I'll root for any company that can persuade customers to buy from someone other than the big X," said Jim Ivy, chief executive of the Savin Corporation, a copier manufacturer owned by Ricoh. "If Danka grows, it'll be more effective in competing with Xerox, and anyone who hurts Xerox is good in my books."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian L. Merriman, the president of Danka Business Systems, has helped guide the company through a severe retrenching, including the closing of warehouses and eliminating "a ton of superfluous marketing programs." (Bobby Sanchez for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Paper Jam"
Though sales at Danka Business Systems have grown, profitability has eroded and its stock price has suffered.
 
Graph tracks Danka Business Systems' sales since 1992.
 
Graph tracks Danka Business Systems' profitability, income as a percentage of shares, since 1992.
 
Graph tracks Danka Business Systems' stock price, daily closes, since 1997.
(Sources: Hoover's, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (83%); HDD (FRA) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%); TOS (LSE) (56%); 6502 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423420 OFFICE EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); SIC5044 OFFICE EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (56%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (56%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (72%); UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DANKA BUSINESS SYSTEMS PLC DANKA BUSINESS SYSTEMS PLC (92%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (83%); XEROX CORP (83%); HEIDELBERGER DRUCKMASCHINEN AG (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (56%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (56%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%); TOSHIBA CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANKA BUSINESS SYSTEMS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (72%); UNITED STATES (57%); FLORIDA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COPYING MACHINES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) LAYOFFS (90%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHOTOCOPIERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (74%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; SWITZER, LARRY K BRIAN L MERRIMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



56 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: A Showdown On Messaging May Unite Web Users

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
For more than a week, the Microsoft Corporation and America Online Inc. have engaged in a public spat over open access to the instant-message systems that have become increasingly popular on the Internet.
Despite their rhetoric, though, neither company has much of a track record for making it easy for competitors to gain access to the markets that America Online and Microsoft hold dear. 
 Microsoft, of course, stands accused by the Justice Department of unfairly using its control of the Windows operating system to stifle the market for Internet browser software from Netscape Communications -- a company that America Online now owns. And much of the appeal of America Online's service lies in its offering both content and features, like instant messages, that are not available to other Internet users.
The current showdown between the two companies concerns America Online's refusal to let Microsoft, among others, link its on-line users to America Online's instant-messaging system -- a form of electronic mail that lets two people conduct a real-time conversation.
Jealously as each may guard its own advantages, both Microsoft and America Online are quick to call for openness in any market in which they are behind.
Thus, America Online has initiated a vast lobbying campaign calling for open access to offer Internet service through cable television systems, largely because it has been shut out by the AT&T Corporation and other operators.
And it is no accident that Microsoft is taking the lead in talking about open standards in instant messaging, a service in which America Online has 80 million users. Until very recently Microsoft had no instant-messaging subscribers on its MSN on-line service.
Unlike E-mail, which can be exchanged by all Internet users regardless of the service they subscribe to, instant-message systems so far have been proprietary. Thus, users of Microsoft's new instant message system can communicate only with each other and not with the far larger number of instant messengers on America Online's networks.
But Microsoft has found a backdoor to America Online's main instant-message system, setting off a heated debate that embroiled much of the Internet industry last week.
And during the last two weeks, the two companies have played at least six rounds of hide and seek, as America Online blocked access to Microsoft, and Microsoft quickly found another way in.
By last Friday, many observers were fed up with both sides.
"It is unseemly for Microsoft to hijack their way into AOL's system," said Eric Schmitt, an analyst with Forrester Research. "But America Online should open the thing up."
The history, culture and underlying technology of the Internet has pressed most proprietary systems to give way to open technical standards. And America Online acknowledges that it cannot fight these forces forever.
"AOL realizes in the end this will all be open," said Paul W. Noglows, an analyst with the investment firm Hambrecht & Quist. "They just want to control how it becomes open."
America Online's reluctance to embrace an open standard is certainly understandable, considering how much its instant-message system -- and the related "buddy list" technology that lets friends quickly determine if each other is on line -- have contributed to its rise as the most powerful company on the Internet.
"It's an important reason you pay your $21.95 for AOL each month," Mr. Noglows said.
But even three years ago, America Online acknowledged that it could not keep instant messages limited to its proprietary on-line service. So the company introduced AOL Instant Messenger, a program that anyone with an Internet account could download and use free to send instant messages to both America Online members and any other AOL Instant Messenger user.
Instant Messenger enables America Online subscribers who use instant messages at home to also use them at work, even if their office computers do not use the America Online subscription service. But the product also allows people to drop the American Online subscription service entirely and still keep chatting with their friends.
Despite the dropouts, America Online can theoretically still make money from Instant Messenger users, because the software has space for advertisements. But since people rarely click on those ads, the revenue is slim. Still, the company believes it will ultimately find ways to make money from a program that millions of people use for hours at a time.
America Online was so enamored with instant messages that last year it bought Mirabilis, an Israeli company that makes ICQ, the second most popular instant-message system. ICQ is the classic Web business: it has grown purely by word of mouth to an audience of some 38 million users, but it still has no visible source of revenue.
So far, America Online has not linked the two instant-message systems, largely because the hip, college-age ICQ audience does not care to associate with American Online users, who are mainly high-school students and their parents.
Moreover, America Online has been wary of doing anything that would open up instant-message systems too quickly.
Now that other companies -- not only Microsoft, but even more notably, Yahoo Inc. -- have created their own instant-message systems, there has been increasing demand to link all the systems together. In fact, an industry task force has been formed to develop a standard for such interconnection.
America Online has long said that it would support such a standard, once it was developed. But it has done nothing to hasten the development of a consensus -- though, in hindsight, the company planted the seeds for its current crisis.
First, America Online did nothing to prevent anyone from mimicking its software, as Microsoft has. Microsoft's own message program, by contrast, encrypts messages, so that no one can create backdoor links its system, as it has done to America Online's.
America Online also published on its own Web page a method that people could use to write their own programs to exchange instant messages with users of the Instant Messenger system and to see which of their America Online buddies were on line.
The company now says that this recipe was meant only for computer hobbyists and users of the Unix operating system. But on the Web page, America Online did not note any restrictions on the use of the system. And so several companies, including Yahoo and Prodigy Communications, used the information to create instant-message programs that linked to America Online's system.
The systems from Yahoo, Prodigy and Microsoft came to light the week before last, and America Online blocked them all -- attracting the glare of publicity. Suddenly, the company's go-slow strategy no longer seemed feasible.
America Online's well-oiled crisis-handling machine, led by the public-relations firm Robinson, Lerer & Montgomery, declared that the company would put the development of an instant-messaging standard "on a fast track."
The company promised to work actively with the existing industry task force, and it convened its own parallel committee of top industry executives to help shape an instant-messaging standard.
These moves, though, did little to appease Microsoft and the other companies. American Online's parallel committee, for example, represents companies like Sun Microsystems, Apple Computer and Real Networks, that are more notable for their longstanding grudges against Microsoft than their involvement in instant messaging.
A group of eight other companies, led by Microsoft and Prodigy, wrote a letter to America Online's chairman, Stephen M. Case, arguing that the best thing he could do to further instant-message standards was to stop blocking their programs.
"People are looking for a real gesture from AOL," said Brad Chase, one of the executives in charge of Microsoft's consumer and Internet division. "They should stop blocking users now."
Microsoft and Prodigy say they will convene their own group to forge a standard at a meeting in New York in September.
With all the attention, an industrywide instant-messaging format is likely to be developed this year. And unless there is significant disagreement about how the standard operates, all the major players -- including America Online -- have now committed to linking their systems to it.
That should mean, ultimately, that people will choose their instant message systems as they do E-mail programs: on the basis of marketing, distribution and product features.
Less clear is what will happen until a standard is adopted. Last week, America Online made overtures to several companies, including Prodigy, to begin discussions about linking to their message systems.
But with all the bad blood, such deals may be hard to negotiate now, especially with Microsoft still intent on cracking America Online's system.
Yet, however extreme Microsoft's approach -- and however unlikely an advocate of open systems the company may be -- the walls that divided instant-message users are tumbling down.
"Microsoft's tactic worked," Mr. Schmitt said. "It was the fastest way to get AOL to move toward standards."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: America Online's AOL Instant Messenger had several backdoors that allowed competitors such as Microsoft and Yahoo to sneak in their own users. An industry task force has been formed to develop an open standard. (pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); AOL (NYSE) (95%); T (NYSE) (93%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICA ONLINE INC MICROSOFT CORP (96%); AOL INC (95%); AT&T INC (93%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICA ONLINE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS INTERNET & WWW (92%); INSTANT MESSAGING (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); INTERNET BROWSERS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); LOBBYING (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



57 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: Heavyweight Foundation Throws Itself Behind Idea of a Cultural Policy

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
The Pew Charitable Trusts, the $4.7 billion foundation that put its weight behind causes like global warming, civic journalism and campaign finance reform when they were first emerging, has a new crusade: shaping a national cultural policy.
Over the next five years, the Pew plans to devote about 40 percent of its culture budget, some $50 million, toward getting policymakers to focus on issues like arts financing, intellectual property rights, zoning in historic areas and an arts curriculum for public schools. The effort will involve academic research, opinion polls and more media coverage, among other things. 
 "The next Presidential election should be the last one in which the parties are without a cultural policy plank in their platforms," said Stephen K. Urice, the Pew official who will direct the initiative. "But first they need to have smart academics, think tanks and data focusing on this, and that's where we're headed."
He added, "We're talking about developing an infrastructure for understanding the role of culture in America."
Some of the scholarly work the Pew intends to sponsor would try to establish the long-held but unproven belief in the arts world that cultural programs are valuable intrinsically and not simply as leisure activities, as many Americans see them, or as economic engines, a more recent view.
The Pew also plans to create an information center within a year, perhaps in Washington, to collect and publish data, conduct polls and organize conferences. It also plans to start a communications effort to support more media coverage of the arts, particularly on television. And it intends to work with orchestras, theaters, museums and other arts institutions to develop ways to measure their value to society.
"This is really about strengthening the arts organizations of this country," said Marion A. Godfrey, the director of the Pew's culture programs, which include the new initiative.
A few other foundations and universities have also started thinking about cultural policy, though on a smaller scale, and many in the arts world think it is time to grapple with other issues, like Federal funding for the arts and humanities. Mr. Urice said it was "overstating the case just a bit to say that this is like the period following the publication of 'Silent Spring,' " the 1962 book by Rachel Carson that galvanized the environmental movement.
Arts and culture, which make up between 3 percent and 6 percent of the gross domestic product and which, including everything from dance group tours to movie distribution, are the nation's second largest export after technology, also suffer from official indifference.
With few exceptions, the policymakers who venture into nearly every other corner of American life all but ignore culture. So do Federal officials. Although the Government knows, for example, that Americans spend $5.1 billion on television repair, make 504 billion local phone calls, eat on average 4.4 pounds of canned fish a year and have 12,400 compatriots who produce leather goods at an average wage of $10.98 an hour, it has no idea how many people attend dance performances, what violinists earn or how many art museums or community theaters exist across the nation.
As the program's first grant, the Pew has commissioned an 18-month study by the Rand Corporation that will map the locales, types and budgets, among other things, of the 18,000 nonprofit cultural institutions that file annually with the Internal Revenue Service. Later, the Pew hopes to expand this databank to include other cultural outlets, from unincorporated storefront community arts centers to giant entertainment corporations.
Whether the United States wants or needs an arts policy is a matter of debate, even among people in the arts. The director of one large museum physically retreated from a conversation at the mere mention of the words "cultural policy," Mr. Urice recalled.
"The term jars people," he said. "They think you are talking about centralized authority or regulation" -- not, as the Pew is suggesting as possibilities, discussions about grants to individual artists, about mandatory arts curriculum in schools or about laws that would prohibit the export of items that are considered part of the national heritage.
Some fear that foundations would divert their money to the study of culture, rather than to cultural programs themselves. And some believe that anything that has an influence on creative activity is un-American.
On the other side, there are people like Glenn D. Lowry, the director of the Museum of Modern Art. In a new book called "250 Ways to Make America Better" published by George magazine, he makes the case for a national cultural policy. The United States, he writes, "must recognize that the arts are not just important to our society but a national responsibility, just as education, science, health and the environment are national responsibilities."
That view is gaining currency.
"Some time ago, a handful of us realized that there wasn't a solid research basis for advocacy," said James Allen Smith, a historian and the former executive director of the Howard Gilman Foundation. So in 1994, the Gilman, along with the Pew and the Ford Foundation banded together to form the Center for Arts and Culture in Washington, a policy center working to define the issues, themes and actions that affect the cultural sector.
Princeton, Northeastern, Harvard and a few other universities also are looking at cultural policy questions, as are scholars at other universities. Several nonprofit organizations, like the Rockefeller Foundation, are exploring cultural policy, too.
But the Pew, the Philadelphia-based behemoth started by the heirs of Sun Oil Company's founders, is taking the most comprehensive approach. "No foundation has gone as far as the Pew in starting a long-term strategic program," said Mr. Smith, now board president of the Center for Arts and Culture.
The Pew, which last year spent $213 million on educational, environmental, health and social policy and cultural and religious issues, has so far shared its plans with only a few likely supporters.
"They'll ask what are the right questions, what is the right information we need to gather," said Joan Shigekawa, an associate director of the Rockefeller Foundation's arts and humanities program. "It's really about preserving and enabling American creativity."
In one sense, the Pew's initiative is fallout from the culture wars that flared in the late 1980's, when conservatives began attacking the National Endowment for the Arts for financing artists whose work dealt with sexuality and other provocative themes. The endowment survived repeated attempts to kill it, but its annual budget, now $98 million, has been cut nearly in half from its peak.
At the Pew, Ms. Godfrey was disturbed not just by the attack but by the lack of an articulate rebuttal. "I've watched the arts community really struggle in its ability to make the case for itself," she said. "That was the backdrop I was stewing about."
Ms. Godfrey, who is the initiative's main proponent, said she hoped that a case for more Government money for the arts can be made with data the Pew will collect.
But Pew officials dispute any notion that the initiative is really just about getting more money for the endowment. "People saying that will miss the point," said Mr. Urice. "It may be we discover the arts simply need reliable, more consistent support or consolidation in some areas where there is oversupply. I wouldn't say more money is the solution; smarter money may be the answer instead. And there are many other forms of support -- political support, for example."
Still, the fragile financial health of cultural institutions is a matter of concern. While many arts institutions, including museums and opera companies, are thriving, others, including many symphony orchestras and dance companies, are not. Many are "drastically undercapitalized," Ms. Godfrey said.
Even those arts groups that are doing well are highly dependent on individual and corporate donations, which in turn rest on the continued strength of the stock market, now in its ninth bull year.
Part of the problem stems from the way Americans view culture. "I don't think the arts are seen as integral to human existence," Ms. Godfrey said.
The few participation studies that exist -- some are 10 years old or more -- seem to indicate that hard-core arts lovers comprise 10 to 12 percent of the population, but also that a large majority of people visit a museum, attend the theater or otherwise participate in the arts at least once a year. (One new, unpublished study of Philadelphians, financed by the Pew and the Heinz Endowment, found that 90 percent of those surveyed did so, and that 74 percent engaged in an arts activity three or more times a year.)
"The question is how to take participation and raise that to a level of concern," Mr. Urice said.
In the effort's early stages, however, the Pew has set its sights on a smaller target. "The primary audience of our initiative is really the arts community, policymakers and the media, to help people who think about the arts think about them in a more informed way," Ms. Godfrey said. "A big part of our effort will be the media part."
Already the financial sponsor of the National Arts Journalism Program at the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University, the Pew will look into supporting or creating a national arts news program in broadcasting. And it expects the results of its research and its polls, with precise subjects yet to be determined, to make news.
The Pew's goals with arts institutions may be the most difficult to accomplish: it wants to try to measure intangible results as an indicator of their value.
Arts groups usually depend on two other indicators of that, attendance and economic-benefits studies. But many people think those are at best mistaken and at worst traps: wrong-headed because neither is why arts institutions exist, dangerous because both could easily drop.
Instead, Ms. Godfrey said the foundation would center on documenting other benefits. For example, she said, "research shows that arts in schools help kids develop their thinking and learning skills, there is anecdotal evidence about the role of arts in community revitalization, and there is the impact of arts on individuals, the stories of how one person's life is changed."
Taken together, outsiders said, the Pew's plan could help frame a long-needed debate. "Their plan is very smartly put together," said Mr. Smith, the historian. "The question I have is whether they can make it as long a commitment as it needs. Will it disappear after five years? Will the board understand it? Will it draw in other foundations?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PEW CHARITABLE TRUSTS; RAND CORP RAND CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEW CHARITABLE TRUSTS; RAND CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION) FOUNDATIONS (92%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FILM (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); DANCE (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (50%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H STEPHEN K URICE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



58 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Reagan Redux

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT; William Safire is on vacation.

 BODY:
Here we go again.
Back in 1980 Ronald Reagan assured one and all that he could cut taxes sharply, increase defense spending substantially and balance the Federal budget. 
 If it had been a television commercial instead of real life we would have seen a close-up of Mr. Reagan happily saying, "I can do that," followed by a shot of him, perplexed, asking, "How am I gonna do that?"
George Herbert Walker Bush famously derided Mr. Reagan's supply-side fantasies as "voodoo economics." And the veteran Washington Post reporter Lou Cannon, in his book "President Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime," described the reaction of James Baker, Mr. Reagan's own chief of staff, to the transformation of economic fantasy into national policy. He wrote:
"Though not particularly well-versed in economics, Baker suspected that there was something screwy about the idea that massive tax cuts would increase government revenues. Later, he would privately express regrets that the deficits had 'gotten away' from the administration and wished he had paid more attention to the consequences of the tax cuts."
It has taken many painful years to overcome the worst of those consequences, with the bulk of the burden being borne as usual by ordinary working Americans. But for the Republicans in Congress it's as if those painful years never happened. Now, with the budget finally balanced and the first sightings of an emerging surplus, they think it's once again party time. And so the Republicans in both the House and the Senate celebrated by passing tax cuts totaling nearly $800 billion over 10 years -- tax cuts that overwhelmingly favor the very wealthy.
This is economic lunacy. If you put aside the Social Security surplus, which is already spoken for, the available budget surplus over the next 10 years is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office to be just shy of $1 trillion. But that estimate is based on the assumption that appropriations for such "discretionary" items as the national defense, education, housing, air traffic control, etc., will remain within the utterly unrealistic budget caps passed by Congress in 1997. That will not happen. We can be absolutely sure of this because the caps have already been blown.
Congress has been resorting to clownish gimmickry, like calling the census an emergency, in order to evade the spending limits imposed by the caps. And even as some routine items are being called emergencies for budget purposes, the budget office's 10-year forecast (on which the estimate of the trillion-dollar surplus is based) does not take into account spending for real emergencies.
As the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has pointed out, "Hurricanes, tornados, floods and international emergencies will not magically disappear" over the next decade.
What really takes the proposed tax cuts into the zone of total lunacy is that both Congress and the Clinton Administration are planning for more -- not less -- in the way of discretionary spending, including substantially increased expenditures for defense.
There is no trillion-dollar surplus.
The executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Robert Greenstein, said two very conservative assumptions should be made when considering the tax cut -- that overall nonemergency spending will at the very least remain at current levels, adjusted for inflation, and that emergency spending will continue at the average rate of the past several years, which is about $8 billion a year.
If you make those assumptions, he said, the estimated surplus over the next 10 years shrinks from about $1 trillion to a little over $100 billion.
Said Mr. Greenstein: "How can you fit a $792 billion tax cut into a surplus that's only in the $100 billion to $200 billion range? The answer is, you can't."
President Clinton says he will veto the tax cuts, which is a good thing for working people, whether they are Democrats or Republicans. If the Republicans in Congress were to get their way the entire non-Social Security surplus would vanish and the United States would be back on the insidious slide toward Reagan-style budget deficits. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



59 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Pushes To Reconcile Tax-Cut Bills

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1

 BODY:
Democrats raised stiff opposition today to a proposed $792 billion Republican tax-cut package, but the Republicans reaffirmed their determination to press on in an effort to reconcile the House and Senate versions of the bill and gain final passage of the measure.
Moderates in both parties held out hope for an autumn compromise that would give Americans a tax cut over the next decade and preserve needed Federal programs, but one moderate, Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, said there was a good chance that neither side would get what it wanted. 
 "I think it's a shame," Mr. Chafee said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."
Republican leaders in both houses have given their deputies until the end of the week, when Congress will depart for its August vacation, to settle differences between the House and Senate bills. The measures both total $792 billion in cuts over 10 years, but differ in details.
The House offered an across-the-board 10 percent tax cut, while the Senate would lower the 15 percent tax bracket to 14 percent and, beginning in 2006, would gradually shift some income now taxed at 28 percent into the lower bracket.
President Clinton has threatened to veto the bill, which will not be sent to him until September.
The White House and most Democrats said the tax cuts would eat up $1 trillion in non-Social Security surpluses projected for the next decade, taking away money needed for changing Medicare, improving education and reducing the national debt of more the $5 trillion.
The White House said today that it would oppose any tax cut of more than $300 billion and would prefer not to cut taxes at all.
"It would be better to do nothing and pay down $100 billion of our national debt than to sign a large and irresponsible tax cut that would signal to the world that the era of fiscal discipline in the United States is over," Gene Sperling, chairman of the National Economic Council, said on "Meet the Press."
But Republicans responded that it would be better to return the surplus to taxpayers than to keep it in Washington where it would be spent.
"We view this as an opportunity to pare back the size of the Government, to give taxpayers some of their own money back," Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said on NBC.
Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, who appeared on the ABC News program "This Week" and "Fox News Sunday," said, "Only here in Washington could we not figure out what to do with $1 trillion in surplus."
Mr. Breaux, who led an unsuccessful effort to push a $500 billion compromise, said the White House and Congress should negotiate a deal that would include both tax cuts and changes in Medicare. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (57%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); VETO (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



60 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
League Has Cases Wrong, 2 Umps Say

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Drew Coble is one of nine umpires whose resignations Gene Budig, the American League president, accepted last week. The only problem is Coble said he never resigned.
Budig also accepted Greg Kosc's resignation, but Kosc said he had rescinded his resignation in the same period when other umpires withdrew their resignations and saved their jobs. 
 Coble, a crew chief in his 18th year with the league, was notified in a letter from Budig dated July 26 that he had received on July 15 a letter of resignation from Coble dated July 14.
"I deeply regret," Budig wrote, "that you decided to take part in this concerted resignation plan instigated by the Major League Umpires Association. However, you have left me with no choice but to accept your resignation and to fill the vacancy that your resignation has created along with the other vacancies that were created by this mass resignation strategy."
But Coble said yesterday that he did not sign a resignation letter dated July 14 and that he did not attend the meeting in Philadelphia that day at which more than 50 umpires did sign such letters. Coble said he was at home in Graham, N.C., with his wife. "Kim had chemotherapy that day in the hospital," Coble said by telephone from his home.
Coble said he was so involved with his wife's illness that he was not even aware of the umpires' action until a few days later.
He said he laughed when he received Budig's letter, but his unemployment, scheduled to begin Sept. 2, the date of resignation in the umpires' letters, is no laughing matter.
"It was tough for them to accept a resignation they never got," he said. "The letter said my letter was dated July 14. I didn't even know what went down until the 17th of July."
Once he did learn of the step his colleagues had taken to try to induce baseball officials to begin negotiations for a new labor agreement, Coble said, he decided to join them. "I signed a letter July 22 and sent it to Richie," he said, referring to Richie Phillips, the umpires' lawyer and labor leader. "To my knowledge, Richie never sent it to the league office."
Phillips would not confirm that Coble had sent him a letter of resignation, but whatever it was, Phillips added, "I did not forward to the league office."
Phillips, however, issued a news release July 22 saying that Coble and Ted Hendry of the American League and Greg Bonin of the National had advised the leagues that they were resigning. But both Hendry and Bonin have kept their jobs, ostensibly because the league offices never received their letters.
Coble said he had heard from no one in the American League office. "They haven't even called to ask how my wife is," said the 51-year-old umpire, who has not worked since July 3. Asked if he has thought about calling the league, he said, "I've been tempted to call Budig, but I'm sure he doesn't have any answers for me, so I've resisted the urge."
Budig was not at home yesterday, and Phyllis Merhige, the league's senior vice president, said the league would have no comment.
Kosc's circumstance is different. He resigned, rescinded his resignation and then rescinded his rescission. But like Coble's letter, Phillips said, Kosc's letter reinstating his resignation was never sent to the league even though he, too, was part of the union's July 22 news release.
Kosc, in his 24th year with the league, was en route home after umpiring a game in Cleveland yesterday and could not be reached. But Phillips said Kosc revoked his resignation, just as eight other umpires did, before the league hired 12 new umpires. Even if he did change his mind, Phillips said: "They don't have anything from him. They went by newspaper accounts apparently."
When lawyers had conference calls last Tuesday about the Federal lawsuit the union filed against the leagues, Phillips said, he raised the Coble-Kosc issue with Judge Edmund Ludwig of United States District Court in Philadelphia.
"The court made serious inquiry into the Coble and Kosc situations," and the leagues had no response, Phillips said.
Coble related one more element of his case. He said he had received calls two days apart from two A.L. umpires who are considered the leaders of the non-resigning faction.
"John Hirschbeck called and said his group was going with baseball and if I went with them, I'd be 'taken care of,' " Coble said. "Then Joe Brinkman called and said he talked to higher-ups and explained what was going on." He meant with his wife's medical condition. "He said they agreed to make me an exception 'if I would go over to their side,' " Coble said. "But he said I would have to do it by that night."
But that same day the league sent notices to nine umpires accepting their resignations.
"I received the letter the next day," Coble said. "They accepted a resignation that was never sent." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UMPIRES; LABOR RESIGNATIONS (92%); BASEBALL (92%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (51%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; COBLE, DREW; KOSC, GREG; BUDIG, GENE DREW COBLE (98%); RICHIE PHILLIPS (91%); GREG KOSC (90%); GENE BUDIG (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



61 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: The Ties That Link Developers and Elected Officials

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
Any developer knows that success in the real estate business takes persistence, good instincts and not a small amount of luck. Connections can help, too.
Carl Goldberg has connections. Mr. Goldberg, 48, is a principal of the Roseland Property Company in Roseland, N.J., which plans to build 1,643 housing units and 1.3 million square feet of office space on the Weehawken waterfront. 
 In March of last year, Mr. Goldberg was also named chairman of the campaign finance committee for United States Representative Robert Menendez, whose district covers most of Hudson County and parts of Essex, Middlesex and Union Counties.
And Mr. Menendez's longtime campaign treasurer, Donald Scarinci, is Mr. Goldberg's lawyer for the proposed project, known as Port Imperial South.
Three months after Mr. Goldberg was named to head the finance committee, Mr. Menendez, the fourth-ranking Democrat in the House, announced a $12 million Federal grant to help build a new ferry terminal next to Port Imperial South. The ferry, of course, will help the people who buy homes in Mr. Goldberg's project to reach jobs in Manhattan.
Who will operate the ferry terminal? New York Waterway. And the president of New York Waterway is Arthur Imperatore Jr., the son of one of Mr. Goldberg's partners in Port Imperial South, Arthur Imperatore, a longtime contributor to Mr. Menendez.
Mr. Menendez, who as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee inserted the grant into a mass-transit spending bill, said the terminal would help reduce congestion and promote economic growth in his district.
Both Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Menendez say that there is nothing wrong with their relationship, and that, in this case, Mr. Goldberg's financial interests and the interests of the district happen to overlap. Mr. Menendez said he began pursuing the grant in early 1997, and Mr. Goldberg, who has helped raise more than $1 million for the Congressman, said he has never sought any favors in return.
No one has accused either man of wrongdoing. But their relationship highlights the financial ties between elected officials and developers that some government watchdog groups say erode the public's confidence in their leaders.
"There is no question that these kinds of appearances are what make New Jersey citizens cynical about the political process," said Curtis Fisher, executive director of New Jersey Public Interest Research Group.
Developers with projects on the New Jersey waterfront who have contributed thousands of dollars in recent years to Democrats and Republicans alike include Mr. Goldberg's company, Roseland; Arcorp Properties of Weehawken, which is controlled by the senior Mr. Imperatore; the Applied Companies of Hoboken, N.J.; Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus, N.J., and the Hovnanian companies of Red Bank, N.J., which have contributed $290,000 to state-level political parties and candidates alone since 1985, according to the New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission.
Chuck Haytaian, the former State Assembly Speaker who is chairman of the Republican State Committee, said he saw nothing improper about Mr. Menendez's actions or his relationship with Mr. Goldberg.
"I just don't believe that there is a negative in this situation," Mr. Haytaian said. "Let's face it, people get involved in Congressmen's as well as Assembly people's and state senators' campaigns because they have an interest in what those folks are trying to do. Otherwise, they wouldn't get involved."
And Mr. Menendez said he and Mr. Goldberg were playing by the rules.
"If he ends up, along with everybody else, being a beneficiary of what I've been advocating," Mr. Menendez said, pausing to develop his thought, "what can I say?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Menendez, whose campaign finance chairman is also a developer. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROSELAND PROPERTY CO HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROSELAND PROPERTY CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; WEEHAWKEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); FERRIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); ELECTION LAW (71%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CARL; MENENDEZ, ROBERT (REPR); SCARINCI, DONALD; STRUNSKY, STEVE BOB MENENDEZ (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



62 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Open Vote Policy Puts Mexico Leader in Quandary

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON and JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 1

 BODY:
Shortly after taking office, President Ernesto Zedillo sought to prove his credentials as a reformer by ousting a brash young Governor-elect, Roberto Madrazo Pintado, who was accused of winning a Gulf Coast statehouse through blatant ballot fraud.
But Mr. Madrazo refused to go. Instead, he incited a virtual insurrection in his state, Tabasco, forcing the President to swallow hard and recognize Mr. Madrazo's governorship. 
 Five years later, Mr. Madrazo is seeking the governing party's presidential nomination, and his candidacy is developing into a new showdown with Mr. Zedillo. Mr. Madrazo has surged so rapidly in opinion polls that the primary campaign, which began formally today, has already effectively boiled down to a two-man contest between him and a former Interior Minister, who is Mr. Zedillo's preferred candidate. In fact, polls showed Mr. Madrazo in the lead.
Mr. Madrazo's rise has given him a fighting chance of winning the nomination and the presidency, a stunning development in a country where 10 consecutive presidents from the same governing party have hand-picked their successors.
He has urged increases in social spending, even at the expense of a balanced budget, a policy that has alarmed some international investors. That raises once again the prospect of financial turmoil during the presidential succession for a neighbor of the United States and one of its top trading partners.
Mr. Madrazo's strength has been particularly irritating to the President because the candidate's recent speeches have been piercing attacks on Mr. Zedillo's tight-money, export-oriented economic policies, which are popular in business circles but not in the streets.
"I'm in total disagreement with a policy that has brought great results for a few but few results for a great majority," Mr. Madrazo said in one fiery speech recently that drew roars of approval from a crowd of working class party members.
In March, when Mr. Zedillo renounced the tradition under which Mexican presidents have picked the candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, skeptics predicted that the President's sympathies would help the Interior Minister, Francisco Labastida Ochoa, to win the nomination easily. But Mr. Madrazo's surprising success means that Mr. Zedillo may soon have to choose whether to honor his pledge to open up the nominating process or reassert his powers to block a longtime nemesis.
"This has emerged as an all-out battle for the heart of the PRI, and what's extraordinary is that the President's candidate could be defeated," said Jesus Silva-Herzog Marquez, a law professor with family ties to the party.
The party was founded in 1929 in the ashes of the Mexican Revolution but has been dominated for two decades by Ivy League-trained economists, including Mr. Zedillo, known here as technocrats.
"Madrazo is the first governor in 60 years to defy the president, survive, and come back to claim vengeance," said Federico Estevez, a political science professor here. "This is terribly attractive to PRI members who believe the technocrats have been scooting them around with a broom, making them the brunt of whatever policies the President wants to impose."
Mr. Madrazo captured the mood in Mexico with a series of national television ads he ran starting last year while he was Governor of Tabasco, before the governing party had even set the rules for its primary.
"Who says we can't do it? Yes we can!" runs the slogan of Mr. Madrazo's ads. The jingle distills the conviction that Mexicans do not lack for determination but have been kept down by bad government.
Mr. Madrazo has also stolen the President's thunder on electoral reform, portraying himself as a maverick bent on opening up a party dominated by presidential control. His father, Carlos A. Madrazo, was an early advocate of internal party democracy. When he died in a mysterious plane crash in 1969, he earned a place in party lore as a martyr to reform. His son Roberto portrays himself as an heir to that legacy.
But it is an ambiguous stance, since Mr. Madrazo's career is clouded by charges of vote-rigging and recurrent questions about the origin of his campaign funds. After his 1994 election, federal investigators determined that he had spent $36.8 million on the campaign in his state, 10 times the legal limit, most of it recorded as anonymous cash donations.
So far, Mr. Labastida, a courtly gentleman who at 56 is nine years older than Mr. Madrazo, has preferred to hint at his rival's checkered ethical record but not to attack it head on. In a ceremony today at party headquarters kicking off the primary campaign, Mr. Labastida condemned those who accept "shameful campaign funds," an obvious swipe at Mr. Madrazo's use this year of state funds and anonymous donations to finance his television commercials that ended in May.
"I arrive at this campaign with clean hands after a life of public service that lets me hold my head high," Mr. Labastida said.
Mr. Labastida's backers are even more direct. After one recent Mexico City rally, Tabasco residents who support him crowded around a reporter, asserting that Mr. Madrazo had ruled his tropical state with a hard hand, repressing critics even within his own party.
Four politicians have been campaigning for the governing party's nomination for months. But since May, party rules have prohibited them from broadcasting television commercials. That ban ended today. The primary vote is scheduled for Nov. 7, and the presidential balloting for July 2 of next year.
A nationwide survey by the Indemerc Louis Harris polling firm last week showed Mr. Madrazo favored by 52 percent of voters polled who said they intended to cast ballots in the primary, while 42 percent favored Mr. Labastida. Other polls have had similar results. The margin of error was 2.5 percent.
Some politicians say Mr. Madrazo's lead in surveys is deceptive because under the primary rules, the winner must attract a majority of votes in the largest number of Mexico's 300 electoral districts, rather than a simple majority of all votes cast.
Mr. Labastida's support is better-distributed across the entire country. That nationwide backing reflects the almost universal belief that Mr. Labastida is President Zedillo's favorite, but the candidate denies it.
"I tell you, I don't represent the current administration," Mr. Labastida said in an interview last week. But he has not criticized Mr. Zedillo's record aggressively on any issue. "I don't think you should change things just to change them," he said.
Fueling the perception that he represents the establishment is the all-star campaign team he has assembled.
"Fix your tie," Mr. Labastida was admonished as he sat in his office, smiling into a photographer's circling lens. The fashion advice came from Alejandro Valenzuela, a senior official at Mexico's central bank, who stepped down last month to work on the Labastida campaign, joining a parade of other influential officials.
To some, Mr. Labastida seems an unlikely standard bearer because after his term as Governor of the western state of Sinaloa ended in 1992, his career declined. In the first days of the Zedillo presidency, he occupied a second-tier post, director of roads and bridges, joining the Cabinet only belatedly.
Analysts describe Mr. Labastida as a compromise candidate, the one senior official whose cordial ties to Mr. Zedillo's technocrats and to the populists whose current champion is Mr. Madrazo could prevent a rupture in the party that would probably bring defeat next year.
The threat of a split, based in the simmering resentment felt by grass-roots party members, has been clear since the conflict that followed Mr. Madrazo's election as Governor in November 1994.
A leftist opposition party accused Mr. Madrazo of vote counting fraud, paralyzing Tabasco with protests, and an independent investigation ordered by Mr. Zedillo confirmed their charges. Mr. Zedillo responded by boycotting Mr. Madrazo's inauguration and by pressing him to step down. Instead, Mr. Madrazo's supporters took to the streets, beating leftist protesters and threatening to declare Tabasco an independent territory if Mr. Madrazo's governorship were not recognized.
Mr. Zedillo, distracted by an economic crisis, backed down, ending the pressure on Mr. Madrazo and later traveling to Tabasco to embrace him publicly. By dint of tenacious legal maneuvers, the Governor avoided sanctions for fraud or for spending 10 times the legal campaign spending limit. Many of his mysterious donors have never been identified.
But he acknowledges ties to some of the party's most autocratic, even tainted leaders. Last week he defended Mario Villanueva Madrid, a former Governor who is a fugitive wanted on drug charges. And in an interview, Mr. Madrazo described as a "great privilege" his 30-year friendship with Carlos Hank Gonzalez, who became a multimillionaire while serving as Mayor of Mexico City and in other posts.
Mr. Madrazo insisted that his donors are middle class and poor Mexicans, but he is barnstorming Mexico in a Lear jet.
His television campaign began in July 1998, and it ran on prime time the for next nine months. The ads, which he contends were intended only to promote his programs in Tabasco, were financed by Tabasco's legislature, which is controlled by his party. Mr. Madrazo said they cost $6.2 million, all from public funds, but critics have offered far higher estimates.
The ads made his face and slogan an instant national phenomenon. In a strange twist, the slogan was written by Carlos Alazraki, an advertising consultant who devised Mr. Zedillo's own 1994 television campaign.
As Mr. Madrazo paraded down cobblestone streets in the state of Queretaro last week, followers opened their doors to greet him shouting, "Yes we can!"
Mr. Madrazo, who is trim at 47, managed to look at once casual and well-groomed in a leather jacket and starched shirt as he addressed a welcoming crowd of townspeople.
"You need a policy that puts people, not economics, first!" he said, following up with promises of new subsidies for Mexicans who resent United States competition under the North American Free Trade Agreement. He has pledged to conduct a review of the treaty.
He slams Mr. Zedillo's policies, but not the President himself. Half praising Mr. Zedillo and half defying him to keep his word, he said, "I really don't believe the President has a favorite candidate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roberto Madrazo Pintado campaigning in the tiny village of Puerto de Marquez for the presidential nomination of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party. He leads in polls and is a rival of President Ernesto Zedillo, who has pledged to be the first incumbent not to choose a successor but favors the Interior Minister, Francisco Labastida Ochoa, shown in his campaign headquarters. (Photographs by Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Mexico highlighting Tabasco: From Tabasco State comes a headache for Mexico's President.(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; PRESTON, JULIA; MADRAZO PINTADO, ROBERTO (GOV); ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES); LABASTIDA OCHOA, FRANCISCO (MIN) ROBERTO MADRAZO PINTADO (96%); ERNESTO ZEDILLO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



63 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2716 words

HEADLINE: THE OTHER SKYLINE -- A special report.;
Robust Economy Feeds Builders' Frenzy to Transform New Jersey Riverfront

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
Of all the real estate debacles and broken dreams of the recession a decade ago, few were more spectacular than the collapse of Port Liberte. Starry-eyed developers envisioned it as a kind of Venice-on-the-Hudson, with a network of canals dredged out of a dilapidated waterfront and high-priced European style town houses offering views of the Statue of Liberty and the Manhattan skyline.
But only a tiny portion of the $750 million project -- a few apartments and only one canal -- was ever built here, and Port Liberte earned its spot in history as the largest real estate bankruptcy east of the Mississippi. 
 From that disaster, though, Joseph Barry anticipates making a fortune.
In 1994, Mr. Barry, a former antipoverty lawyer, bought the carcass for a pittance, completed the existing apartments and waited out the recession. Now he is building 134 more condominiums and an 18-hole golf course. And he is hardly by himself.
In a real estate boom taking place up and down New Jersey's industrial coast, developers are building as fast as they can, and reshaping the skyline from Bayonne to the George Washington Bridge.
Samuel J. and Richard LeFrak are building two apartment towers, two office buildings and a hotel on their 600-acre Newport complex in Jersey City. Ara Hovnanian is building 15 4,000-square-foot, million-dollar town houses in West New York, and a dozen other developers are jostling for space on River Road, below the cliffs of the Palisades.
And Mr. Barry, chairman of the Applied Companies of Hoboken, a development company, has five projects in the works worth $1 billion.
"This is not a speculative boom," Mr. Barry said. "It's Manhattan-driven. It's a market of young workers who are trading the convenience of living in Manhattan for the price and amenities of Jersey."
For decades, developers have struggled to build a post-industrial frontier along what many wishfully call New Jersey's "gold coast." And for many, those wishes are finally coming true: white-collar office parks are going up where factories once stood; luxury apartments are replacing gantry cranes on the piers, and stylish shops are being carved out of railroad warehouses.
But not everyone is caught up in the real estate euphoria. While many of the eight towns along the Hudson River waterfront see an economic bounty, Weehawken and Hoboken worry about traffic-choked streets at rush hour and the esthetics of brick-and-vinyl-sided town houses and boxy glass office buildings that rob the views and block public access to the waterfront.
In May, development issues figured prominently in the City Council elections in Hoboken, where dissidents captured two seats and community protests forced Mayor Anthony Russo to recommend that a developer withdraw his plan to build the tallest towers in the city.
And just to the north, in Weehawken, which embraces the mouth of the Lincoln Tunnel, residents at a community meeting criticized proposals for a pair of office towers and for more than 1,600 apartments and 1.3 million square feet of commercial space.
"We're afraid of the cumulative effect of all this," said Judith Wadia, a 16-year resident of Weehawken who created the colorful mosaics at the Pavonia PATH station in Jersey City. "I'm afraid this project is going to choke itself to death. There'll be so many thousands of new residents trying to get into the Lincoln Tunnel that the whole project will come to a screeching halt. Then we'll be stuck with empty buildings."
But the debates in Weehawken and Hoboken have done little to dampen the construction craze. And while some economists warn that too much housing is being built, most developers just shrug.
"It's going to take a lot to turn this baby off," said an ebullient Gabriel M. Pasquale, executive vice president for sales and marketing at K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, which is building 445 town houses at three projects in Guttenberg and West New York just north of the Lincoln Tunnel.
 
Rising From Ruins
Boom Flows West From Manhattan
The transformation of the waterfront started in the late 1970's and early 80's. From Jersey City to Weehawken, municipal leaders, residents, environmentalists and developers discussed what to do with the abandoned factories, docks and warehouses.
Developers including the LeFraks, Arthur E. Imperatore Sr. and Hartz Mountain assembled large tracts of land, expecting the demand for new offices and apartments to continue unabated. Eventually, plans to build 30 million square feet of office space and 37,000 housing units were drawn up.
But the recession of the late 80's and early 90's left vacant more than 37 percent of the 7.8 million square feet of office space that had been built in Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken. Condominiums sold for less than 70 percent of construction costs, and apartment rents plummeted.
Developers went bankrupt, leaving behind half-finished projects that resembled Roman ruins.
Mr. Imperatore's vision of a vast network of office parks, shopping centers and apartments at Port Imperial South was reduced to a lone ferry terminal surrounded by acres of vacant land in Weehawken.
It took five more years, until 1994, before a new round of builders began picking through the wreckage.
Mr. Barry, for example, paid a mere $16 million for the Port Liberte project. He and his partners bought or took over other projects, and he is building the Palisades apartment tower in Fort Lee on the ruins of yet another project. Deep-pocketed developers like the LeFraks and Hartz Mountain picked up where they had left off.
Like the one that ended so abruptly a decade ago, the current building boom is fueled by the surging economy in Manhattan. The number of jobs on Wall Street has jumped by 40,000 since 1991, forcing many investment banks to look for expansion space. Most want to stay in Manhattan, but with prime offices in Manhattan renting for $50 to $60 per square foot a year, Jersey City and the other gold coast towns look inviting at less than half the price.
Apartments and town houses are also significantly cheaper on the New Jersey waterfront. A luxurious 2,300-square-foot town house on the water might cost $500,000, less than half the price of the average Manhattan apartment of the same size.
"I was hesitant to consider anything out of the city," said Deena Edington, an executive with Ralph Lauren who moved with her husband from the Upper West Side to Jacob's Ferry, a new town house development in West New York. "But we're quadrupling our living space for the same payment as our city rent." And people like Ms. Edington know that they have the best views.
Farther down the waterfront, Jersey City has been transformed from an industrial backwater into a corporate annex to Manhattan's financial district.
American Express recently announced plans to move 900 employees to Hartz Mountain's new office building at 90 Hudson Street in Jersey City, while PaineWebber, Cigna and U.S. Trust are moving hundreds of employees to the newest office building at the nearby Newport complex.
Ferries and water taxis zip back and forth to Manhattan, carrying about 35,000 passengers a day. And the number of daily riders using the Pavonia PATH station at Newport has jumped, to 10,400 today from 992 in 1987.
New York City has offered tax breaks to large corporations to offset the cheaper rents and generous tax breaks in Jersey City.
But since the Metrotech complex was completed in downtown Brooklyn a few years ago, New York City has done little to develop an office market in Brooklyn or Queens that might compete with projects on the west shore of the Hudson.
As a result, the financial industry now accounts for more than 11 percent of the 244,000 jobs in Jersey City, double the percentage a decade ago.
Starbucks coffee shops have even moved onto the waterfront, in Edgewater and at Newport in Jersey City.
And young people who work in Manhattan, Jersey City or the New Jersey suburbs are snapping up new rental apartments in Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken, where average rents are about $2,200 a month for a two-bedroom apartment (versus $5,500 a month for a two-bedroom in a new apartment house in Manhattan).
At the Riverside and Atlantic apartment towers in Jersey City, the average age of residents is 28. Nearly half moved there from Manhattan, where 9 out of 10 work, mainly in the financial industry.
"It's the best of two worlds," said Scott Weiss, 27, an insurance underwriter who moved to Jersey City from Greenwich Village. "It's easy to get to work and it's easy to get to the city."
And developers say couples with children, as well as those whose children have grown up and left home, are moving into the town houses and apartments that are going up along River Road.
 
Warnings
Looking for Signs Of Next Downturn
But the memories of what happened in the late 80's, when the stock market crash of 1987 sent the region into a tailspin, remain quite fresh, and some developers and investors worry privately that with so many apartments and town houses under construction, the supply may soon exceed the demand.
Last year, for instance, West New York issued permits for 1,187 apartments, condominiums and town houses, up from zero in 1995. That number jumped to 865 from 61 during the same period in Edgewater and to 685 from zero in Hoboken.
"There are 5,000 units coming on line in a market that's never absorbed more than 300 to 400 a year," a developer lamented.
Fred Daibes, chief executive of the Daibes Brothers development company of Edgewater, said he worried constantly about the next downturn. Mr. Daibes, 42, grew up in Edgewater and got his start during the late 1970's renovating two-family houses. Today, his family firm is building a 16-story luxury apartment house called Mariner's Tower on River Road in Edgewater and twin 14-story residential towers for the elderly, also in Edgewater.
But carpenters are hard at work building town houses and apartments all along River Road.
"I'm nervous," Mr. Daibes said. "I'm battening down the hatches. The population isn't growing as fast as we're building apartments."
In West New York, to the south of Mr. Daibes's projects, Marshall B. Tycher, president of the Roseland Property Company, is building about 800 rental apartments at several developments.
Roseland and Mr. Imperatore, president of Arcorp Properties of Weehawken, also recently unveiled plans for 1,643 apartments and 1.3 million square feet of office space at Port Imperial South in Weehawken.
Mr. Tycher acknowledged that although Roseland once rented 100 apartments a month, the pace has since slowed to between 30 and 40. He took solace in the fact that rents continued to climb during the last 18 months.
"The music does not have to stop," said Richard Speciale, a managing principal at Aequitas, a Manhattan real estate investment firm, "but it always slows down. And some of these developers could get hurt. We tend to forget about the cyclical nature of markets."
There are other warning signs. Average office rents on the waterfront have flattened out since peaking at $27 a square foot in 1998, and more space is opening up.
In addition, economists warn that as it was 10 years ago, most of the waterfront construction is related to the financial industry, which is undergoing rapid consolidation as the barriers between commercial banking, insurance and investment banking disappear.
Although there are more jobs on Wall Street today, employment in the entire finance, insurance and real estate sector is still well below the level of 1987.
"There are growing signs of unbridled optimism, particularly with residential construction," said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Regional Financial Associates, an economic consulting firm in West Chester, Pa. But, he added, "Just when you think things can't go wrong, that's when the down cycle rears its ugly head."
"That said," he continued, "we're still a bit away from any significant problems."
 
Consequences
Fears of Reaching A Saturation Point
Even so, all that growth is not without consequence. Much of the new construction appears to be helter-skelter, with little coordinated planning from town to town. Over the years, state officials have tried to impose a regional plan for waterfront development, but their efforts succumbed to the zealously guarded New Jersey tradition of home rule and the towns' refusal to cede authority to the county or state.
But the problem, said Ron Hine, chairman of the Coalition for a Better Waterfront, a citizens' group based in Hoboken, is not so much local zoning regulations as it is the willingness of each town's planning board to grant variances for ever larger projects on small plots of land.
Much of the development debate is now focused on two large projects in Weehawken.
Mr. Imperatore and the Roseland Property Company have shown the borough planning board their plans for Port Imperial South, which include office space, 1,643 apartments in six- to eight-story buildings and a hotel, although the partners have not yet submitted a formal application.
Hartz Mountain is hoping to build a pair of 160-foot office towers at Lincoln Harbor, but a judge has blocked the project, saying it would obscure one of the town's natural resources: the views of the Hudson River and the Manhattan skyline.
At a recent town meeting, one resident, Ariane Scarpa, 65, urged the planning board to reject the projects and preserve the view. "Once it's gone," she said to a wave of applause, "it's gone forever."
In Hoboken, David Roberts, a third-generation resident and a longtime councilman, led an opposition slate in the recent City Council elections that gave voice to widespread dissatisfaction with traffic tie-ups and large new developments.
Mr. Roberts, whose family owns real estate in Hoboken, said he did not want the city to be inundated with what he sees on River Road: row upon row of prefabricated three-story town houses.
"We're reaching a saturation point where the brakes have to be applied," Mr. Roberts said. "There doesn't seem to be any overall planning. They're widening roads instead of limiting density."
But such objections have had little effect on the building boom, leaving it to town and city officials to figure out how to accommodate their new residents.
In Edgewater, for instance, Ted Blumstein, the Superintendent of Schools, said he expected 100 children to join the 335 pupils at Edgewater's only school in coming years. A tax increase might be necessary to expand the school for the second time in seven years. Until now, the newcomers have had little effect on classroom space, because they either did not have children or sent them to private schools, he said.
"Over the last three years, we're getting a much larger percentage of our students from the high-rises," Dr. Blumstein said. At first, he said, single people and young couples working in Manhattan moved into those high-rises, "but now they're having children and sticking."
Development frictions have emerged in other ways. In West New York, Mr. Pasquale of K. Hovnanian Enterprises said his million-dollar town houses would form "an exclusive enclave, set aside and apart."
Those are words that Albio Sires, the Mayor of West New York, does not like to hear. "I want it to be part of the town," Mr. Sires said. "And I will insist on open access to the waterfront."
Farther south, the waterfront boom has not been felt along the Newark Avenue shopping district in Jersey City, because many of the new office workers and residents are oriented toward Manhattan and do not venture far from their buildings and the Newport Center Mall.
"I hope they don't develop any more shopping malls," said Michael Yun, president of the 2,500-member Jersey City Merchants Council, a downtown group. "The impact on the business district has not been great."
The advocates and developers of the gold coast real estate boom say these problems are merely growing pains. The new developments, they say, will bring commerce and life to faded working-class towns.
"This market is as deep as New York's market," said Mr. Barry of the Applied Companies. "There obviously has to be a slowdown. But I don't see it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: New living space along the Hudson River in New Jersey: from left, the Newport complex in Jersey City, the Shipyard housing units in Hoboken and Jacob's Ferry in West New York. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Port Liberte; Newport; Lincoln Harbor; Port Imperial South
 
Chart/Map of New Jersey Riverfront highlighting areas under construction.
 
Port Liberte -- 363 condos built. 134 condos and golf course under construction.
Portofino -- 283 unit rental building
Metro-politan -- 220 rental apts.
Harborside Financial Center -- 1.9M sq. ft. of office space built. Office building and a 350-room Hyatt Regency Hotel in development
Avalon Cove -- 25-story rental tower with 269 apts.
Newport -- 2,294 apts. in 6 towers
Port Imperial South -- 1,643 residential units, 1.9M sq. ft. of commercial space
The Landings -- 276 rental units
Riverview Housing -- 374 congregate care apts.
Avalon River Mews -- 408 rental apts.
Mariner's Cove -- 44 rental town houses and 110 garden apts. built. Nearing completion of the 16 story Mariner's Tower, with175 apts.
Portside -- 2 buildings, 525 apts.
74 Grand St. -- Conversion of warehouse to 300K sq. ft. office building
70 Hudson St. -- 12-story office building
90 Hudson St. -- 423K sq. ft. office tower
Waterfront Corporate Ctr. -- Office tower
Shipyard -- 196 rental apts. built. Now build 2/3ing 172 condos and 138 rentals.
Bull's Ferry -- 54 luxury town houses.
Promenade -- 54 condos and 108 rental apts.
Independence Harbor -- 394 condos built, 131 apts. planned
Palisades -- 538 rental apts.
Avalon Crest -- 351 garden apts.
(The New York Times; Port Liberte photograph by Norman Y. Lono; other photographs by Chang W. Lee)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MAYORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); GOLF (68%); ELECTIONS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V ARA K HOVNANIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



64 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Mexico Leader's Reform Comes Back to Haunt Him
The primary campaign for Mexico's presidential race began as the nomination for the governing party has effectively boiled down to a two-man race. Although the President renounced the tradition under which Mexican presidents have long picked the party candidate, the major challenger, who is ahead in the polls, is someone with whom he already has had one showdown. The President may have to decide whether to honor his pledge or reassert his power to block a longtime nemesis. A1
 
Kosovo Church Explosion
NATO troops were guarding the half-built Serbian Orthodox cathedral in Pristina after a thunderous explosion damaged the interior. A spokesman for the leader of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo denounced the attack as part of a campaign by Kosovo Albanians to remove all traces of the church in Kosovo. It roused strong condemnation from the United Nations and NATO representatives. A8 

Yugoslavia's fractious opposition plans to hold a large rally in Belgrade on Aug. 19 to press President Slobodan Milosevic to accept a transitional government and resign, opposition officials said. A8
 
Battle Over Germany's Course
As the German Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, takes his party toward the right, resistance is mounting and a fight for the soul of Germany's Social Democratic Party has erupted between Mr. Schroder and workers who feel that their party has abandoned them. A3
 
Arafat Courts Factions
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, made a rare effort to secure unity among the Palestinian factions in anticipation of renewed peace talks with Israel. He met with representatives of the leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which is based in Syria. A5
 
Scientist Defends Spy Charges
Wen Ho Lee, the scientist dismissed from his job after security breaches at Los Alamos National Laboratory, speaking publicly in his own defense for the first time, said that he was innocent and that he had not divulged nuclear secrets to China or to "any unauthorized person." A7
 
China-Taiwan Tension Rises
Chinese authorities seized a Taiwan freighter over the weekend near a Taiwan military post on Matsu, a heavily fortified island under Taiwan control. The incident provoked concern in Taiwan that China might have acted improperly, using the ship as a pretext to aggravate a strained situation. A7
 
Indonesia Vote Endorsed
A watchdog committee in Indonesia threw out thousands of allegations of voting irregularities from small parties, clearing the way to announce the results of parliamentary elections that have been delayed for many weeks. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A9-12
 
Debts and Departures Hobble Christian Coalition
The Christian Coalition, which for 10 years has led the charge of the religious right in national and local politics, is now weathering serious financial and leadership turmoil that could affect its ability to exert widespread influence in the 2000 elections, staff members say. The coalition is hobbled by a $2.5 million debt, the departure of most of its experienced leaders and so much turnover in local leadership that it has strong affiliates in no more than seven states, down from the 48 it claimed last year, the staff members say. A1
 
A Daring New Type of Donor
The use of a living donor to provide a liver transplant for an adult is a new and daring procedure, but it is catching on. Doctors say it could rewrite the history of liver transplantation, letting people bypass waiting lists and schedule surgery when it is best for the patient, rather than when an organ becomes available. A1
 
Heat's Death Toll Rises
The number of deaths from last week's record-breaking heat wave rose, even as temperatures began to drop across the Midwest. Nationwide, at least 185 have died since July 19, 80 of them in Illinois. A9
 
Debate on Tax Cut Continues
Democrats raised stiff opposition to a proposed $792 billion Republican tax-cut package, but the Republicans were determined to press on in an effort to reconcile the House and Senate versions of the bill and gain final passage of the measure. Moderates in both parties held out hope for an autumn compromise that would give Americans a tax cut over the next decade and preserve needed Federal programs, but one moderate said there was a good chance that neither side would get what it wanted. A10
 
New Life for Bay Oysters
Scientists say it is a critical turning point in the beleaguered life of the once supreme Chesapeake Bay oyster: a consensus on an oyster reef laboriously created by an armada of scientists and hundreds of volunteers. The reef agreement marks a moment of rare optimism about the tattered health of the oyster and, by extension, the bay itself. A11
 
Mrs. Clinton Speaks Out
Hillary Rodham Clinton says in a magazine interview that she thought her husband had overcome his womanizing 10 years ago. But she said that deep scars from abuse he suffered as a child had led to his infidelity and he had not sufficiently examined those problems to conquer them. A10
 
A Bullet in the Desert
Amtrak's first new train in a generation, the fastest on the continent, is scheduled to be zipping passengers past crowded highways and runways from Washington to Boston by the end of the year. But on its test runs in Pueblo, Colo., it flies by cactus and rattlesnakes, and encounters the occasional antelope. A11
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
A Nation of Teen-Agers United by Cell Phones
A growing number of teen-agers across the country have acquired cell phones, a trend sparked by the recent drop in wireless phone service costs. Although the vast majority of teen-agers use them to talk to their parents daily, most young people consider their phones a lifeline to their friends. A1
 
Renaissance Along the Hudson
A real estate boom is taking place up and down New Jersey's industrial coast, and developers are reshaping the skyline from Bayonne to the George Washington Bridge. Like the one that ended so abruptly a decade ago, the current building boom is fueled by the surging economy in Manhattan. But the prospect of economic bounty is tempered by fears of congestion and memories of what happened in the late 80's, when the stock market crash of 1987 sent the region into a tailspin. Some developers and investors worry that with so many apartments and town houses under construction, the supply may soon exceed the demand. A1
 
Underfoot, the Good News
Hopes are high for a vintage year in the vineyards of Suffolk County, where the dry, sunny weather has been ideal for the grapes. The secret is in the Bridgehampton loam, a clay-and-loam soil mix that lies under the vineyard. B5
 
Camp License Suspended
Several parents contended that state authorities in Connecticut overreacted when they suspended the license of the Shadybrook Camp and Learning Center, a camp for handicapped youngsters. Officials said they had documented incidents of abuse or neglect of campers, and had found unsafe or unsanitary conditions, record-keeping deficiencies and inadequate supervision. B1
 
Long Island Traffic Nightmare
A tractor-trailer carrying liquid oxygen skidded and flipped over on the Long Island Expressway in eastern Queens, creating nightmarish traffic delays for more than five hours. B3
 
ARTS E1-8
 
A Quest for a Cultural Policy
The Pew Charitable Trusts, the $4.7 billion foundation that put its weight behind causes like global warming, civic journalism and campaign finance reform, has a new crusade: shaping a national cultural policy. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Fewer Votes for Microsoft
Microsoft is thriving, the shareholders are rich and its name is synonymous with high technology and success. But in a new nationwide survey, 60 percent of the people who use a computer at work or at home said that they had a favorable opinion of Microsoft, down from 67 percent just a year ago. C1
 
Russian Debt Postponed
Russia and 18 governments agreed to delay payment for 15 to 20 years on $8.1 billion of Soviet-era debt that falls due this year and next. Talks on the rest of the $40 billion that Russia owes to Paris Club nations are to begin next autumn. C2
 
Chicago Title to Be Sold
Fidelity National Financial agreed to buy the Chicago Title Corporation for about $1.2 billion, or $52 share, for about equal amounts of cash and stock. A11
 
Sun's New Microprocessor
Sun Microsystems has disclosed the first details of a new microprocessor design the company hopes could become a standard for computing in the post-PC era. C11
 
Share of Web Shoppers Falls
The percentage of people with Internet access who are making purchases from Web sites declined in the second quarter of 1999 after four quarters of growth. C2
 
Stocks Lower in Tokyo
Stocks were trading lower in Tokyo today. At midday, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 84.19 points, or 0.47 percent, at 17,777.67. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-8
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Legislation by stealth; a time of transition for Arabs; Brent Staples on Jefferson's descendants.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E4
Public Lives A9
Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather B8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); CHINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); GERMANY (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); CHINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); GERMANY (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); DISMISSALS (64%); ESPIONAGE (63%); PEACE PROCESS (51%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999



65 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: A Man, a Plan and a Robot That Makes Eye Contact

BYLINE: By BRUCE SCHECHTER 

 BODY:
Meeting Cog for the first time can be an unsettling experience. Cog, the creation of Rodney Brooks, the director of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is a legless, human-shaped robot that looks like an ungainly ancestor of C3PO.
When visitors approach, Cog swivels its head in a disconcertingly human gesture, and stares at them. Inevitably, the visitors stare back, and for at least an instant get the eerie sense that there has been a meeting of the minds. 
 "Everybody overreacts as a matter of course," said Daniel Dennett, a Tufts University philosopher who works with Dr. Brooks on Cog. "There's something really unsettling when Cog looks at you."
So far, Cog's unsettling gaze is little more than a clever illusion, but Dr. Brooks and his graduate students believe that they have taken the first important steps toward creating a truly intelligent machine.
The key to achieving human intelligence, Dr. Brooks believes, is to build a machine that experiences the world in much the way a human being does. This requires not only the ability to sense and manipulate the physical world, but the social world as well, since from infancy on, almost all of what humans learn comes about from human reaction. And the first step, bridging the gap between humans and machines, is eye contact.
Despite the fact that he directs the world's largest artificial intelligence laboratory, Dr. Brooks is something of a maverick in the field. "Most of my colleagues here in the lab do very different things and have only contempt for my work," he said cheerfully. The majority of artificial intelligence researchers pursue an approach that Dr. Brooks calls, Good Old-Fashioned Artificial Intelligence, or Gofai. According to this approach, the best way to make a computer that is as intelligent as a human is to cram it full of knowledge about the real world and methods to manipulate it.
A leading proponent of this approach is Douglas Lenat, president and chief executive of Cycorp in Austin, Tex., and Dr. Brooks's former adviser. For more than a decade, Dr. Lenat and his team have fed more than a million facts into a program called Cyc. Most of these facts are matters of common sense: for example, that glasses full of water usually should be carried rightside-up and that people generally stop buying things after they die.
The problem with this tactic, Dr. Brooks feels, is that it is "not grounded anywhere."
"To me," Dr. Brooks said, "it's like an intelligence which only has access to a Korean dictionary. It has perfectly self-consistent definitions, but it's not connected to the world in any way."
The schism in the artificial intelligence field represented by these two approaches to building intelligent machines in some ways mirrors the split among educators. Traditional educators, like Dr. Lenat, believe "that intelligence is intimately tied up with having and being able to use knowledge." Dr. Brooks's approach is closer to that of educators like John Dewey, who urged "a philosophy of education based upon a philosophy of experience." As Dr. Lenat puts it, "We represent the 'it's worth it to go to school' point of view, and he represents the 'you can learn stuff on your own' point of view."
Before setting out to make a robot that could learn things on its own, Dr. Brooks spent more than a decade building robotic insects that could freely scurry about and explore his laboratory. Other researchers had done similar things, but their creations, which relied on the ideas of Gofai, were awkward and slow. The legs of their insects were controlled by a central computer that had a detailed three-dimensional map of the terrain and knew all the relevant laws of physics and strategies for setting goals. Dr. Brooks did away with the massive central processor. Instead, each insect leg contains a small circuit that tells it to swing forward if the leg is in the air, to swing backward if it is on the ground, and not to lift if the adjacent leg is up, along with a few other similar facts.
"It's all local computation physically coupled through the body," Dr. Brooks said. Nevertheless, from the interaction of these circuits, Dr. Brooks's insects spontaneously begin to walk with a gait very similar to that taken by actual insects.
"I had this plan," Dr. Brooks recalled. "I was going to do insects and then I was going to do an iguana. And then I was going to do maybe a simple mammal, then I was going to do a cat, then I was going to do a monkey, and then I was going to do humans." The problem with this plan, he soon realized, was that it would take too long; insects alone had taken him 10 years.
So he asked himself: "Do I want to die being remembered as the guy who built the best artificial cat? No. So I decided to jump and see where we could get. At least I'd be remembered as the foolish guy who was way overambitious."
Over the past five years Dr. Brooks, with the help of six or seven graduate students, has begun to realize his ambitious dream. Today Cog is a skeletal aluminum figure, with a swiveling, octagonal head perched on broad, motor-studded shoulders from which sprout a pair of powerful arms that end with simple, fingerless hands. The researchers decided not to equip Cog with legs.
"We're not sure what to do with a toddler strapped to a high chair, much less something that can walk around as well," said Brian Scassellati, one of Dr. Brooks's graduate students.
Cog's eyes consist of two pairs of video cameras -- one wide angle, the other with a narrower focus to simulate human vision, which is far more sensitive in the middle than on the edges. They move much as human eyes move. The output of these cameras is displayed on a bank of amber monitors mounted on a rack behind the robot. Cog also has tiny microphone ears, gyroscopes that work much like the inner ear to provide a sense of up and down, and various sensors to report the position of its limbs. With all this hardware, there is little room left for brains, so these -- a network of Pentium computers -- are mounted in a nearby rack.
So far, Cog's achievements are modest, though impressive by the standards of robotics. Cog can make eye contact, track motion by swiveling head and eyes, and even distinguish humans from other less interesting objects. It can make a Slinky gracefully cascade from hand to hand, turn a crank and has even played drums in a rock video. Robots programmed using the standard principles of artificial intelligence could probably perform these tasks too, but not with the human grace of Cog, its creators say. For example, a visitor can halt Cog's playing with a Slinky by simply placing a hand gently on its arm; when the hand is removed, Cog resumes its play.
Cog also has a younger sister named Kismet, a cartoon-cute character with bushy eyebrows, pink ears, a pair of large blue eyes, complete with eyelids, and a mouth that can open and shut. All of these endearingly childlike features are carefully calculated to evoke the maternal instincts of Kismet's human companions.
"Kismet is essentially training the human to be a good teacher," said Cynthia Breazeal, a designer of Kismet. Kismet has a simple set of moods -- like happiness, interest, anger, fear, disgust or surprise -- that it can express on its face.
Kismet also has a set of needs, like the need to be stimulated by people and toys, a need to interact, and a need to avoid fatigue. "These drives are always changing in time," Dr. Breazeal explains. "When one need becomes very strong, behaviors such as facial expressions that act to satiate that need become active." For example, playing with a toy might amuse Kismet for a while, which it shows by a happy expression -- eyes wide open, eyebrows up, ears perked. But then Kismet becomes bored and its face begins to droop. Like any good parent, Kismet's human companion now tries desperately to see what else will amuse the robot and finally hits upon the reliable standby of making funny faces. Kismet, who was craving social interaction, is appeased and begins to smile once again.
When speaking of Kismet and Cog, it is difficult to avoid the trap of anthropomorphism. Even the robots' creators do not claim that Kismet possesses human emotions, but that does not mean that "she" possesses no emotions at all. "Cog doesn't have all the sorts of consciousness that a human infant, a dog or a bird has, but it has some," Dr. Dennett said. "It doesn't have all the rich, lush embellishments of human boredom, but it's probably pretty much in a state that might inspire a zoo-goer to say, 'these snakes are bored, aren't they?' "
It is to answer questions like these, rather than the thrill of building a humanoid robot, that Dr. Brooks said he had undertaken his overambitious project. "The goal of having humanoid robots?" he said. "Certainly from a science fiction point of view, I'd love it. To me it's a romantic notion. Whether that will make sense in any sociological, economic or other sense, I can't say at this point."
Dr. Brooks and his students want to be experimental philosophers, using Cog as a platform to investigate theories of the human mind. "You look at some cognitive theory and there's a lot of hand-waving around the edge," Dr. Brooks said. "When you try to put it in a robot, you have to get rid of the hand-waving and connect it up to the other stuff, which sharpens everyone's appreciation and understanding."
Still, Dr. Brooks has a clear-cut criterion for success: "I'll know that I've succeeded when my graduate students feel bad about turning off the robot."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cog, left, can distinguish humans from other objects and track motion by swiveling head and eyes; Kismet expresses happiness and boredom. (Photographs by Sam Ogden)(pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (77%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (77%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ROBOTS; ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: SCHECHTER, BRUCE; BROOKS, RODNEY (DR) ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



66 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA;
Romance Novelists: Profits Without Honor

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 2

 BODY:
"Often women's accomplishments are overlooked," Kelsey Roberts, the author of 28 romantic suspense novels, told her audience at the Romance Writers of America conference here last week. "But that's no longer true in terms of murder. We're starting to kill people almost as often as men do."
Ms. Roberts's seminar, called "Arsenic and New Lace," was about creating credible female villains, and her remark left unclear whether she was referring to life or fiction. But like many of the dozens of lectures and workshops at the four-day conference that ended on Saturday night -- from "Tight Fittin' Jeans or How to Create Sexual Tension" to "Writing African-American Historicals" to "Creating the Contemporary Cowboy" -- the message was that women in general and romance writers in particular (who are so overwhelmingly female that most men's rooms at the Chicago Sheraton Cityfront were temporarily redesignated) are tired of being dismissed. 
 Indeed, the one thing that became clear as nearly 2,000 authors of romance novels, both published and aspiring, gathered here at their annual convention, was that romance writers recognize they have an image problem. No respect, you know?
There was even one seminar called "Defending the Genre," in which the novelist Valerie Taylor listed the most frequently heard insults of the genre: it's anti-feminist, it presents too many woman as needing to escape abusive relationships, all the books are the same, it's just pornography for women, it's unrealistic, it's fluff, and it can't be serious if half the population doesn't care about it. She offered advice on how to respond. For instance, for insulters who read literary fiction, she advised her listeners, "Give them well-written books that deal with slightly darker things."
The overall point was that the romance genre is large and various, its pulpiness and sugar-coating offered in a range of doses, its plots and settings vastly differentiable, its sentences not necessarily execrable. Not unlike, say, science fiction, horror fiction or mysteries, all of which have well-known practitioners whose work is often treated with seriousness by readers and reviewers.
"Seventy-five percent of romance fiction" is junk, said Jennifer Crusie, who teaches literature and writing at Ohio State University and has written 11 romance novels. "But do you read literary fiction? Seventy-five percent of literary fiction" is junk too, she said. "The point is you can't criticize a book on the basis of genre."
You also can't criticize a genre -- not this one, anyway -- on the basis of its economic muscle. Romances -- that is, male-female love stories that frown on adultery and that must have a happy ending ("a marriage, the promise of a marriage, the idea that they're going to be together forever and ever," said Charis McEachern, the spokeswoman for the association) -- far outsell any other genre.
In 1997, the last year for which figures are available, 38 percent of all adult popular fiction books sold were romance novels, more than 201 million of them. More than half of all mass-market paperbacks sold were romances, which are mostly (88 percent) published in rack-size paperback form. Last year publishers brought out 1,963 new romances (including 95 in electronic form) for an American audience estimated by the association at 41 million. Some romance readers consume as many as 14 books a month. The largest publisher is Harlequin (446 titles last year), which is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year.
That kind of voracity demands constant feeding, and throughout the four days editors and agents met with aspirants to hear them pitch their manuscripts. "I'm actively acquiring for Sonnet Books, our historicals line, and for our mainstream line," Caroline Tolley, an editor at Pocket Books, said. The women around her all leaned forward urgently, as if choreographed, their pencils poised. "I will also look at a time travel, I'll look at a paranormal and contemporary suspense."
The pitches were feverishly hopeful. One woman, Amy Tollwitch, a 38-year-old former lawyer from Cincinnati, gave her synopsis of a story set in medieval England: "A wealthy heiress with a singular passion for horse breeding marries a bastard-born warrior to protect her estate and her way of life from a greedy neighbor," Ms. Tollwitch began.
Ms. Tolley instructed her and the others to send along three chapters of the manuscript, a cover letter and a self-addressed envelope.
Romance Writers of America is based in Houston. Founded by 37 writers in 1980, it now has more than 8,000 members, including more than 1,500 published novelists. Among them are a few anomalies. One was Harold Lowry, a 57-year-old former voice teacher and church organist from Charlotte, N.C, who, as Leigh Greenwood, writes two series of western love stories ("The Brides," with titles like "Laurel" and "Daisy," and "The Cowboys," with titles like "Jake" and "Chet.") The most successful of the few male romance writers, he shows up at many of these conferences. Asked if his admirers have ever made romantic inquiries, he chuckled and gave a response that might belong in a book.
"If they have, they haven't told me about it," he said. "And if they did, my wife would probably take my plane tickets away."
Another was Ms. Crusie, an academic with a specialty in English fiction. "I like to say 'The Wife of Bath' was the first romance novel because it's a toxic story recast so that the woman wins," she said, laughing as she acknowledged that a man wrote it. Ms. Crusie came upon romances when she was researching a dissertation on "the impact of gender on narrative strategies."
Genre fiction, she said, is defined by reader expectations.
"In literary fiction, the expectation is for the language," she said, "but if you are a genre reader you will put up with a lot of bad writing if you are interested in the plot and the characters. The primary thing I have to accomplish on the page is character, and I will sacrifice language for it."
Another difference is that "literary fiction looks ahead" and "genre fiction tells us what everyone was thinking five minutes ago. We're reactive. We don't challenge as much. In my last book, I challenged the assumption that a woman should lead her life for the expectations of other people. Well, that's kind of a 'duh.' "
Nonetheless, her work pushes the limits of the genre enough that her publisher, St. Martin's Press, explicitly differentiated her latest book, "Crazy for You," from her other romances. "Crazy for You," a contemporary romance about the love travails of a small town art teacher and an auto mechanic, has plenty of salty language and sex scenes that are surprisingly raw. And it has that "duh" theme; all the women take action to change their lives when they find them stiflingly complacent, a complacency enforced on them by their men. She was rewarded by a review in The New York Times, highly unusual for a romance novel, which she is proud of, even if the reviewer was not quite lukewarm.
Ms. Crusie does despair that commerce drives romance writers to minimize their artistic impulses. What, after all, to make of a seminar that urges writers to deepen their characterizations by learning more about the eight female archetypes? (For the uninformed, they are: the nurturer, the crusader, the librarian, the waif, the free spirit, the spunky kid, the survivor and the boss.)
Conference attendees also learned that certain settings, like England and Scotland, were perennial reader favorites. The Civil War is no longer sure-fire, but cowboys and babies (particularly secret babies) are currently irresistible.
Many of the best-attended workshops dealt unashamedly with the tricks of selling and promoting; as Ms. Roberts, the suspense novelist, informed her listeners, the two most important parts of a book are the opening and the end of the third chapter, "because that's the last thing an editor reads before she decides whether to buy your book."
That kind of aspiration creates an air of unpleasant competition, which at the conference was characterized by, well, cattiness. One seminar addressed that, too. It had an oddly gender-bending title, "Nice Guys Finish First," and encouraged good will among romance writers. One speaker was the novelist Rebecca Hagan Lee, who confessed she was appalled at the mean-spirited things she'd heard women at the conference saying. Things like this, she said:
"If only Judith or Katherine or Heather or Nora -- insert your favorite writer here -- would get on a plane and crash, there'd be a slot for me," Ms. Lee said, pausing for the gasps in the audience.
"Well guess what?" she said. "That's not a guarantee."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Caroline Tolley, left, an editor at Pocket Books, gave pointers to writers on getting their manuscripts accepted. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. E2); Kelsey Roberts, a romance novelist, speaks about creating credible female villians. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. E1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ROMANCE WRITERS OF AMERICA ROMANCE WRITERS OF AMERICA (93%); ROMANCE WRITERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMANCE WRITERS OF AMERICA ROMANCE WRITERS OF AMERICA (93%); ROMANCE WRITERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; WOMEN WRITERS (97%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (93%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE (89%); WOMEN (78%); MURDER (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (69%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE KELSEY ROBERTS (58%); AMY TOLLWITCH (56%); CAROLINE TOLLEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



67 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Still Hums, But Growth Rate Is Slower

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2

 BODY:
Manufacturing grew at a slower rate in July as new orders and production declined, according to a survey of executives released today, offering a sign that the Federal Reserve may bide its time in raising interest rates again.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's factory index fell to 53.4 for the month -- the largest drop since July 1996. The index had hit a two-year high of 57 in June. 
 Still, July was the sixth consecutive month the index had stayed above 50, meaning that most manufacturers surveyed reported improved business. This follows eight months of weakness and suggests that a turnaround from the slump last year is gradual. As a result, economic growth may be restrained enough that Fed policy makers will be less worried about accelerating inflation.
"Manufacturing will come back stronger," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at the Wells Fargo Company in Minneapolis. "But it's just taking longer."
The association's index of new orders showed the largest drop since July 1996 as it and the production index fell for the first time since April.
Other parts of the economy continue to exhibit strength. A separate report released today showed that construction spending rose in June for the first time in three months as builders stepped up work on offices, factories and schools.
Construction spending rose five-tenths of a percent in June after dropping 1.4 percent the previous month, Commerce Department figures showed. Still, construction of single-family homes fell six-tenths of a percent in June as builders continued to have trouble finding workers and getting some materials.
In manufacturing, demand for United States goods has improved this year as foreign economies overcame their 1998 slumps. Exports in the second quarter were $11 billion larger than in the first quarter.
In addition, second-quarter inventories accumulated at a slower pace than in the first quarter, which means that businesses could be poised to place orders in the months ahead.
The report today also foreshadowed potential price increases down the road. The association's index of prices paid rose to its highest level since September 1997, indicating that more companies reported paying higher prices for their supplies. Another index showed that more companies reported slower deliveries of supplies, which could also cost them money.
Other recent reports also indicate that the rebound for factories has been slower than expected. Government figures showed that orders for durable goods in June were restrained by reduced demand for industrial machinery.
And some signs show that consumers could be closing their wallets after spending earlier this year at the fastest pace in 11 years. Consumer spending slowed in the second quarter, to a 4 percent annual rate of increase, after rising at a 6.7 percent pace in the first quarter.
That does not mean that spending will dry up, however. Several industries, especially housing and automobiles, continue to support record or near-record sales. And sales of both new and existing homes are on track to set another annual record.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" plots total construction spending, from Jan. 1998 through June 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



68 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Dumb Old Party

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Columnists for this paper are not allowed to endorse politicians, but I'm going to break that rule just once and come out and say it: I'm a Trent Lott man. Really.
I'm for Mr. Lott because he appears intent on holding to the extreme Republican position -- that we pass an across-the-board tax cut that gives away virtually the entire projected budget surplus, and that there be no compromise with the more realistic Clinton proposal. I'm for Mr. Lott because his extremism guarantees a Clinton veto of the whole tax bill, and, given the idiotic debate on this issue, that is the best outcome we could have right now. Because with no new tax bill, just gridlock, nothing changes. Gridlock when you're running a deficit is terrible. But gridlock when you're running a surplus is a blessing. It means the surplus just keeps piling up and goes to paying down the national debt. That reduces government borrowing and lowers interest rates, which means lower mortgage, student loan and credit card payments for everyone -- the best tax cut of all. 
 So I say, "Go, Trent, go!" -- take the Republicans right over the waterfalls, insure the Clinton veto, and then we can wait for a more sane Republican leadership, knowing that in the meantime the national debt is being repaid. It's too bad it has to come to this, but there's no other option at a time when the G.O.P. has simply become the Dumb Old Party -- the D.O.P. -- which is so lost and divided it can only agree on one big dumb idea -- an irresponsible tax cut to feed consumption in a white-hot economy.
What is missing is any Republican strategic concept about where America is today and what sorts of investments will be required for American workers, society and armed forces to thrive in an increasingly globalized world. Committing to long-term tax reduction schemes -- without any strategic vision -- is like going to war not only without an exit strategy but without even an entry strategy.
Senator William Roth Jr., the Republican author of the $792 billion tax giveaway, said it was "a giant step forward to give the American people a tax break." How about a giant step to prepare the American people for the next century? A real domestic strategy, Republican or Democratic, would start with an honest plan for tackling the twin debts of the 1980's -- the huge deficits run up by the Reagan Administration and the Democratic Congress in those days, plus the unfunded liabilities of the future in both Social Security and Medicare. Really eliminating these twin debts would put America on a fiscal footing that would not only make us the envy of the world, but insure our dominance well into the future.
What the Republican leadership doesn't understand is that in this age of globalization you not only need to get the size of your government down, you also have to get the quality of your government and workers up. You don't win by mindlessly shrinking government alone. And that's why a domestic strategic vision must include investment in the quality of government -- whether it is improving the F.A.A., police, schools or the F.B.I. -- and the quality of workers.
Investments in innovation, human capital and new technologies are what will drive our growth in the future, much more than plant and equipment. And a public policy focused on promoting the former, with tax incentives, not the latter, with huge capital gains cuts, is critical.
"In this new economy a worker's security will not come from a union card or the promise of lifetime employment at a big company," notes Will Marshall of the Progressive Policy Institute. "It will come from the quality of the tools you carry around in your own head. We need a tax policy that will encourage lifetime learning, so every worker can master the skills for global competition."
We also need investment in families and communities, through family-friendly tax policies, because families and communities are the best safety nets for sustaining people in today's high-pressure labor markets.
I don't agree with the whole Clinton budget (I'd have no tax cut), but at least it is based on a realistic vision of the world we are heading into. I wish there were a real Republican alternative. The country would benefit from that debate. Instead, what we have now is one party saying, "The world is new, and this is the only way to tackle it," and the other saying, "The world is flat, and there's nothing new to be done." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: DUMB OLD PARTY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUMB OLD PARTY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); WRITERS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MEDICARE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L TRENT LOTT (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



69 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Nago Journal;
Next Year's Battle of Okinawa: For Hotel Rooms

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: NAGO, Japan

 BODY:
When Japan's Prime Minister announced recently that the site of the conference of leading industrial nations next year would be this charming little city in Okinawa, the Mayor danced a jig at City Hall.
"I never expected our city to be chosen, so I did what all Okinawans do when we are happy," the Mayor, Tateo Kishimoto, said. "I danced and I danced and I danced. 
 "We are a little different from the rest of Japan. We are not afraid to show our emotions."
There was much to celebrate. Okinawa, Japan's poorest prefecture, seemed a long shot for staging a meeting of such international importance. Tokyo was the site of three previous summit meetings of the world's wealthiest nations.
Relations between the central Government and Okinawa, once a separate kingdom, have never been great, and Okinawans have long opposed the American military bases in the archipelago.
But Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi's decision to hold the economic summit meeting here is widely viewed as a shrewd political move to stimulate Okinawa's stalled economy and to make progress on long-disputed plans to reduce the United States military presence here.
Near the end of World War II, Okinawa was the site of a fierce battle between Japanese and American soldiers in which more than 200,000 people, including civilians, were killed. Under the 1951 peace treaty, Okinawa was placed under the United States military, which established vast bases on the island. Okinawa reverted to Japanese rule in 1972.
There are many logistical and political hurdles to overcome if the summit conference, scheduled for next July, is to be successful. There is much that can go wrong. For starters, Okinawa, an island prefecture of 1.2 million people, lacks the transportation, hotel, communications and security demanded by an event of the conference's size.
While Tokyo is spending hundreds of millions of dollars to build new conference halls, widen roads and install advanced telecommunications, conference organizers still worry about whether necessary preparations can be completed on time.
The main site will be here in Nago at the Okinawa International Friendship Hall, which is under construction on a striking cape. Nago, which has a population of 55,000, is in the center of the main island. But the main airport is a two-hour drive away in Naha, the capital of Okinawa.
Organizers are considering using helicopters to ferry heads of state from the airport to the main conference site, but they are also concerned that typhoon season will be under way. While several United States military airfields are closer to Nago than the public airport, Okinawa officials are reluctant to use them.
For Okinawa, the potential economic benefits of holding the summit conference are huge. Okinawa officials estimate that 7,000 people will visit for the conference, generating hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues.
Isolated from the mainland and long dependent on the military bases and Tokyo for subsidies, Okinawa has the country's highest unemployment (6 percent), lowest household savings rate and lowest per capita income (about $18,000, or 70 percent of the national average).
Morisada Maeshiro, an economics professor at the University of Ryukyus in Okinawa, said that if handled properly, the conference would provide Okinawa with a prime opportunity to expand its tourism industry.
"The summit is a sort of coming-out party for Okinawa," he said. "If we show the world a good time, that could mean millions of dollars in future revenues in repeat business and a chance to become less financially dependent on the national Government and the bases."
But many Okinawans said that by holding the conference here, the national Government was pressing them to choose between economic development and accepting the American bases, which comprise one-fifth of the land in the prefecture.
At the center of the bases issue is an agreement between the United States and Japan to relocate the Marine Corps Futenma Air Station, which is in the middle of a residential area in Ginowan. Residents complain that the noise from military aircraft makes living in Ginowan almost unbearable.
Last year the two Governments agreed to replace the air station, a nuisance to local residents, with a sea-based site off the coast of Nago, but that plan was rejected by the prefecture government. Several other options are being considered.
A survey last year by local newspapers showed that 65 percent of registered voters in Okinawa want the Futenma station relocated outside the prefecture, a move that United States military officials have said is unfeasible because the air station needs to be close to Marine ground operations.
If the matter is not resolved before the start of the summit meeting, President Clinton could face protests from local residents when he arrives.
"We are happy that the summit is being held here and we want to show the world our wonderful prefecture," said Yasuhiro Miyagi, a Nago city councilman, "but if the Government forces us to accept a new Futenma air base in Okinawa, we will disrupt the summit with protests."
Many Okinawa residents said that they wanted to express their concerns about the military bases directly to Mr. Clinton and that they hoped he would hold a town hall meeting during the summit conference.
Equally important, many Okinawans said, is that the islanders use the summit meeting to introduce the world to their culture and way of life, which they maintain are not typically Japanese. Okinawans are descendants of the inhabitants of the Ryukyus kingdom, which became part of Japan in 1879. Because of the Ryukyus' trade links with Taiwan, China and Thailand, Okinawans have developed their own distinct cultural forms, dialect and cuisine.
"Traditional Japanese society is very rigid and hierarchical, based on one's status," said Etsuko Ashimine, a local resident. "Okinawan society is vertical. We are warmer and more friendly than people on the mainland. We are proud to be Japanese, but we are different."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The city of Nago, on a cape on Okinawa's main island, will be the site of an economic summit conference next year. A conference center and hotel will be built in a forested area, left foreground. Residents of Okinawa, right, often demonstrate against the United States military presence there. (Photographs by Asahi Shinbun for The New York Times)
 
Map of Japan showing the location of Nago: Nago is a two-hour drive from Okinawa's main airport at Naha.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; OKINAWA AND OTHER RYUKYU ISLANDS; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CITIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); TYPHOONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); HELICOPTERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



70 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Wages and Panic Buttons

BYLINE: By Laura D'Andrea Tyson; Laura D'Andrea Tyson, dean of the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, was chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and the National Economic Council in the first Clinton Administration.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif.

 BODY:
Financial markets reacted with alarm last week to an unexpectedly large increase in the compensation of the American work force. For Americans who work for a living and also invest in financial markets, this reaction may seem perplexing and even perverse.
Doesn't a strong economy mean higher take-home pay for American workers as well as higher profitability for American companies and those who invest in them? Must there be a tradeoff between the well-being of Americans as workers and the well-being of the same Americans as investors? 
 Inflation is the link between the health of financial markets and the health of labor markets. Wages are the largest component of family income, but they are also the largest component of production costs. When worker pay grows faster than worker productivity, costs rise, profits are squeezed, and prices start to increase more quickly.
Higher prices in turn mean higher interest rates, as lenders insist on higher returns to protect against future inflation and as the Federal Reserve acts to quell inflation by raising short-term interest rates. And higher interest rates mean lower prices for financial assets like stocks and bonds. The implication of this chain of simple economic logic is clear: inflation is a common threat to Americans as workers and as investors.
Fear of a surge in inflation caused financial markets to swoon after Government statistics showed last week that the employment cost index was up an unexpected 1.1 percent for the quarter. The index is generally considered to be the best measure of what's happening to overall compensation, which encompasses both wages and health benefits and pensions.
So the markets' anxiety may have been understandable. But it was also excessive.
First, as anyone who works with economic statistics knows, a single quarter's estimate does not a trend make. Although the increase in the employment cost index in the second quarter of this year was the largest since 1991, it followed two quarters of unexpectedly small increases. Over the last year, the index climbed by about 3.5 percent, slightly slower than the year before.
Second, much of this recent increase reflected commissions and performance-related pay in financial services jobs -- one-time increases rather than permanent additions to compensation.
Third and most important, so long as worker productivity continues to rise at about 2 percent a year, American companies can afford to pay their workers 3.5 to 4 percent more per year without increasing their prices faster than the current inflation rate of about 2 percent.
Why, then, are financial markets so skittish? There are several factors at work that have nothing to do with American workers' pay.
The global economy is heating up as Europe, Japan and several emerging markets recover from recessions. This is causing commodity prices to rebound, increasing the prices of things like energy, which are also important ingredients of production costs.
In addition, greater competition for capital in the rest of the world is curbing foreign appetite for American financial assets, driving the dollar's value down in recent weeks. This is a source of anxiety because the dollar's appreciation has shaved at least half a percent off our annual inflation rate during the last few years.
In short, there is little evidence that labor costs are rising, despite tight labor markets, but there is mounting evidence that other factors have again shifted the balance of risks facing the American economy toward inflation.
Moreover, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, has signaled that the Fed is poised to raise short-term interest rates again this year if necessary to pre-empt an increase in inflationary pressure. This is hardly a soothing message for equity markets, which according to standard models are somewhat overvalued and therefore vulnerable to correction.
Still, all this skittishness should not obscure the fact that tight labor markets have been a real boon for the American economy. After years of stagnation, wages and family incomes for the majority of Americans are finally growing; after decades of widening, income inequality is finally narrowing, and unemployment rates for members of racial minorities and high-school dropouts have hit record lows.
The challenge for Washington in the coming months will be how to navigate this expansion along a road marred by potholes of inflationary risk. The good news is that with inflation and interest rates still low, productivity growth strong and technological change fueling investment in new production capacity, there is no need for the Fed to slam on the brakes. A little judicious slowing at the right time -- that is, a small adjustment or two in rates if conditions warrant -- should do the trick, so long as those nervous financial markets do not cause us to lose sight of the road.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COS (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY WAGES & SALARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); 

PERSON: TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



71 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Slip aBit for Treasuries; 30-Year's Yield Up to 6.12%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Prices for Treasury bonds fell yesterday, with demand sapped both by concern that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates again and by the prospect of at least $42 billion of expected debt sales.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 8/32, to 88 6/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.12 percent from 6.10 percent on Friday. 
 Bonds actually trimmed losses of almost a full point earlier in the session. The partial rebound came after a report showed that manufacturing grew in July at a slower-than-expected pace and as yields that had reached five-week highs lured buyers.
"It'll be a tough row to hoe" for bonds in the weeks ahead, said Paul Van Kampen, portfolio manager at NCM Capital Management Group Inc. in Durham, N.C. He has added bonds to the $4.4 billion he helps manage, though he still sees room for more losses before any big gains.
Treasuries had fallen in step with declines in bonds in Europe and Japan and as the dollar declined against the yen.
"We're setting up for a buying opportunity, but we're not there yet," said William Stevens, senior portfolio manager at Montgomery Asset Management L.L.C. in San Francisco. He said he would consider adding bonds to the $1.8 billion portfolio he oversees if yields rise about another quarter-point.
Bonds pared some losses after the July report from the National Association of Purchasing Management showed that manufacturing growth rose at a slower-than-expected pace.
"This report may be seized on by some as a reason for the Fed to stand pat," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. "We still think rates will rise on the 24th" of August, when central bank officials next meet to set policy, he said.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.813	97.599	High Rate	4.69%	4.75%	Coupon Yield	4.83%	4.94%	Low Rate	4.59%	4.63%	Median Rate	4.68%	4.74%	Total applied for	$30,095,914	$28,081,348	Accepted	$12,392,414	$12,470,298	Noncompetitive	$1,445,128	$1,237,270	
Both issues are dated Aug. 5, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 4, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 3, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from April through July. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); MONTGOMERY ASSET MANAGEMENT LP (54%); PRICES FOR TREASURY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES FOR TREASURY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



72 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Asian Luxury Hotel Is Near a Rare Sale

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Aug. 2

 BODY:
In a relatively small deal with broad implications, an investment firm connected with the Rockefeller family appears set to buy a luxury hotel on the island of Bali from a company controlled by one of Indonesia's own wealthy industrial dynasties, according to people close to the buyer and seller.
Surya Semesta Internusa, a company controlled by the Suriadjaya family of Indonesia, plans to sell the 500-room Melia Bali hotel to Trenwith Holdings Ltd. for approximately $50 million, one of the informants said. Trenwith is a joint venture 70 percent owned by Rockvest Development, a Rockefeller trust controlled by Nicholas Rockefeller, a California lawyer. 
 More than the names of the buyer and seller, the deal is important because big real estate transactions in Asia, particularly any involving prominent hotels, have been extremely rare, even with the Asian economic crisis severely hurting the hotel business.
Luxury hotels are considered business trophies that symbolize success, and Asian owners try to keep them regardless of their own financial problems. From that perspective, the sale of the Melia Bali may signal the sales of other big hotels in Asia.
Reached by telephone, a spokeswoman for Surya Semesta said the company had not signed any agreements, and she rejected requests for interviews.
One person said Surya Semesta had already signed a sales agreement and another said other prospective buyers who met with the company's vice president and director, Johannes Suriadjaya, last week in Jakarta were told that the hotel had already been sold.
Trenwith also did not respond to repeated requests for interviews, and Mr. Rockefeller could not be reached for comment.
Despite Asia's financial difficulties, the real estate market has been remarkably slow. Hotels are a good example.
According to the Singapore office of the real estate brokerage firm Jones Lang LaSalle, only eight hotel transactions took place last year, $300 million in deals that represent just two-tenths of 1 percent of the entire Asian hotel market. In the United States, by contrast, more than 15 percent of the market changed hands last year. Would-be investors and brokers say hotel owners are hanging on to their properties, often defaulting on loans, in hope that the market may recover.
"They're pulling a Qaddafi," said Robert Stiles, managing director at the real estate investment bank Sonnenblick-Goldman, alluding to practices of the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, of moving from place to place to elude attack.
Hotel owners, Mr. Stiles says, typically play potential buyers against their bankers in a bid for time.
"You have this constant shuttling between the tents," he said. "The hope is that conditions will improve so you don't have to sell."
The noisiest complaints about such tactics have come from potential buyers, who say that this reflects the underlying cronyism and favoritism still permeating Asian economies. Economists are less critical, though. Speaking in Bangkok last week, the World Bank's chief economist, Joseph Stiglitz, praised the progress he said Asia had made in recovering from the deep crisis that began in the summer of 1997, saying criticism was coming largely from foreigners disappointed that they had failed to pick up cheap assets.
Hotels have occupied a special place in Asia's corporate firmament. Where hotels in the United States tend to be owned by institutional investors who put a priority on profit, Asian hotels are typically owned by family-run conglomerates and managed by foreign companies, serving as glamorous testaments to corporate achievement.
Among these, the Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong is owned by the Kadoorie family. Singapore's Ritz-Carlton belongs to four Indonesian brothers named Kwee. The Shangri-La hotels are controlled by the Malaysian magnate Robert Kuok. And the Meridien President in Bangkok is owned by a former Deputy Prime Minister and prominent businessman, Chalermphan Srivikorn.
The 26-acre, now $200-a-night Melia Bali, situated on the beach north of the town of Nusa Dua, is no exception. With its plunge pools and personal butlers, it is the property of the Suriadjaya family, whose patriarch, William Suriadjaya, an ethnic Chinese trader, started an automobile company called Astra in 1957. Today, Mr. Suriadjaya remains one of the most respected figures in Indonesian business and Astra International is the country's largest auto maker, a $1.7 billion company with diversified interests ranging from palm oil to running shoes.
Only the Suriadjayas no longer own all that. While it was trust-busters who spelled the end of the Rockefeller empire -- if not its riches -- in 1911, the Suriadjaya family's nemesis came in the form of William's son, Edward. In 1992, Edward ruined the family bank, forcing his father to sell the Astra stake to cover his losses.
Surya Semesta Internusa is a holding company in which William had a stake when it was founded in 1971, but which is now controlled by William's brother Benjamin Suriadjaya and his son Johannes. It has interests in construction, building material, real estate and the Melia Bali, which is managed by Sol Melia S.A. of Spain. Industry executives said the $50 million price for the Melia Bali is high, but they hope it will encourage other property owners in the region to sell.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Bali showing location of the Melia Bali hotel: The Melia Bali is being readied for sale at a price around $50 million. Some see more such transactions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SSIA (IDX) (58%); JLL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (56%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: SURYA SEMESTA INTERNUSA; MELIA BALI HOTEL (BALI, INDONESIA); TRENWITH HOLDINGS LTD; ROCKVEST DEVELOPMENT PT SURYA SEMESTA INTERNUSA TBK (58%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SURYA SEMESTA INTERNUSA; MELIA BALI HOTEL (BALI, INDONESIA); TRENWITH HOLDINGS LTD; ROCKVEST DEVELOPMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); 

PERSON: SURIADJAYA FAMILY; ROCKEFELLER FAMILY; ARNOLD, WAYNE JOHANNES SURIADJAYA (85%); NICHOLAS ROCKEFELLER (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



73 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
2 Small-Aircraft Makers Told To Reduce Export Subsidies

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug. 2

 BODY:
In a ruling that shook the burgeoning $55 billion market for small passenger jets, two of the world's leading small-aircraft manufacturers, Embraer S.A. of Brazil and Bombardier Inc. of Canada, were told by the World Trade Organization today to scale back export subsidy programs.
The ruling, in a dispute that has taken three years to resolve, affects Embraer the most, because the Brazilian company has an estimated $4.5 billion of subsidies in question compared with about $100 million of subsidies at its Canadian competitor. 
 Yet it was cautiously welcomed by Embraer, Latin America's largest aircraft maker, because the trade organization asked the company, together with the Brazilian Government, to make adjustments to the export-subsidy program instead of scrapping it altogether. The subsidies have helped Embraer emerge as Brazil's most successful company in foreign markets since it was privatized in 1994.
"It is clear that we will get less aid, as will Bombardier, so it is premature to declare a winner and a loser in this dispute," said Antonio Luiz Pizarro Manso, Embraer's vice president for finance. "What is also clear is that we have the continued support of the Government, which will enable us to fulfill our previous obligations."
Mr. Pizarro Manso said the trade organization's ruling meant that Embraer must halt the practice of using Government funds to help finance purchases of its aircraft abroad. The use of such help allows the company to provide financing at rates in line with those prevailing in major industrial economies, instead of the far-higher rates in Brazil.
Embraer is studying alternatives to allow it to continue selling planes to foreign companies. At the Paris Air Show in June, Embraer outshined competitors, winning roughly $6.2 billion in orders for jets that seat up to 90 passengers.
One alternative could be to work with suppliers for its jets, so that these companies provided part of the financing to the purchaser. "Embraer will certainly have to find another way to market its aircraft because the previous way was illegal," Michel Lord, Bombardier's vice president for communications, said in a telephone interview.
Investors reacted in a way suggesting that the ruling was a setback for Embraer. Its shares fell more than 5 percent here today, to 4.70 reais, or $2.57. In Toronto, the market was closed for a holiday. On Friday, Bombardier shares rose two-tenths of a percent.
The trade organization's ruling, which confirms an earlier decision, could have far-reaching effects in the regional aircraft market if Embraer's sales are hurt. Over the last five years, Embraer has become the fastest-growing manufacturer of small jets.
The market for such aircraft is expected to grow in a couple of decades to 8,000 planes from 5,100 today, said Robert Booth, a consultant with Aviation Management Services of Miami. "Embraer is the great success story of Latin America," he said. "I would see the Brazilian Government doing what it could to keep on defending it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Embraer of Brazil, along with Bombardier of Canada, was told by the World Trade Organization to reduce export subsidies. Workers at an assembly plant put final touches on a regional jet for American Eagle. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (97%); ERJ (NYSE) (95%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (97%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; BOMBARDIER INC; EMBRAER AIRCRAFT CORP BOMBARDIER INC (97%); EMBRAER SA (95%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; BOMBARDIER INC; EMBRAER AIRCRAFT CORP WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; CANADA; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) EXPORT TRADE (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



74 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Reform Party's New Leaders Are Planning New Direction

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

 BODY:
New leaders of the Reform Party say they are considering changes to their rules in an effort to recruit a Presidential candidate who would appeal to a broader spectrum of voters than the base of support established by Ross Perot.
After the election two weeks ago of a party chairman endorsed by Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, the party's power base shifted immediately from Mr. Perot's headquarters in Dallas to St. Paul, where the Governor's political aides are schmoozing potential candidates and planning a strategy for mounting a challenge to the two major parties next year. 
 One change the Ventura camp is contemplating is to move the selection of the nominee to the party's national convention next summer. Current plans call for a primary to be conducted by mail-in ballot, with the result to be announced at the convention. Any registered voter would be allowed to participate, and some in the party fear that could produce an unpredictable and possibly tainted result.
The mission to retool the party is urgent for Mr. Ventura's aides because they expect him to consider a Presidential campaign in 2004, and the Reform Party candidate must attract at least 5 percent of the vote in 2000 to preserve the party's Federal financing and its slot on many ballots. And several political scientists said the quality of the nominee would determine whether the party would last or follow the shooting-star life cycle of every other third-party movement in this century.
"Third parties can survive without winning elections, but they have to show they have a significant amount of support," said Ronald B. Rapoport, a government professor at the College of William and Mary who is writing a book about the Reform Party. He called the party's survival "an open question," saying, "They need a message, and they need a messenger."
Because Mr. Perot drew enough votes in 1996 for the party to qualify for Federal financing in the next election, the party's nominee will have $12.6 million to spend, making it a tempting backup for one of the major-party candidates who washes out. But none have expressed interest so far, and many political analysts said they were skeptical about the party's chances of finding a large following when voters seem satisfied with the economy and Government.
But Mr. Ventura's aides said they became optimistic about the Reform Party's future after the election of the new chairman, John G. Gargan, who had promised he would distance the party from Mr. Perot. Douglas E. Friedline, who was Governor Ventura's campaign manager and now handles his licensing deals, said the party would begin gathering petition signatures this fall to be sure it gets on every state's ballot, so it will be ready if a popular candidate decides to run under the Reform banner.
"Just by the calls I'm getting this week, I can see people are finally looking at the Reform Party as a viable alternative," Mr. Friedline said.
The party's national convention, held on July 23-25 in Dearborn, Mich., revealed a sharp mismatch in supply and demand for possible Presidential nominees. Delegates tried to whip up draft movements for big names who have said they have no interest in the party: Donald J. Trump, Ralph Nader and Gen. Colin L. Powell. But the candidates who came courting were unknowns like Jerry G. Beck, 60, a manufacturer of electrostatic filters from Windsor, Mo., who said his qualifications included his status as a 32d-degree Mason. Governor Ventura's strategists hope to open a middle road by grooming a machine that might appeal to someone like Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is seeking the Republican nomination and has so far turned aside Reform Party overtures.
The only seasoned politician who has publicly contemplated carrying the Reform Party banner next year is Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the former independent Governor of Connecticut. He said that the party remained "a fuzzy landscape" for a candidate, but that it had taken an encouraging first step in electing a new chairman.
"Like it or not," Mr. Weicker said, "they're the ball game as far as challenging the Republicans and the Democrats."
Mr. Gargan, a retired financial consultant known as Jack, said that in choosing a nominee, the party would look for a record of pushing issues like an overhaul of the campaign-finance system. "We're not going to take retread Democrats and Republicans who can't hack it with their own party and think we're going to be an easy mark," he said.
The old leaders remain in office until Jan. 1. But as an indication of how swiftly Mr. Ventura has seized his opening, reporters' calls for Mr. Gargan are now funneled through Mr. Ventura's campaign staff.
Mr. Gargan acknowledged the enormous financial and organizational problems the party faces when he declared at a news conference on the eve of his election, "The Reform Party is salvageable."
Some political scientists question that. Alan I. Abramowitz, a specialist in electoral politics at Emory University, said Mr. Ventura's ascension would do nothing to dispel the party's "flaky image," and pointed out that the country did not now have "the conditions to propel a strong third party or independent candidate, in terms of economic recession or widespread discontent with the status quo."
Dean M. Barkley, who was Mr. Ventura's campaign chairman, contends that party leaders now have a chance to sell the Reform ticket to candidates who would not have considered it before.
"We need to dispel these stories that we're nothing more than a hodgepodge of eight or nine groups and we don't agree on anything except that they don't like the status quo," Mr. Barkley said. "Now we can start marketing ourselves as a centrist, reform-minded party." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PETITIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; PEROT, ROSS JESSE VENTURA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



75 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Parched Eastern Farms Win A Promise of Federal Loans

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: FREDERICK, Md., Aug. 2

 BODY:
After the television reporters finished their stand-ups in the fields of stunted corn and the orating politicians departed the shade of the front porch, the Harshmans still had a drought on their hands and a farm crisis the family described as the worst since the Great Depression.
"What a lot of . . . spin -- that's the right word, isn't it?" the family's gray-haired matriarch, Janice Harshman, asked pleasantly as the clutch of Federal and state officials drove away toward Washington in a dry cloud of dust. 
 Speaking to about 40 troubled farmers gathered here for a news conference on the drought conditions that have bedeviled this region for three straight years, Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman today declared West Virginia and parts of Kentucky, Ohio, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia a drought disaster area, making low-interest Federal loans available for its farmers.
And President Clinton and Congressional Democrats, reacting to the drought's surfacing in Washington as a pressing issue, began proposing a broader package of emergency farm relief totaling $10.8 billion.
"Quietly, American farmers and ranchers are losing their businesses," Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, warned in Washington, noting that net farm income this year was 29 percent below the average of the last five years.
Here in Frederick, Mrs. Harshman's 41-year-old son, Vaughn, who played host to Secretary Glickman and other public officials, gratefully accepted their words in lieu of rain. Even so, he emphasized that the natural disaster of the drought, though painful, was only compounding and underlining American farmers' far more deeply rooted crisis: a world market glut and depressed prices.
"I sure don't need any more loans," Mr. Harshman said of the main immediate remedy offered by Mr. Glickman, adding that the Government should show as much alarm for the farmers' problems in world markets as it did today for the drought.
"We need a fair market and fair playing field," he declared, and his sister, Christie Brandenburg, agreed. "Loans won't do it," she said. "We need prices."
Down from the porch steps, other farmers said that while the general price decline in a wide array of produce might be their biggest problem, the water shortage was certainly an added burden.
"My pastures are nonexistent, just dried-up exercise yards for the livestock," said Glenn Eaves. He described already cutting into next winter's forage supplies for his 5,000 head of livestock, and said the financial damages would roll over well into next year, whether it rained soon or not.
If the drought news conference was sparking larger complaints about the general state of the farm economy, Secretary Glickman could only agree as he toured drought-ridden farmlands here and in West Virginia, where he accepted disaster aid requests from state officials.
"We've had four years of worldwide record crop produce," he noted, standing in a photo-op by a potted waist-high healthy soybean plant and a shin-high version wilted by drought. "That's never happened before in human history. You have a double whammy of low prices plus a natural disaster."
His hopes and prayers, the Secretary told the farmers, are for Congress to allocate emergency assistance along the lines of the $6 billion emergency appropriation, including direct grants, enacted last year when farmers in the Southwest were struck by drought.
In the face of the complaints today, Secretary Glickman also said the 1996 farm law that heralded an open world agricultural market in providing for a phaseout of subsidies "needs mending" to protect American farmers. "If you live long enough, you'll see the cycle of history come back and hit you," he declared.
Of the drought, Mr. Glickman said, "This thing will turn, I'm convinced of it." He joked that a Federal meteorologist using a cell phone at the rear of the crowd "was on the line with God."
Farmers in the audience here, far from banking on divine intervention, talked yearningly of a past when Government policy was built less around free-market vagaries and more around price supports to brace them through hard times. They laughed out loud when one speaker talked of possibly freeing up forage from Government conservation lands to help farmers.
"No way!" one farmer shouted. "That's all dried up!"
Drought-stricken counties in the East Coast farm belt, running up into central New York State, have been submitting requests through their governors for emergency agricultural assistance, Mr. Glickman said. While his immediate options center mainly on low-interest loans, he said that in the face of the drought, Congress would most likely consider a larger emergency package including direct grants, like the $10.8 billion proposal being discussed in Washington today. On Capitol Hill, there was no immediate estimate of such a proposal's chances of enactment.
The $6 billion emergency aid package last year included grants to farmers for crop and livestock damage from the drought as well as for lost income. "I don't know what we're going to end up with," Mr. Glickman said of the current Congress.
Maryland's Governor, Parris N. Glendening, who was one of the officials joining Mr. Glickman here, promised farmers $3 million in state aid, and emphasized that small and medium family farms were especially vulnerable to drought pressures while large corporate farms were better able to survive hard times.
"This is about farmers fighting with their families for survival," the Governor declared, warning that the alternative might be more farms plowed under for housing subdivisions.
"That's right," Mrs. Harshman agreed after the politicians trailed off through the family's parched fields. "The only option we're being left with is subdivision," she declared darkly, as if she were talking of the plague of spider mites that has swept across the soybean crop because of the drought.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vaughn Harshman on his Maryland farm, with corn that should be well over his head at this time of year. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Among the farms that were toured yesterday by Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, left, was this one at Charles Town, W.Va., where the Secretary was joined by the state's senior Senator, Robert C. Byrd. (Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FREDERICK, MD, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; KENTUCKY; OHIO; MARYLAND; WEST VIRGINIA; PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; DROUGHT; WEATHER; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING DROUGHT (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); DAMAGES (50%); 

PERSON: GLICKMAN, DAN (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TOM HARKIN (73%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



76 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Crew of Ukrainian Freighter Stranded in New York Harbor

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
For three and a half months, a Ukrainian freighter has been stranded in New York Harbor, her cargo holds and fuel tanks empty, her master awaiting orders that never come, her 26-member crew idle and recently unpaid, food and supplies dwindling -- a ship dead in the water, caught in a ghostly maritime limbo.
Riding at anchor in Gravesend Bay off Brooklyn, a mile southeast of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, the 458-foot merchantman, Banner of October, has repeatedly requested supplies from its owner's American representative but has received inadequate stores of food, water and medicine, and no shipping orders. 
 "I said to owners, please, please, people like eating," the master, Capt. Aleksandr Golub, 62, said in a shipboard interview last night. A seamen's welfare organization, alerted earlier by the Coast Guard to the ship's plight, had brought aboard an emergency two-day supply of chicken, beef, fruits and vegetables for the crew of 23 men and 3 women, all Ukrainians.
"It's bad," said Valery Ignatov, the seafarers' union representative, when asked about conditions aboard the weather-beaten black and red freighter, which had carried used cars and trucks from New York and Miami to the Dominican Republic and Haiti in recent years. "No food. No water. No oil. Pay late."
Captain Golub attributed the problems of his ship to the financial troubles of its owner, the state-run Azov Shipping Company, of Mariupol, Ukraine. He also attributed the suicide of his predecessor as ship's master to depression over company turmoil that had left the crew unpaid for more than a year.
The Coast Guard, which went aboard for a routine inspection on Saturday and found provisions running out, had known of the ship since Jan. 13, when Captain Ivan Kozlov, the previous master, was found hanged in his stateroom, off Sandy Hook, N.J., touching off a Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry that found no foul play.
Douglas Stevenson, a lawyer for the Seamen's Church Institute and its affiliated Center for Seafarers' Rights, nonprofit organizations that have long sought to protect the welfare of seafarers, went aboard last night to meet with the crew and said afterward that the Banner of October was only one of a half-dozen Azov ships that are stranded around the world, off Europe, Asia and Africa.
He said the crews of those and many other stranded ships had been caught in the backwash of recent years' economic turmoil in Ukraine, other former Soviet states and third-world countries whose troubled economies have affected shipping.
The Coast Guard said that Azov Shipping, based in a port on the Sea of Azov, connected by a narrow inlet to the Black Sea, is represented in the United States by Azov Shipping International, based in Secaucus, N.J. Captain Golub identified the company's local representative as Captain Vladimir Shamshin, who could not be reached at the company's offices last night.
Mr. Stevenson, who is also the director of the Center for Seafarers' Rights in New York, said he intended to go to Ukraine later this month to talk with government officials about the problems of vessels that have been stranded, abandoned or inadequately supplied by financially troubled shipping companies.
The plight of the Banner of October is not unusual. Merchant crews, especially those on ships flying so-called flags of convenience from nations that have lax health and safety standards, are often exploited by employers who force them to labor hard in dangerous conditions for low pay, Mr. Stevenson said.
A check of international commercial shipping that was reported in February found at least 10 ships, with crews totaling more than 200 members, that had been stranded in ports around the world, left by owners who could not, or would not, spend money for wages and for the maintenance and provisioning of ships that their companies considered temporarily or permanently unproductive.
The Banner of October, built in the Soviet Union in 1977, had been chartered for two-week trips carrying about 500 used vehicles -- trucks from New York and cars from Miami to Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic, and Port au Prince, Haiti. It usually returned to New York without cargo, Captain Golub said.
The ship's last voyage from the Caribbean ended in New York on April 13, the captain said, and since then, there have been no more shipments and no further orders. As the ship lay at anchor, various requests for supplies were made over the last three and a half months, he said.
One shipment -- a 22-day supply of food -- was received on July 1, and the captain said the crew had made it last until now, stretching it out over more than 30 days. The last pay was received in June, he said.
There was also no Freon for air-conditioning, he said, and the crew had to swelter though July's record-setting heat without coolants. Most remained below deck during the day to escape the heat and slept on deck at night to catch a breeze. The crew continued to maintain the ship, which the Coast Guard found to be well kept in its inspections, one last spring and another on Saturday.
"Things checked out O.K., except we were concerned about the amount of food they had on board," said John Hillin, a civilian who is the Coast Guard's official in charge of foreign vessels in the port.
He and Mr. Stevenson said the Ukrainian consul in New York had been notified and had pledged to contact Azov officials and try to resolve problems by getting funds to purchase supplies.
Captain Golub said that Captain Shamshin, the Azov official in Secaucus, had told him that the ship would be reprovisioned on Friday at a dock in Red Hook, Brooklyn, but he also noted that arrangements to pick up a cargo in the port today had fallen through and that no new cargoes had been lined up.
"All contracts are canceled, and they're just sitting there and don't know what to do," Andreas Krenz, a port chaplain for the Seamen's Church Institute, said after helping to deliver emergency supplies of food and water to the ship yesterday. "The fridge is actually empty, and they have just a little butter left and a couple of pieces of meat."
The ship's radio operator, Valery Kostenko, 33, was lounging in a day room last night with Anatoly Lichkatyn, 30, the fourth engineer. Both wore shorts, T-shirts and sandals and were watching a video of "Lethal Weapon," translated into Russian. Like other crew members, Mr. Kostenko spoke a broken English.
Asked about the supply situation, he said: "No provisions on the ship. No supplies."
Captain Golub added: "Nothing medicine also."
The crew had not been ashore since the ship arrived in New York Harbor three and a half months ago, the master said, but most of its members seemed last night to be less frustrated than glumly resigned to their situation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas Stevenson, above left, of Seamen's Church Institute, and Capt. Aleksandr Golub aboard the Banner of October, which is running out of supplies. Left, the freighter as seen from Brooklyn. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); HAITI (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AZOV SHIPPING CO AZOV SHIPPING CO (63%); COAST GUARD (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: AZOV SHIPPING CO COAST GUARD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE; NEW YORK HARBOR; UKRAINE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); HAITI (69%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; BANNER OF OCTOBER (SHIP) MARINE SHIPPING (90%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POULTRY (72%); INSPECTIONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SUICIDE (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; GOLUB, ALEKSANDR (CAPT) ALEKSANDR GOLUB (74%); DOUGLAS STEVENSON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



77 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Veterans Deserve the Best Care

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Audit of V.A. Health Care Finds Millions Are Wasted" (front page, Aug. 1): Other countries do not operate separate health systems for their veterans, because all their citizens are entitled to comprehensive health insurance and have access to the same public and private health care institutions. Probably because private health insurance in this country can be so easily lost, American veterans place their trust in the bogyman of American health policy: socialized medicine. 
 An alternative might be to give all who have worn this country's uniform -- or at least those who have risked combat -- a lifelong, tax-financed guarantee to the same private health insurance coverage and same good health care enjoyed by members of Congress. Higher-income Americans, who usually do not serve in the armed forces, owe at least that much to those who put their lives at risk for our country.
 
UWE E. REINHARDT
Princeton, N.J., Aug. 1, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of political economy at Princeton University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VETERANS ADMINISTRATION PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (81%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS ADMINISTRATION PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; VETERANS; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); VETERANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (87%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); 

PERSON: REINHARDT, UWE E (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



78 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Willie Morris, 64, Writer on the Southern Experience

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
Willie Morris, the writer and editor whose life and work reveled in the endless contradictions of the South and the region's ghostlike hold on its native sons and daughters, died on Monday at St. Dominic Hospital in Jackson, Miss., at 64.
The cause was heart failure, said a hospital official. 
 Mr. Morris, who turned his childhood in Yazoo City, Miss., into a place almost as complex and resonant as William Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha County, went from a country boy to a Rhodes Scholar to a literary Wunderkind, becoming editor in chief of Harper's Magazine at age 32.
But just as Truman Capote famously said that all Southerners eventually come home, if only in a box, Mr. Morris returned to Mississippi in 1980 and never stopped exploring what he once described as "the old warring impulses of one's sensibility to be both Southern and American."
He wrote on subjects ranging from his childhood English fox terrier in "My Dog Skip" to the intersection of football and race in "The Courting of Marcus Dupree"; hunkered down in his favorite Mississippi haunts like Doe's in Greenville, Lusko's in Greenwood and Bill's Greek Tavern in Jackson, and delved into the interplay of past and present that defines Southern life.
Still, rather than being merely a vivid interpreter of Southern life, Mr. Morris was someone ahead of his time in exploring the confluence of region and nation, and how the South's distinctive experience of race, family and history was so deeply a part of the nation's experience as well.
"Willie said that Mississippi is America writ large," said Richard Howorth, owner of Square Books, the literary haunt in Oxford, Miss. "And to understand Willie you have to know that he had this amazing knowledge of American history. And I think his understanding of the South and curiosity about the South was very much a part of his understanding and curiosity about America. He understood the South as only a Southerner could, but his perspective was so much broader than just thinking and writing about the South."
Willie Morris was born on Nov. 29, 1934, in Jackson. When he was 6 his family moved to Yazoo City, a town on the edge of the Mississippi Delta, which at roughly the same time nurtured figures as diverse as Mike Espy, later to become Mississippi's first black Congressman since Reconstruction and then Secretary of Agriculture; Haley Barbour, former national chairman of the Republican Party, and Zig Ziglar, the motivational speaker.
His father, Henry, ran a gas station, and Mr. Morris grew up in the teeth of the segregation era, in an environment he came to see as wondrous and horrific, where blacks and whites lived together in parallel universes that were utterly apart and intimately entwined. He played taps for the American Legion at military funerals, became a part-time sports writer for The Yazoo Herald and dreamed of ascending to the landed gentry who defined the social and economic overclass of the Delta.
But rather than send Mr. Morris to the University of Mississippi, his father had him go to the distant and alien environs of the University of Texas in Austin. He had, he later observed, no sense that "there were ideas, much less ideas to arouse one from oneself." But after two years of pranks and fraternity hi-jinks, he came to see that books could be, as he later put it, "as subversive as Socrates."
He became editor of the student newspaper, The Daily Texan, where he was asked to resign after the newspaper accused the Governor and state Legislators of colluding with oil and gas interests. After graduating, he went to Britain as a a Rhodes Scholar. Then he returned to Texas to edit The Texas Observer, a feisty gadfly publication.
He moved to California and then to New York, where he was hired at Harper's Magazine in 1963. In 1967 he became its youngest editor in chief ever and a major literary figure in a city he came to call "the Big Cave." He presided over one of the legendary eras in magazine journalism, hiring David Halberstam to write about Vietnam, Larry L. King to write about Washington, and printing a 45,000-word excerpt of William Styron's "Confessions of Nat Turner" and 90,000 words of Norman Mailer's "Steps of the Pentagon," about a Vietnam War protest march, which took up the entire March 1968 issue. Six months after becoming editor in chief he also published his autobiography, "North Toward Home," which was a memoir as social history that tried to make sense of the epic changes rattling through the South and what they said about the nation.
But after new ownership took over the magazine, Mr. Morris found himself at war with the management and resigned in 1971, and most of his staff members followed.
Mr. Morris lived and wrote for several years from Bridgehampton, N.Y.
In "North Toward Home" he wrote about how he felt as if "someone had taken some terrible weight off my shoulders" whenever he left the South.
Despite that, he decided to return home. He moved to Oxford as writer in residence at the University of Mississippi. He moved 10 years later to Jackson and spent his time evoking the clattering cacophony of warring emotions -- love, hate, chauvinism, despair and, above all, a sense of something unshakable -- that so many Southerners feel toward the region.
Mr. Morris is survived by his wife, JoAnne Prichard of Jackson, and his son, David Rae of New Orleans.
Not all of his work was critically praised. A 1973 novel, "The Last of the Southern Girls," received tepid reviews. And his memoir of his days at Harper's, "New York Days," struck some reviewers as conventional and nostalgic. But few doubt that he captured the South's transition from the days of segregation and the complexities of the Southern experience like few, if any, writers of his time.
"His work in 'North Toward Home' became a mantra for Southerners who fled the South seeking worlds where they could be free and open in their thought but could never escape the love-hate relationship all Southerners carry within them about the place of birth," said William R. Ferris, chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, and a longtime friend from Mississippi.
Mr. Morris drank too much bourbon and red wine, smoked too many Viceroys, stayed up too late and caroused too much. Indeed, friends have marveled at his ability to defy most of the conventions of good health. But, like his writing, his life style betrayed a singular personality, given to long, rambling evocative conversation, and the indelible stamp of his early days in Yazoo City. And friends and admirers say that whatever barbs he could fling at the South's failings were leavened by the degree to which he was, in the end, such a quintessential Southerner.
"Willie was such an honest voice, clear, vivid, never ambiguous," said David Sansing, a retired University of Mississippi historian. "I think people were willing to accept a lot of things from Willie because he didn't fuss at us or belittle us or demean us, because essentially he was one of us. The great thing about 'North Toward Home' is how well it showed how sometimes you have to leave a place to really see it. He had to leave the South to really confirm his own Southernness. But, of course, he came back. Richard Wright once said, 'I got out of the South. But I never got the South out of me.' Willie knew the same thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The writer Willie Morris found fodder in his Mississippi childhood, but also headed north in 1963 to work for Harper's Magazine. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (99%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (99%); JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); HOSPITALS (72%); DOGS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); HISTORY (65%); MAMMALS (58%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, WILLIE; APPLEBOME, PETER HALEY BARBOUR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



79 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Autonation to Shed Car Rental Businesses

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 2

 BODY:
Trying to raise a sagging share price, H. Wayne Huizenga announced today that Autonation Inc., the giant automotive retailer that he controls, would spin off or sell its struggling car rental businesses, which include National Car Rental and Alamo Rent-a-Car.
Much as the move might look like a retreat from Mr. Huizenga's vision two years ago of assembling an empire that would reap economies of scale by being involved in every stage of selling, renting and servicing new and used cars, he insisted in an interview that it was not a step back. 
 He explained that he hoped to preserve many of the advantages of a large-scale operation by writing a contract with the car rental groups before disposing of them. Under the contract, Autonation will continue to service many cars for the rental businesses and will continue to sell them some new cars, Mr. Huizenga said. He added that he hoped to spin off the rental operations to shareholders or sell stock in them to the public. He said selling the businesses to another company would be his last choice.
The goal of the plan is to increase Autonation's share price by making it purely an automotive retailing company, Mr. Huizenga said.
The move will be the latest in a flurry of changes at Autonation, which also named a new president today, Michael E. Maroone, a longtime Florida car dealer who until now has been the president of Autonation's car dealerships group. Autonation is also looking for a new chief executive with automotive experience to replace its current co-chief executives: Mr. Huizenga, who will remain as chairman, and Steven R. Berrard, who is leaving Autonation's management but will remain on its board. Mr. Huizenga said a new chief would be chosen within three weeks from among three finalists.
In April, Autonation spun off its garbage hauling business and changed its name from Republic Industries. Since 1997, it has also sold its home-alarm business and shifted its emphasis toward new-car retailing and away from used-car superstores and automobile repair shops. The pace of the changes has dismayed financial analysts, who say that the company should choose a strategy and stick to it long enough for its earnings to be better understood.
"It would be nice to see them settle down and put some numbers on the board and have a pure auto retailing business and not try to be re-creating the world at every turn," said Tom Thomson, an auto retailing analyst at First Union Capital Markets.
Autonation's shares rose 31.25 cents today to close at $15.25.
The stock is trading at a third of its level of two years ago. Wall Street was captivated then by Mr. Huizenga's vision of consolidating the automotive business as he had already consolidated the garbage hauling and video rental businesses by building Waste Management Inc. and Blockbuster Entertainment.
Autonation has become the world's largest seller of new cars, with 412 franchises and 42 used-car superstores. It earned $501.2 million, including a one-time gain of $379.3 million from disposal of the garbarge hauling business, on sales of $5.07 billion in the second quarter. It sold 119,000 new vehicles and 84,000 used.
Investor interest in the company has cooled as its profit margins have lagged behind those of some competitors, although Autonation said today that margins inched up in the second quarter.
Mr. Huizenga said he still believed Autonation would transform auto retailing. "Our vision is to change the way customers are treated, to change the way customers buy their cars," he said.
Autonation sells used cars at fixed prices and has said that it will gradually move its new-car dealerships toward the same policy. Though such sales are popular with consumer advocates, who accuse many traditional dealers of unscrupulous negotiating tactics, the policy allows rival dealers to take away business by slightly undercutting Autonation's fixed prices.
Investors have been turning to the stocks of companies that own only dealerships and are run by people with lots of automotive experience. Lithia Motors Inc., which is based in Medford, Ore., has thrived under the control of Sidney DeBoer, a car dealer since 1968. The United Auto Group, which has struggled under a succession of chief executives from outside the auto industry, has won friends recently on Wall Street with the pending sale of a 39 percent stake to Roger Penske, a prominent car dealer who also races cars and controls a diesel engine company.
Rivals like Mr. DeBoer have been skeptical that the highly competitive dealership business has room for new approaches like Mr. Huizenga's. "You're not going to come up with a new concept and turn the world over," Mr. DeBoer said today. "It has all been tried."
The car rental businesses that Autonation plans to dispose of include not only National and Alamo but also a third company, Cartemps U.S.A., which Mr. Huizenga created by buying and renaming two car rental businesses, Spirit and Thrifty, and merging them with Alasys, an affiliate of Alamo.
Autonation said today that its second-quarter operating income from car rentals fell to $30 million from $45 million a year earlier on revenue of $893 million, up 3.2 percent.
Mr. Huizenga, who made one fortune from Waste Management and another from Blockbuster, has many other investments. He sold the Florida Marlins baseball team after it won the World Series in 1997, but he still owns the Miami Dolphins football team and is chairman of a holding company that owns the Florida Panthers hockey team and some hotels. He is also chairman of Republic Services Inc., a garbage hauling company in which Autonation sold its remaining 63 percent stake in April.
Even as Mr. Huizenga has become more focused on selling new cars, the Ford Motor Company has begun following his example to some extent by trying to provide cradle-to-grave services for automobiles. Ford has formed partnerships with dealers to buy up all of the Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Mazda and Jaguar dealerships in half a dozen cities, and then set common prices at all the dealerships. Ford agreed this spring to buy one company that owns junkyards and another that sells extended-service contracts. And Ford is trying hard to increase sales of auto parts by encouraging dealers to do repair work at more competitive prices.
But Ford has run into other problems. Texas car dealers, for example, recently pushed a law through the state legislature banning manufacturers from owning dealerships. Autonation said today that it had signed an agreement to buy four Ford-owned dealerships in Fort Worth that the auto maker must sell.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the plans of Autonation Inc. to spin off or sell its car rental businesses misstated the history of the company's Cartemps U.S.A. division. It was formed through the acquisition of Spirit Rent-A-Car Inc. and Snappy Car Rental Inc., not Thrifty Inc., which is a unit of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc.
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: H. Wayne Huizenga, right, and Steven R. Berrard, co-chief executives, at headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1997. Mr. Huizenga will be chairman and Mr. Berrard on the board once a new chief is picked. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AN (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (96%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUTONATION INC; NATIONAL CAR RENTAL; ALAMO RENT-A-CAR AUTONATION INC (96%); JONES MOTORCARS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AUTONATION INC; NATIONAL CAR RENTAL; ALAMO RENT-A-CAR

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RENTING AND LEASING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUTOMOBILES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; AUTOMOBILES NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); USED CAR DEALERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (61%); 

PERSON: HUIZENGA, H WAYNE; BRADSHER, KEITH; MAROONE, MICHAEL E; BERRARD, STEVEN R H WAYNE HUIZENGA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1999



80 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Maestros, Insights and Intermission in the Sagebrush

BYLINE: By James R. Oestreich 

DATELINE: ASPEN, Colo., Aug. 2

 BODY:
A small town in which James Levine, James Conlon and David Zinman, to name only conductors (and only some of them), roam the streets at the same time? Salzburg, Austria, perhaps?
No, this town is smaller, though not nearly as small as it was even a decade ago. Indeed, as trendy shops proliferate, it begins to resemble the Upper West Side of Manhattan, as an old Aspen hand noted, though styles and prices run more toward Paris. 
 And a major factor in that growth is the Aspen Music Festival and School, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary with the help of those conductors and other figures central to its history. The summer season accounts for some 40 percent of Aspen's annual economy, a study by the University of Colorado, Boulder, which the festival likes to cite, found a few years ago, and summer in Aspen is closely tied to the festival.
The festival, too, continues to evolve. Having unveiled an impressive year-round chamber hall, the Harris Concert Hall, six years ago, it plans to open a new, redesigned concert tent next season to replace the 35-year-old one now in use, whose worn condition (added to inherent acoustical flaws) has been drippingly evident during a rainy summer the rest of the country might envy.
In addition, the festival has announced the creation of an American Academy of Conducting next year, conceived by the festival's music director, Mr. Zinman. But the academy may be hard put to improve on maestros who have already passed through the festival and school.
Mr. Levine, for one, was returning after a 23-year absence to conduct the Aspen Chamber Symphony on Friday evening and the Aspen Festival Orchestra on Sunday afternoon. Both orchestras combine professional players, in principal positions, with students.
The Sunday program consisted of Mahler's Third Symphony, which Ara Guzelimian, a former artistic administrator of the festival, neatly tied to the anniversary in a preconcert lecture. In its searching ambition, Mr. Guzelimian suggested, this grand paean to nature and ultimately to God (whether pantheistic, Jewish or Christian), shares the idealism of those who gathered here in 1949 to celebrate the Goethe bicentennial and ponder the task of postwar cultural reconstruction. Both the festival and the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies grew out of that meeting, the two tendencies being exemplified in the person of one person present, Albert Schweitzer.
Mahler's Third has long been a favorite work of Mr. Levine. When he conducted it a few years ago with the Philadelphia Orchestra, the "Parsifal" effect seemed to be setting in: what Mr. Levine loves, he tends to love to death (or rather, to a shimmering new life), lingering, savoring and caressing at ever greater length.
He added another wrinkle in Philadelphia, injecting an intermission after the first movement, citing Mahler's own precedent at the 1902 premiere (no matter that Mahler took 10 minutes, and a modern intermission is 25). He did the same here, and even more than in Philadelphia, the scale, intensity and eventfulness of the first movement justified -- all but demanded -- an intermission.
The knowledge that an intermission awaits may indeed encourage Mr. Levine to risk more. Here, at any rate, was a magnificent construct of a first movement, gaining momentum in the marchlike section leading into the great central climax, which was perfectly offset by its counterpart at the end. All of this emerged cohesively despite an interruption when a low-flying plane drowned out the music. The musical juncture was opportune, and Mr. Levine simply stopped, waited and picked up again.
The intermission had another advantage here, letting a listener wade hip-deep into sagebrush outside the tent and gaze in awe at majestic peaks receding into the haze toward Independence Pass: the very picture of what had just been heard in Mahler's nature study. And throughout, the wind riffling through aspen trees and whipping the tent flaps enhanced the sense of nature's presence.
Mr. Levine let the four inner movements breathe their more relaxed atmospheres (with Michelle DeYoung a lovely-toned mezzo-soprano and the Colorado Children's Chorus piping attractively but with the women of the Colorado Symphony Chorus sounding unfocused). Then he offered another model of sustained line in the finale, with layer upon layer building to a stunning conclusion.
The playing was, of course, no match for the Philadelphia Orchestra's; the horn players, in particular, struggled repeatedly, but what youngsters would not falter in such music, where professionals fear to tread? Youthful ardor, in any case, counted for more than plushness.
Mr. Levine, for his part, is often praised for the smoothness and polish he achieves, less often for the depth of his interpretations. Yet here, despite rough edges, he elicited one of the finest Mahler Thirds -- one of the finest Mahler interpretations -- this grizzled Mahlerite has heard.
Mr. Levine's other program -- the Bach-Webern Ricercar, Wagner's "Siegfried Idyll," Milhaud's "Boeuf sur le Toit" and Schubert's Fourth Symphony -- afforded less potential for imposing rhetoric, and pelting rain on the tent roof intruded loudly on much of the music. Still, Mr. Levine and the Aspen Chamber Symphony made much of these works, showing a mutual affection as obvious as that in the Mahler.
One event specifically celebrating the anniversary was Bernard Rands's chamber opera "Belladonna," commissioned for the occasion and performed on Thursday evening, with Mr. Zinman conducting. Mr. Rands and his librettist, Leslie Dunton-Downer, seemed focused not so much on a mere 50-year span as on the millennial scale, looking back to the elevated dinner conversation of ancient Greek thinkers and to the Last Supper and Passion of Jesus.
"We prefer to think of 'Belladonna' as music theater rather than opera," they write, but there is little that is truly theatrical, or in many cases even comprehensible, in this elaborate intellectual conceit. Set as a dinner party of five thoroughly modern women, its discussion of love veers from a high-flown scene presented all in Latin (with more Latin in supertitles) to a farcical sendup of opera. (Here, at least, the music mirrors the humor of the libretto, as it does not in earlier scenes.)
Interludes are larded with more Latin (three kinds in all, the authors point out), sung offstage without even the benefit of titles, and scarcely anything registers but the odd sexual swoon. Along with the farce, the presence of a falling-down drunk insures easy laughs, but it is hard to imagine what audience this farrago is intended to attract or will. Only the most literate listener with a taste for slapstick need apply, apparently, though the friendly crowd filling the Wheeler Opera House, a lovely little antique painstakingly restored, seemed to take its cue from the farcical aspects and cheered lustily.
In marked contrast, Mr. Conlon's master class for opera singers in the Wheeler on Saturday morning was all about communication. With intelligence, grace and humor, Mr. Conlon turned fine performances into potentially excellent ones, and indifferent performances into promising ones, making it all look easy.
Along the way he imparted insights, not only to singers but also to a rapt full house made up largely of civilians, on the rendering of texts in Italian and German; fine points of vocal technique, and sheer musical savvy. "Don't you cry," he said of singing Puccini and verismo generally. "Make them cry. Don't reflect too much on your own emotions. That's what turns it into kitsch."
He could have been talking just as well about Mr. Levine's Mahler. Musical ideas, like musicians, have a way of bumping into one another in this little town in the summer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Levine conducting the Aspen Festival Orchestra. (Bob Kreuger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ASPEN CHAMBER SYMPHONY; ASPEN FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASPEN CHAMBER SYMPHONY; ASPEN FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; FESTIVALS; ASPEN MUSIC FESTIVAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FESTIVALS (93%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); RELIGION (61%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, JAMES; OESTREICH, JAMES R JAMES LAWRENCE LEVINE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



81 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Europe Gets Back In Gear

BYLINE: By Norbert Walter; Norbert Walter is the chief economist of the Deutsche Bank Group.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
Europe is finally back on track. You don't see it much in the headlines yet, but watch for the strong seedlings of growth and reform to be springing up all over the European landscape. Most notably, after almost two decades of status quo politics in Germany, the Government is tackling some of the right issues to get the Continent's largest economy moving again.
Under the leadership of the new Finance Minister, Hans Eichel, the German Parliament is not just earnestly debating significant spending reductions, but also agreeing on sensible tax cuts. Germany's high tax rates have long deterred the world's investors. Under the proposed plan, corporate taxes would fall even below the level in the United States. 
 Other changes are falling into place. Take the financing of pensions. Europe's problems are far worse than those in the United States, because the large Continental countries have mostly unfinanced pension plans -- that is, today's employees have to pay for today's pension benefits, rather than accumulating and investing their pension contributions and drawing from them for their own retirements later, as in American 401(k)'s.
This pay-as-you-go system is badly inappropriate for Europe, where the graying of the population is more pronounced than in the United States and where early retirement is common.
Under those circumstances, it is encouraging to see that Walter Riester, Germany's Labor Minister, who used to be a top official of Germany's most militant union, has proposed to establish a supplementary account outside of the state-supported social security to boost the private component of retirement savings. This type of savings account, held in the name of the individual, is also under discussion in the United States as part of the debate on the privatization of Social Security.
There surely are going to be rear-guard battles to limit the extent and speed of the proposed sensible reforms. But already you can see the mood changing in critical places. For instance, on the front pages of Germany's liberal newspapers, the erstwhile promoters of a bloated state sector (which translated into ever higher taxes) are withering away.
What did the trick? The younger generation in Parliament is fast moving into leadership positions. And these lawmakers' 30-something colleagues in journalism are increasingly writing editorials strongly in favor of reform and against the paralyzing status quo.
After a timid start, Germany's Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, has developed a more finely attuned political ear. His left-leaning Government has just started a pro-reform advertising campaign, which is squarely directed at its core constituencies, mainly workers, public employees and retirees. "There are no alternatives" to reforming Germany "from top to bottom," the campaign warns.
The good news spreads well beyond Germany. Italy, too, is tackling pension reform. France is undergoing bruising mergers in the oil, banking and chemical industries. And, in a remarkable departure from past practice, French corporate executives have supported foreign ownership and influence in French stock markets. The Socialist Government has actually accelerated the sale of state-owned companies.
In many European countries, business confidence is rising for the first time in a long while. The new common currency, the euro, has risen appreciably in recent weeks, after falling for the first six months after its introduction.
In assessing the brightness of Europe's prospects -- and hence the shape of the world economy -- the importance of turning Germany around cannot be overstated. After all, Germany accounts for about a third of the gross domestic product of Euroland (consisting of the 11 nations now sharing the euro). A dynamized Germany will have a stimulating effect on the rest of Europe.
Since the Reagan era, Americans have pushed Europe to embrace market reforms. At long last the message has been heard. The United States should welcome this revival of the Europeans' competitive juices. For too long it has been the lone engine of global economic growth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Janusz Kapusta)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (87%); PENSION REFORM (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US 401K PLANS (74%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LIBERAL MEDIA (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (56%); 

PERSON: WALTER, NORBERT GERHARD SCHRODER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



82 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Index Predicts Growth Will Last Into 2000

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The United States economy is poised to keep growing at least through the first half of 2000, leaving it on track for achieving the longest expansion ever, according to an important gauge of future activity.
The Conference Board said yesterday that its Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which is intended to help spot turning points in the economy, rose three-tenths of a percent in June, to 107.7. That matched the May increase and means that the indicator has posted gains in eight of the last nine months. The last decline, in April, was one-tenth of a percent. 
 The longest economic expansion in the nation's history lasted for 106 months, from February 1961 until December 1969. The current expansion, which began in March 1991, would match the record if it continues through January 2000 and pass it if it lasts until February.
"The expansion is firmly on track," said Michael Boldin, director of business cycle research at the Conference Board. But because of concerns that the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates again to fight inflation "some volatility can be expected in the second half of 1999," he said.
Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index rose in June. The most significant increases came in manufacturers' new orders of consumer goods and materials, in money supply, and in the difference between long-term and short-term interest rates.
In a sign, however, that the labor market may not be heating up enough to push up wages, a crucial component of the inflation picture -- the average number of hours worked a week by production workers -- was unchanged.
The Conference Board's index of current economic activity rose four-tenths of a percent, to 124.6 in June. But its lagging index decreased four-tenths of a percent, to 108. The indexes are calculated from a base of 100, set in 1992.
"Taken together, the three composite indexes and their components show a very health economy," the Conference Board report said.
Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis, noted that other recent reports show that economic growth is slowing. Last week, the Commerce Department reported that economic growth has slowed to an annual rate of 2.3 percent in the second quarter from 4.3 percent in the first three months of the year.
Yesterday's figures came as investors were trying to predict whether the Fed would raise short-term interest rates for a second time this year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks leading indicators, an index of 10 indicators designed to predict overall economic activity, since 1998. (Source: The Conference Board)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"
Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from May to June.
 
Average workweek of production workers in manufacturing
Contribution to Index: Unch.
 
Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*
Contribution to Index: +0.02
 
New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation
Contribution to Index: +0.08
 
Vendor performance (companies receiving slower deliveries from suppliers)
Contribution to Index: +0.04
 
New orders for non-military capital goods, adjusted for inflation
Contribution to Index: -0.04
 
New building permits issued
Contribution to Index: +0.03
 
Index of stock prices
Contribution to Index: +0.01
 
Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation
Contribution to Index: +0.07
 
Spread between rates on 10-year Treasury bonds and Federal funds
Contribution to Index: +0.07
 
Index of consumer expectations
Contribution to Index: +0.02
 
*Series is inverted in computing index; that is, a decrease in the series is considered upward movement.
(Source: The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); HISTORY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



83 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Renewing Trade Benefits for Vietnam

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
The House today renewed limited economic ties with Vietnam for another year, a week after Washington and Hanoi reached a tentative trade accord that brings Vietnam a step closer to full trading privileges with the United States.
The vote was 297 to 130 to endorse President Clinton's waiver of a 1974 law. It allows American companies that do business with Vietnam to receive limited Government benefits like loans and guarantees from the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. 
 Vietnam is not eligible for broader trade privileges like lower taxes on Vietnamese goods shipped to the United States until Congress approves a bilateral trade pact. After three years of negotiations, the two countries reached an agreement in principle last week that could be presented to lawmakers in the fall.
Trade between the two countries is relatively small. Vietnam ships $650 million worth of goods to the United States each year. American companies send $350 million in products to Vietnam.
The outcome today was widely expected, and it was viewed by supporters as a steppingstone in the path of improved relations between the United States and its erstwhile enemy. Mr. Clinton capped the efforts by lifting the United States trade embargo on Vietnam in 1994 and establishing diplomatic relations with Hanoi in 1995.
Legislators drew on many of the same arguments they wielded last week, when the House renewed full trading privileges with China. That vote was 260 to 170.
Supporters of broadening commercial ties with Vietnam, and granting the waiver today, argued that engaging Vietnam gave Washington more leverage on issues like improving human rights and resolving the remaining cases of missing American servicemen in Vietnam.
"Americans must realize conclusively that the war with Vietnam is over," Representative Douglas K. Bereuter, Republican of Nebraska, said. "Emotional scars remain with many Americans. But it's time to get on with our bilateral relationship."
Critics contended that Vietnam had not fully cooperated in accounting for G.I.'s who were missing in action, persecuted its citizens for their religious beliefs and hampered the emigration of opponents of the Communist Government.
"The average citizen in Vietnam must still pay $1,000 in bribes -- three times an annual salary -- for access to U.S. immigration programs," said Representative Loretta Sanchez, a California Democrat whose Orange County district has one of the largest concentrations of Vietnamese people in the United States.
The debate paled in contrast to the fight over trade with China, but it evoked powerful emotions from many veterans. Representative Sam Johnson, a Texas Republican who served seven years in a Vietnamese prison after his Air Force jet had been shot down, urged rejection of the waiver.
The lawmakers voted on a waiver to the Jackson-Vanik Amendment to the 1974 Trade Act, which requires annual voting on renewing trading rights for countries that limit emigration.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (71%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TRENDS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); AIR FORCES (68%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (56%); BRIBERY (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); LORETTA SANCHEZ (58%); SAM JOHNSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



84 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Cut $2 Billion From Clinton Foreign Aid Plan

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
A $12.6 billion foreign aid bill was passed by the House today but faces a White House veto threat over its deep spending cuts and anti-abortion language.
After three days of debate, the House took nearly $2 billion out of President Clinton's request for the coming year. The State Department called the spending provided in the measure "grossly inadequate." 
 The final vote was 385 to 35.
The bill withholds $500 million that the Administration sought for help in carrying out the latest Middle East peace accords, reached last year at the Wye River Plantation in Maryland. It also cuts $200 million requested for a program of interest-free loans to the world's poorest countries.
The bill also contains an amendment cutting off funds for any foreign group that performs abortions or advocates liberalizing its country's abortion laws. The Senate's foreign aid bill, passed last month, does not include the anti-abortion provisions.
The two foreign aid bills must now be reconciled in a House-Senate conference. Even though most House Democrats voted for the spending bill, many say they will oppose it in the final form unless some of the cuts are restored.
The foreign aid bill serves primarily as a vehicle for financing American allies and American aims overseas and occasionally as a means of questioning or quarreling with the White House and its conduct of foreign policy.
The House bill, like the Senate's, which was passed on June 30, contains $2.88 billion in military and economic aid for Israel, $2 billion for Egypt and $325 million for Jordan.
It makes significant cuts in the White House budget requests for the Peace Corps, the Agency for International Development, the Export-Import Bank, economic development aid for North Korea, and peacekeeping operations.
It provides $725 million for the independent republics of the former Soviet Union, but that is $307 million less than the President sought, and half of the aid to Russia would depend on Moscow's ending its cooperation with Iran on nuclear power and ballistic missile programs.
The bill contains $626.6 million for the World Bank and its subsidiaries. The House cut $200 million by withholding the sum from the World Bank's International Development Association, which provides loans without interest to the least-developed nations of the world.
All told, the House bill includes $7.4 billion in economic aid, $3.6 billion for military assistance, $1.1 billion for various international agencies and $596 million for export aid.
Last week the House also adopted an amendment to the bill that cut off money for recruiting and transporting Latin American military officers to the Army's School of the Americas in Fort Benning, Ga.
The vote, which surprised even the amendment's supporters, was an unusual act for the Republican-controlled Congress. It struck at an institution long criticized by the left for the training it has provided to its students. The ranks of its graduates include Manuel Noriega, the deposed dictator of Panama; the late Roberto D'Aubuisson, a far-right politician and reputed death-squad commander in El Salvador, and other unsavory exponents of the cold war in Central America.
The Senate bill retained the financing for the School of the Americas.
A separate spending bill to provide money for the State Department, which is scheduled to reach the House floor later this week, will raise the issue of whether the United States should pay the $1 billion in dues that it owes the United Nations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (77%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (65%); WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (77%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ABORTION INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); ABORTION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); ARMIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



85 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Annual Cost of Treating Gunshot Wounds Is Put at $2.3 Billion

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS 

 BODY:
Gunshot wounds cost the nation $2.3 billion a year in medical treatment, and almost half that sum is paid for with taxpayers' dollars, a study by a group of economists has found.
The study, being reported today in The Journal of the American Medical Association, used data collected in 1994 to calculate the expense of treating the 134,445 gunshot wounds reported during that year. The total did not take into account other costs, like those of mental health treatment for victims or lost days of work. 
 Because the study was so large, said the paper's chief author, Dr. Philip J. Cook of Duke University, it gives the clearest picture to date of both the financial impact of firearms violence and of who is paying the bills.
"Because almost half of the cost is paid for by the government," Dr. Cook said, "it is clear that even though many people feel that gun violence is essentially someone else's problem, it is really everybody's problem."
Dr. Jens O. Ludwig of Georgetown University, a co-author of the report, said it suggested that programs to curb firearm violence might be worth the expense, by reducing costs in the long run.
In their study, the researchers drew information from 10 large databanks, including hospital stay and discharge figures, outcomes of emergency room treatment, and reports on the cause and outcome of the most expensive of gunshot damage: spinal injuries.
The average cost of a gunshot wound that brings the victim to a hospital is $14,600 for emergency care and $35,400 for lifetime medical care resulting from the shooting, the study found. The researchers established an annual total cost of $2.3 billion by adding all the emergency care expense for 1994 to a figure, arrived at by formula, reflecting that year's share of lifetime medical costs.
Of the $2.3 billion in total annual medical costs, $1.1 billion, or 48 percent, was paid by taxpayers through Medicaid, Medicare, workers' compensation and other government programs, the researchers said. About 33 percent was paid by the wounded themselves or other people, and about 18 percent was paid by private medical insurance.
Wounds that resulted from assaults with firearms, as opposed to accidents or suicide attempts, accounted for three-quarters of the total cost, the study found. In addition, the data showed that while only about 2 percent of gunshots resulted in spinal cord injuries, such cases accounted for half the total cost of gunshot wounds.
Because the study is the largest and most complete of its kind, it is likely to figure in policy debates on gun violence in America.
In a telephone interview, Paul Blackman, research coordinator of the Institute for Legislative Action at the National Rifle Association, said that although the cost identified in the study might seem large, "put in perspective it is only one-quarter of 1 percent of the nation's $950 billion medical costs, and in that way seems less burdensome."
Mr. Blackman also said that others had estimated the portion of the nation's gunshot medical bill paid by taxpayers to be much higher. So the new, more detailed figures, he said, might lower concern about how much of the burden the public is carrying.
Dr. Cook, meanwhile, said he and his colleagues were now working on an estimate of society's total costs, beyond just medical expenses, attributable to gun violence.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; FINANCES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH GUNSHOT WOUNDS (94%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (93%); SHOOTINGS (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); FIREARMS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (79%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MEDICAID (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SUICIDE (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (61%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (56%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J; COOK, PHILIP J (DR) PHILIP J COOK (76%); PAUL BLACKMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



86 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
With Billionsin New Issues Due, Treasuries Fall for a 4th Day

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell for a fourth session yesterday as $52 billion of planned debt sales and concern about a rate increase by the Federal Reserve sapped demand for Treasuries.
The sales include a $5 billion issue from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. this week and a projected $37 billion from the Treasury next week. 
 "I don't see a lot to get real bullish about," said Robert Smith, who helps oversee $525 million at Sage Advisory Services Ltd. in Austin, Tex. "We're not very optimistic."
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 5/32 yesterday, to 87 23/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.16 percent from 6.12 percent late Monday.
Not everyone rushed to sell, though. By noon, $20.7 billion of Treasury securities had been traded, which was down almost 52 percent compared with the average Tuesday in the third quarter of 1998, according to Govpx Inc., which supplies information on prices and trading.
Treasuries may have a tough time recovering losses while investors wait to see whether the Fed raises interest rates at its next policy meeting on Aug. 24.
In June, the Fed lifted its target for overnight loans between banks -- the Federal funds rate -- a quarter-point, to 5 percent, in an attempt to restrain the economy.
The Government's July jobs report on Friday may show whether there are any signs of a cooling down. Economists expect, on average, a gain of 206,000 new jobs and a drop in the unemployment rate to 4.2 percent from 4.3 percent. The chance of a rate increase may reduce buyers' appetite for the new debt, analysts said.
Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, is expected to price its bonds this week.
Fannie Mae, the largest provider of United States home mortgages, plans to sell $3 billion of five-year global bonds as early as some time this week. It also expects to sell $500 million of its 30-year bonds, adding to $1.5 billion it offered in May.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (85%); IAP (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WAL-MART STORES INC (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); ICAP PLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



87 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Pay More Attention to Asia, Quayle Says

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Former Vice President Dan Quayle said today that the United States should pay more attention to Asian affairs and develop a stronger relationship with India.
Speaking at the National Press Club, Mr. Quayle, a Republican Presidential candidate, said American foreign policy had been tilted toward Europe but the rise of Asia made it imperative that the United States pay more attention to that region. 
 "Asia is much more important today than it was a generation ago," Mr. Quayle said. "We do have to treat Asia economically, politically, militarily and diplomatically as we do Europe."
Mr. Quayle contrasted his foreign policy experience with that of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who leads all Republican Presidential candidates in the polls and in fund-raising.
"On Day 1, I'll be ready to be President," he said. "I don't believe we need another President who has inexperience when it comes to foreign policy. There's only so much you can get from briefings and briefers and crash courses when it comes to foreign policy."
Mr. Quayle said he wanted to bring China into the World Trade Organization eventually and see the country move toward democracy. But he warned that some experts liken China to the Germany of 100 years ago, which was then defeated in two world wars before becoming a solidly democratic nation.
The United States should make it clear that it plans to remain a power in Asia, Mr. Quayle said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (97%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PRESS (72%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDIA; UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (97%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: QUAYLE, DAN GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



88 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

World Wrestling Federation Plans an Initial Offering
World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, the company that promotes and stages the most popular wrestling events, including Wrestlemania, plans to raise up to $175 million by selling a minority stake in the company in an initial public offering.
The company, which produces television shows like "W.W.F. Smackdown," has cashed in on the public's taste for increasingly outrageous competitions. Wrestling dominates the rankings of cable television shows, and those high ratings have produced stellar financial results. Market Place. Page A1. 

Stocks End Mixed With the Dow Up
Stock prices ended the day mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 31.35 points, to 10,677.31, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.87 points, to 1,322.18, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 35.64 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,587.99. C12.
 
Bond prices dropped for a fourth session as demand was dampened by $52 billion of planned debt sales and concern over interest rates. The yield on the 30-year issue rose to 6.16 percent from 6.12 percent. C12.
 
U.A.W. Prepares for Contract Talks
Seeking to reassure its members that it is taking a hard line in labor talks, the United Automobile Workers union, led by its president, Stephen Yokich, plans to hold strike authorization votes at all Ford factories on Aug. 17 in preparation for the expiration of national contracts with all auto makers in September. The union holds such votes every three years at all the auto factories it represents, just in case union leaders need to call a national strike if talks break down. A strike this year seems unlikely, most labor and auto officials say. C2.
 
Bill Limits On-Line Liquor Sales
The House overwhelmingly passed a bill that would restrict on-line liquor sales, overriding objections from California lawmakers that the proposal favored liquor wholesalers over small wineries and breweries trying to broaden their reach through the Internet. A14.
 
Debt-for-Stock Swaps in China
Faced with more than $200 billion in bad debt at moribund state-owned companies, Chinese officials said that they would begin a broad program of debt-for-equity swaps that could include some foreign ownership. C4.
 
A Place for Women on the Go
A Web site started by a well-traveled woman for other women offers clear organization and no-nonsense tips. Business Travel. C11.
 
Loss Narrows at Global Crossing
Global Crossing, which is buying long-distance phone company Frontier for about $12.9 billion, sharply reduced its loss in the second quarter. The company, which is based in Bermuda and is building a worldwide fiber optic network, said its loss narrowed to $4.2 million, compared with $193 million in the period a year earlier. Shares of Global Crossing fell $1.875, to $38.125. C9.
 
More Bad News at Waste Concern
Warnings continue at Waste Management, which now says it might restate first-quarter earnings, lowering them by $55.4 million. The company also said that second-quarter adjusted net income rose 53 percent, in line with lowered expectations. C2.
 
S.E.C. Discloses 26 Fraud Cases
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that its second nationwide sweep against small-company stock fraud had resulted in enforcement actions against 82 people and companies in 26 cases that bilked investors of millions of dollars. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,677.31 up 31.35
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.16% up 0.04
The euro -- $1.068 down 0.001
The dollar -- 115.28 yen up 1.06
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Factory Orders
June figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
Expected: +0.3%
 
Graph tracks daily closing price of Global Crossing shares since Tuesday, July 27.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WWE (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711320 PROMOTERS OF PERFORMING ARTS, SPORTS & SIMILAR EVENTS WITHOUT FACILITIES (59%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (59%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); BERMUDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD WRESTLING ENTERTAINMENT INC (59%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); BERMUDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); WRESTLING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (87%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); WOMEN (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BONDS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); STRIKES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (67%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); WINERIES (64%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (62%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); BREWERIES (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



89 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Strong July and Rebates Position Auto Makers for Record Year

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Auto makers dangled rebates in front of their customers last month, and like fish to bait, buyers snapped up new cars and trucks. That led to a brisk annual sales pace of 17 million vehicles and kept the industry on track for a record-setting sales year.
The General Motors Corporation, which was virtually shut down by a strike in June and July last year, saw its sales jump 62.6 percent in July compared with figures in the bleak period a year earlier. Car sales jumped 68.2 percent, while sales of minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks rose 57.2 percent. Part of the sales increase was a result of generous rebates and discounted financing deals that G.M. began offering on July 15 on nearly every 1999 model. The deals are good through September. 
 DaimlerChrysler sales rose 10.1 percent, with car sales plunging 14.6 percent while sales of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans increased 20.1 percent. Sales of its sport utility vehicles rose 36 percent, and sales of the Jeep Grand Cherokee jumped 62 percent after the company offered generous rebates.
"It is unquestionable that the industry is going to see a record year," said James P. Holden, executive vice president for sales and marketing at DaimlerChrysler.
The Ford Motor Company's sales rose 1.4 percent in July compared with figures in the period a year earlier, with car sales jumping 11.3 percent and sales of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and minivans dropping 4.8 percent. Figures exclude Volvo's car operations, which Ford bought in March. During last year's strike, G.M. had low truck stockpiles, so many buyers chose Ford trucks instead. That artificially propped up Ford's truck sales last year, making them hard to beat this year.
"We believe there are three major factors driving record consumer demand in the U.S.," said Robert L. Rewey, Ford's group vice president for marketing, sales and service. "First, favorable economic fundamentals. Second, prices for new cars and trucks have been stable while incomes and household net wealth have increased. Third, innovative products."
But the high level of rebates, which make cars cheaper for consumers but less profitable for auto makers, has worried some on Wall Street along with auto analysts in Europe. Auto stocks plunged last week after DaimlerChrysler reported that it spent more than expected on incentives and cut into its second-quarter profits. "Our stock price got slammed," Mr. Holden said. But he insisted that whether incentives were offered to customers through rebates, cheap lease deals, discounted financing rates or by forgoing price increases, "everybody's doing it in some fashion."
July's sales showed that the incentives are helping prop up the market, analysts said. "Pricing isn't great, but volume is," said Nicholas Lobaccaro, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.
In the first quarter, for instance, DaimlerChrysler spent an average of $1,284 a vehicle on rebates and other incentives, the company's co-chairman, Robert J. Eaton, said last week. For the second quarter, the company spent an average of $1,345. But by the end of the second quarter, that figure had risen to $1,470, where Mr. Eaton said he expected it to remain in the third quarter.
G.M. refused to disclose how much it spent on incentives but acknowledged that spending rose in the second quarter compared with the year-earlier period.
Ford also refused to disclose per-vehicle incentive costs but said that in the first quarter its total marketing costs in the United States amounted to 10.9 percent of its gross revenue. In the second quarter, marketing costs climbed slightly, to 11 percent of gross revenue from 10.9 percent in the year-earlier period.
Each auto maker blamed the others for high incentives and insisted that it was spending less than its rivals. "Our net price retention has been higher than Ford or Chrysler," said Michael DiGiovanni, executive director of G.M.'s business decision support center.
DaimlerChrysler begs to differ. "Our incentives for the Chrysler brands are still significantly lower than our domestic competition any way you cut it," said Mr. Holden, who added that by some measurements Ford and G.M. incentives were $500 a vehicle higher than his company's.
Economists said that auto makers had been unable to raise prices and had even effectively lowered them by offering rebates because there are more auto factories than demand for their products. Despite the beginnings of a turnaround in Asia, "it still is an industry struggling with excess global capacity," said Diane Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation in Chicago.
Some analysts said they were not too alarmed at the high level of incentives because auto makers are cutting costs enough to keep their profits strong. "Yes, incentives are higher than they've ever been, but profitability per unit is higher than it has ever been," said Wendy Beale Needham, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Other large auto makers posted especially strong results. Toyota's sales rose 13.8 percent; Honda's sales increased 7.9 percent, and Nissan Motor's sales jumped 14.3 percent.
But a giant stumbled. G.M.'s market share stalled again last month, this time at 28.4 percent despite the company's generous rebates. The results are particularly troubling because G.M.'s executives said they had been expecting better.
Just two weeks ago, J. Michael Losh, G.M.'s chief financial officer, said that the company's market share was poised to increase. It ended the second quarter at 29.5 percent of the United States market, down 2.1 percentage points from the quarter a year earlier. But Mr. Losh noted that the company's share had topped 30 percent in June. "We expect the share to continue to improve as we go through the balance of the year," Mr. Losh said then.
Instead, it continued to slide.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in July"
Chart shows statistics for various car sales during the month of July. (Source: Ward's Auto Info Bank)(pg. C2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; VANS; REBATES; INDUSTRY PROFILES MOTOR VEHICLES (98%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); STRIKES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN JAMES P HOLDEN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



90 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Trading Is Mixed as Internet Shares Fall Sharply Again

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed yesterday, but traders said investors remained extremely skittish about high valuations and the direction of interest rates.
"Investors are very nervous right now, and rightly so," said Bill Allyn, head of listed trading at Jeffries & Company. "We have been talking about valuations for months, and now it is finally hitting home." 
 Internet stocks, the epicenter of speculative activity for much of the year, took another hard hit.
TheStreet.com's Internet index fell 20.96, or 3.9 percent, to 519.07, pulled down by stocks like America Online, Yahoo and CMGI. The index has fallen nearly 35 percent since it peaked on April 12.
Interest rate worries pulled down the Nasdaq composite index, which fell for the fourth consecutive session. Big declines in Unum Provident, the insurance company, and Charles Schwab, the big discount brokerage house, dragged down the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, and small stocks slumped. But the Dow Jones industrial average managed to move up, largely on strength in Hewlett-Packard and Procter & Gamble.
"This is not just an isolated day," said Bob Gasser, head of United States equity trading at J. P. Morgan Securities. "It is a lot tougher for the market to deal with rising interest rates than with good corporate earnings."
Mr. Gasser and other analysts said the market was likely to remain in a highly unsettled state until at least Friday, when July employment data are scheduled to be released.
The Federal Reserve Board, which meets Aug. 24 to debate whether it should raise short-term interest rates, is likely to pay close attention to that report.
By the close, the Dow Jones industrial average had risen 31.35, or three-tenths of 1 percent, to 10,677.31. The Standard & Poor's 500 index closed at 1322.18, down 5.87, or four-tenths of 1 percent. The Nasdaq composite lost 35.64, or 1.4 percent, to 2587.99. And the Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks fell 6.35, or 1.4 percent, to 436.28.
The pace of business quickened a bit from Monday but still remained fairly subdued. Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 734.9 million shares. On the Nasdaq stock market, just over a billion shares changed hands.
Much of the action yesterday was focused on Internet stocks.
Early in the day a number of Internet shares rallied on reports that Yahoo was in negotiations to buy Excite@Home. But those rumors were quashed by George Bell, Excite's president.
Yahoo, which dipped lower on the initial reports, fell further later. The stock closed at 125 3/8, down 6 15/16. The stock has lost nearly half its market value since early April.
Stocks of Internet brokerage firms, which have also been beaten up recently, were battered again after Bill Burnham, an Internet analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, issued a report saying the companies might see their first-ever decline in trading volume, in the third quarter, because of weakness in the Internet stocks their companies favor.
"To see growth in negative territory is significant, but not earth shattering," Mr. Burnham said. "I was surprised the stocks sold off as much as they did" after the report was released.
Schwab, the largest on-line brokerage firm, fell 4 11/16, to 37 3/4. E*Trade Group fell 4 5/16, to 24 11/16; Knight/ Trimark Group lost 4 7/32, to 37 1/32, and Ameritrade Holding dropped 2 3/4, to 21 1/4.
America Online, the world's largest Internet service, continued its slump, with the stock falling for the fourth session, shedding 4 1/16, to 88 13/16. Since April 6, when it peaked at 175 1/2, the stock has fallen nearly 50 percent. And CMGI, the Internet venture capital company, fell 6 7/16 yesterday, to 81 7/8.
"The good news from this summer's selling of Internet shares is that the bears will be hard pressed to still call this a bubble market," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "At this point, the easy money appears to have been made in Internet stocks."
Pressure on these stocks extended to new issues. Four new Internet offerings were priced yesterday: 1-800-Flowers.com, Quotesmith.com, Bigstar Entertainment and Splitrock Services Inc. All closed below their initial offered price.
Elsewhere, Unum Provident fell 15 5/16, or 30 percent, to 36 3/8, after the company, one of the nation's largest disability insurers, said that second-quarter earnings fell because of costs associated with the June merger that created it.
Qualcomm was the biggest loser on the Nasdaq, falling 12 1/2, to 140. The stock slid after Motorola said it would make semiconductors for phones to compete with Qualcomm.
Among Dow stocks, Johnson & Johnson gained 2 1/4, to 94 3/16 after an analyst at J. P. Morgan upgraded his recommendation on the stock to "buy."
Proctor & Gamble gained 3 9/16, to 93 11/16. And Hewlett-Packard rose 3 3/4, to 108 1/2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); TST (NASDAQ) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); UNM (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS525120 HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (86%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); THESTREET INC (57%); AOL INC (57%); UNUM GROUP (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ONLINE TRADING (74%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



91 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1889 words

HEADLINE: Even a Sky Can Have Limits;
Financing and Other Problems Crimp Space Industry's Growth

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 3

 BODY:
The promise of the space business was shown recently when Hughes Electronics announced a $1.5 billion investment from America Online to deliver Internet service via satellite.
The pitfalls of the space business were seen the same day when Hughes disclosed, much more quietly, problems in manufacturing satellites that would require it to write off $125 million and take a big quarterly loss. 
 It was only the latest in a series of setbacks for Hughes, the unit of the General Motors Corporation that is the nation's largest satellite company. Last year one of its satellites failed in orbit, knocking out paging service for most of the nation. Another Hughes satellite blew up when a rocket exploded. The company's assistance to China in analyzing launching failures has placed it under criminal investigation for violation of national security laws. And the resulting furor in Washington forced Hughes to forfeit a $450 million contract for an Asian satellite system.
As Hughes goes, so goes the satellite industry. Rarely, it seems, has an industry been blessed with so much potential and cursed with so many problems. Manufacturing glitches and rocket failures have made it more difficult and costly to get satellites into the sky. Tighter export controls in the wake of the controversy about technology leaks to China are slowing projects.
"The events of the last year have created higher hurdles for the companies to get the work done," said Clayton Mowry, executive director of the Satellite Industry Association, a trade group.
Perhaps the biggest current problem the industry faces is that confronting Iridium L.L.C. The Washington-based company, which owns a 66-satellite system offering worldwide mobile telephone service, has failed to attract subscribers and is struggling to stave off bankruptcy. Indeed, just today, Iridium acknowledged that the Chase Manhattan Corporation contends it has defaulted on an $800 million loan. Iridium and Motorola, its biggest investor with an 18 percent stake, deny the contention. Page C8.
All these problems have taken some of the bloom off the commercial satellite business, which has only recently surpassed the government-owned satellite market in size. Investors are growing wary of pumping billions of dollars into systems to provide phone service or high-speed data transmission. Many projects will be scaled back, analysts say, or might never get off the ground.
ICO Global Communications, which is developing a satellite-based phone service to compete with Iridium, failed to raise the $500 million it sought from a public rights offering -- despite extending the deadline twice. It is now scrambling to complete a deal with unnamed investors. In an example of how tightly knit one company's fortunes are tied to others in the industry, should ICO fail, Hughes, which is building the satellites for it, could have to write off as much as $500 million.
And the Boeing Company has shelved plans to buy control of Ellipso, another company planning a satellite phone system.
Even so, Mr. Mowry and other executives and analysts shrug off the difficulties as short-term issues. "I don't think the problems we're facing today are any more severe than the industry faced after the Challenger explosion," said Michael T. Smith, the chairman of Hughes, which is based in El Segundo, Calif.
"This is a risky business, and we've never said anything but. But it's also high reward."
Robert B. Kaimowitz, an analyst at ING Baring Furman Selz, was even more upbeat, saying, "Everything in the industry is going great right now." He expects the global industry to grow 12.8 percent a year.
Indeed, both Boeing and Lockheed Martin, the nation's two biggest aerospace companies, are trying hard to move into commercial satellite communications, which is potentially faster growing and more profitable than military contracting.
Boeing is developing a satellite system to provide Internet service to airline passengers. And Lockheed Martin's new global telecommunications division, is trying to buy Comsat for $2.7 billion and has joined with the TRW Corporation and Telecom Italia to develop Astrolink, a $3.6 billion satellite system to deliver Internet service and high-speed data.
If anything, some recent technical problems satellite companies have run across seem to have been caused by a rush to fill orders. "The development capability is stretched to the thinnest," Mr. Smith of Hughes said. "We had gotten to the point where we skipped tests, and that's not wise."
In the last year, six well-publicized rocket failures prompted inquiries by the Pentagon and by Lockheed and Boeing, which made the rockets. There have also been "more in-orbit satellite failures than we have been used to," said Rick Hauck, president of Axa Space, a space insurance underwriter in Bethesda, Md.
Hughes had component failures in six orbiting satellites in the last year, though only the paging satellite failed completely. Lockheed Martin posted a second-quarter loss, in part because orders for satellites dropped and component defects caused a six-month manufacturing delay.
Launchings are also being postponed. Arianespace, the European launch company, was supposed to have supervised six launches so far this year but has handled only two because the satellites are not ready.
Still, the biggest money is not in building or launching satellites, but in services using them; that is where most investor attention is focused.
For example, despite its satellite problems, Hughes's share price -- it trades as a tracking stock, G.M.'s class H stock -- has held steady because of its DirecTV division, which delivers dozens of digital channels to 18-inch home dishes by satellite. Cai von Rumohr, an analyst at S. G. Cowen & Company, estimates that the domestic DirecTV business is worth $50 a share, many times the worth of the satellite manufacturing operations. Hughes shares closed today at $53.6875.
And shares of DirecTV's rival, the Echostar Communications Corporation, a service company not held back by satellite manufacturing, have soared from a 52-week low of less than $9 to $88.25 last month, though they closed today at $71.50.
Neither DirecTV, which has 7.5 million customers, nor Echostar, which has 2.6 million, is profitable yet. But each is adding 100,000 subscribers a month and is on track to move into the black in a year or so.
Indeed, the satellite TV business seems to have clear skies ahead. Through mergers, the industry has already shrunk from five players to two. And broadcasting -- one-way transmission from a single source to many receivers -- is well suited for satellite technology. A satellite in orbit 22,300 miles above the Earth can beam its signal to much of the nation, the way a spotlight widens as it gets farther from its source.
Conversely, the satellite-based telephone business has not yet gone through a consolidation. And using a broad beam to carry phone conversations, which go between two points, does not seem to make as much sense. Moreover, the calls are two-way; the phones must transmit to the satellite as well as receive.
Thus, the Iridium failure is more serious than the industry's recent technical problems because it raises questions about the fundamental demand for satellite services.
Iridium's system, which cost $5 billion, is intended to allow calls to or from anywhere in the world. But Iridium, which began service in November, had only 10,300 subscribers at the end of March, far short of the 52,000 called for in its agreements with lenders.
Even before today's dispute with Chase, Motorola had said it would not provide Iridium more money unless other backers do. The company is hustling to restructure its finances and avoid bankruptcy or liquidation.
Iridium has suffered from technical glitches and marketing errors. Its phones are bulky compared with cellular phones and initially cost about $3,000. Calls cost around $7 a minute. And because an uninterrupted line of sight is needed between the phone and the satellite, Iridium calls can be made from the top of Mount Everest -- but not from inside buildings or cars or even on city streets near tall buildings.
Moreover, cellular service has spread rapidly since Iridium was conceived. Standards now enable some phones to be used in more than one country, reducing the need for satellite phones.
Iridium has slashed the price of phones to less than $1,000 and the price of service to about $3 a minute, and its executives hope for a turnaround. "In the last six months we were in a trial launch mode when we told the whole world we were in full commercial launch," said John Richardson, the chief executive.
Rivals are betting many billions of dollars that Iridium's failure is the result of poor execution, not lack of demand. Globalstar Telecommunications, a company backed by Loral Space & Communications, plans to begin service in September.
Globalstar and some other planned satellite phone services intend to serve not only business executives but also remote villages in the developing world not now reached by wires. Even if residents in these villages cannot afford phones of their own, a phone booth can be set up in the village center.
"There are 3.5 billion people who don't have any communication in a modern sense," said Bernard L. Schwartz, chairman and chief executive of both Loral and Globalstar, calling this "probably the largest market in the world today."
Globalstar recently arranged a credit line of $500 million, securing the financing to begin service. Its stock has done relatively well, even as Iridium's has collapsed and ICO's has dropped by half since its initial offering last year.
Globalstar's phones will initially be priced at $1,100, and air time will sell for only about 65 cents a retail minute. An ING Barings report says that since Globalstar and ICO will have more capacity than Iridium, Globalstar could break even selling service wholesale for 14 cents a minute and ICO for 23 cents, compared with $1.37 for Iridium.
Similar questions about demand are facing companies that plan to deliver high-speed data and Internet service by satellite. The biggest gamble is made by Teledesic, a company backed by Craig McCaw, the cellular telephone magnate, and Bill Gates. Teledesic plans a $10 billion system of 288 satellites, to begin in 2004. Despite its Iridium problems, Motorola is Teledesic's prime contractor and has committed $750 million to it. Over all, Teledesic has raised more than $1.5 billion.
But satellite services are racing against cable and phone companies to provide high-speed Internet access. Phone and cable companies have an economic advantage in urban areas, while satellites probably have one in less dense areas.
Teledesic also faces competition from less costly systems, some of which will be in operation before it is. Those include Hughes's $1.5 billion Spaceway, the Lockheed-led Astrolink, and the $4 billion Skybridge, backed by Alcatel of France. Teledesic, though, says its system will provide Internet service quality unavailable from the others.
With such sums being wagered, one thing is certain. As Mr. Schwartz of Loral put it: "It's a large business. Our failures are going to be large. Our successes are going to be large."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hughes spacecraft depicted above and the Lockheed Martin rocket at right are part of a satellite business that has come of age. But its future relies on the popularity of the services the technology makes available. (International Launch Services)
 
Graphs: "Big Birds"
The worldwide commercial satellite business, largely devoted to telecommunications, has recently surpassed government expenditures on orbital space operations. American companies, for example, are now launching more satellites than the United States. But the commercial ventures now face more scrutiny, as investors worry that some projects may fail financially.
 
Graph plots the size of industry*, for Government satellite operations and commercial revenues for the satellite business, from 1970 through a projected 2000.
 
*Excludes China
 
Graph plots the number of commercial and Government satellite launches, from 1989 through 1998
 
(Sources: Futron Corporation; Federal Aviation Administration; Aerospace Industries Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; HUGHES ELECTRONICS BOEING CO (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (71%); IRIDIUM LLC (66%); AOL INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; HUGHES ELECTRONICS FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SATELLITES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INDUSTRY PROFILES SATELLITE INDUSTRY (94%); SPACE INDUSTRY (92%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (91%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SATELLITE BROADBAND SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PAGING (75%); DATA TRANSMISSION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



92 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6
 
North Korean Missile Alters Asia Dynamics
North Korea's preparations for the test launching of a new long-range missile this month have caused a dramatic change of course in defense strategy and diplomacy for both Japan and South Korea. While Japan is considering stretching the constitutional limits on its military, South Korea is beginning to overcome deep suspicions of Japan and consider ways to cooperate in the face of a common threat. A1
 
Test-Ban Ratification Urged
The failure of the United States and other nuclear powers to ratify an international treaty that bans nuclear testing undercuts decades of arms control and is making the world much less safe, says a report by nuclear arms experts commissioned by Japan. A6 

Indonesia Vote Made Official
President B. J. Habibie of Indonesia officially accepted the results of a Parliamentary election on June 7. The move ends nearly two months of delays and squabbling by elections officials. The party of his main challenger, Megawati Sukarnoputri, had finished first, with nearly 34 percent. A4
 
House Passes Foreign Aid Bill
A $12.6 billion foreign aid bill was passed by the House but faces a White House veto threat over its deep spending cuts and anti-abortion language. After three days of debate, the House took nearly $2 billion out of President Clinton's request for the coming year. The State Department called the spending provided in the measure "grossly inadequate." A3
 
Cambodian's Trial Delayed
The Cambodian Government moved to postpone a trial for a Khmer Rouge commander, Ta Mok, endorsing a law that would extend his pretrial detention period to three years from six months. The proposed law, which would apply to people charged with genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity, was endorsed by the two leading parties and is due for a vote in Parliament next week. A4
 
Death Toll Climbing in India
Rescue workers continued to pry the dead from railroad cars that were crushed on Monday in a head-on collision in eastern India. So far, 258 bodies have been recovered, and some officials fear that the death toll will climb to 400. A4
 
Vietnam Trade Ties Renewed
The House renewed limited economic ties with Vietnam for another year. The vote, 297 to 130, came a week after Washington and Hanoi reached a tentative trade accord that brings Vietnam a step closer to full trading privileges with the United States. The vote to endorse President Clinton's waiver of a 1974 law allows American companies doing business with Vietnam to receive limited Government benefits. A6
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A8-16
 
G.O.P. Reaches Accord On $792 Billion in Tax Cuts
Republicans reached general agreement on their $792 billion tax-cut plan. The measure, which includes a reduction of each income tax rate by one percentage point, is expected to lead to a veto showdown with the White House. A1
 
Limits for Children's TV Viewing
The American Academy of Pediatrics for the first time has laid out a plan for how pediatricians and parents can deal with television. The academy said that television viewing could affect the mental, social and physical health of young people. A1
 
$16 Million for Zapruder Film
A Federal arbitration panel announced that the Government must pay the heirs of Abraham Zapruder $16 million for his film of President Kennedy's assassination. A1
 
Emergency Aid for Farmers
Republicans and Democrats struggled over sending emergency aid to American farmers. The Republicans tossed aside the Democrats' plan in favor of their $7 billion package, which could pass as soon as today. A14
 
U.S. to Allow More Cuba Flights
The Administration announced that it would permit direct charter flights to Cuba from New York and Los Angeles. But the ban on visits by American tourists remains in place. A8
 
Solar Panels for Polluted Sites
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson today will unveil the first step in a project to use solar panels at polluted sites to make much-needed electricity without disturbing buried contaminants. A8
 
Limits for On-Line Liquor Sales
The House overwhelmingly passed a bill to restrict on-line liquor sales. The bill passed despite objections from California lawmakers that it favored liquor wholesalers over small wineries and breweries. A14
 
Sugar Intake Guidelines Sought
A coalition of leading health experts and organizations asked the Food and Drug Administration to require that food labels provide more information about added sugar and to set a recommended daily intake. A9
 
Gunshot Wounds Cost Billions
Gunshot wounds cost the nation $2.3 billion in medical treatment each year, and almost half that sum is paid for with taxpayers' dollars, a group of economists reported. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
State Spending Bills Finally Get a Vote
The Legislature began passing a $73.3 billion state budget. The budget, which was four months overdue, provides large increases in aid to schools and child care for the poor, and makes none of the cuts originally sought by Governor Pataki. A1
 
Plan to Commit Mentally Ill
Governor Pataki and legislative leaders have agreed on a plan that gives the courts new authority to hospitalize mentally ill people against their will. New York is now set to join nearly 40 other states that have enacted similar laws. B1
 
Police Lawsuit Filed
A former New York City deputy police commissioner who investigated complaints of workplace harassment filed a Federal lawsuit in which she claims that she was forced from her job after resisting pressure to revise a report that criticized a high-ranking police official. B1
 
Attica Award Overturned
A Federal appeals court panel overturned a $4 million award stemming from the bloody Attica prison rebellion in 1971, and chastised a lower court judge and the State of New York for allowing a suit filed by more than 1,281 inmates to drag on for 25 years. The $4 million verdict was awarded to a former inmate in 1997. B3
 
EDUCATION B8
 
ARTS E1-12 
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Expansion Ahead for C.B.A.
Isiah Thomas agreed to buy control of the Continental Basketball Association for $10 million. He hopes to expand it from nine teams and turn it into the minor league of the National Basketball Association. D1
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Rudy Burckhardt
An artist and a friend of artists whose career connected several generations and esthetic factions of the New York School, he was 85. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
W.W.F. Seeks Stock Offering
World Wrestling Federation Entertainment said it would seek to raise up to $175 million by selling a minority stake in the company, which produces such television shows as "W.W.F. Smackdown." A1
 
Strong Sales for Auto Makers
Auto makers saw a brisk 17 million annual sales pace last month fueled by rebate offers and the industry is on track for a record sales year. C1
 
Tobacco Deal Announced
British American Tobacco said it would buy the 58 percent stake of Imasco of Canada it does not already own for $6.8 billion. The deal reflects British American's goal of displacing Philip Morris as the world's largest cigarette maker. C1
 
New Burger King Ad Campaign
Burger King is replacing its old advertising strategy of featuring flame-broiled burgers in commercials set to trendy music with humorous spots that poke fun at the lengths to which the chain will go to guarantee customer satisfaction. C1
 
Stocks Close Mixed
The Dow rose 31.35 points, to 10,677.31, the S.& P. 500 closed at 1,322.18, down 5.87 points, and Nasdaq lost 35.64 points, to 2,587.99. C12
 
Business Digest C1
 
DINING F1-16
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: A dubious campaign ruling; Mrs. Clinton's reflections; reforming special education.
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E6
 
TV Listings E12
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather A16
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); VIET NAM (94%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); INDIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); VIETNAM (79%); 

STATE: EAST INDIA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); VIET NAM (94%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); INDIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); VIETNAM (79%); EAST INDIA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); TAX RELIEF (83%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); VETO (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); WAR CRIMES (68%); GENOCIDE (65%); ABORTION (65%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (63%); INCOME TAX (60%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



93 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Cut Taxes? First, Cut the Deficit

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank (Op-Ed, July 31) takes as a given that a certain level of "bad" spending by government is acceptable so long as it includes "good" spending on worthwhile projects. How much waste is Mr. Frank willing to tolerate? Twenty percent? Fifty percent? Or would he go even higher for something particularly dear to his heart? 
 This is essentially the philosophy that has given us a $5.6 trillion national debt that will consume almost $230 billion this year in interest payments. Arguing about the amount of a tax cut while this huge debt still exists, as the Democrats and Republicans are doing, is like arguing about which water bucket to use while your house is burning down.
If we can't pay down the deficit when economic times are bad, and we won't pay down the deficit when economic times are good, when are we going to rid ourselves of this fiscal albatross?
 
MARY EILAND
Brooklyn, July 31, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); LEGISLATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); 

PERSON: EILAND, MARY; FRANK, ROBERT H ROBERT H FRANK (85%); MARY EILAND BROOKLYN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



94 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Cut Taxes? First, Cut the Deficit

 BODY:

To the Editor:
With Social Security projected to have a large long-run deficit, the President has proposed giving some general revenues to Social Security. Instead, the Republicans want to cut taxes, giving the bulk of the tax cut to the wealthy (front page, July 31). 
 After such a tax cut there would not be general revenues left to give to Social Security. To maintain Social Security benefits, it would become necessary to increase the payroll tax.
Without admitting it, the Republicans are thus proposing to increase the payroll tax in order to cut the income tax for the wealthy. Or possibly they propose to decrease Social Security benefits to give the wealthy that cut.
 
PETER DIAMOND
Lexington, Mass., Aug. 2, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INCOME TAX (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); CORPORATE TAX (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: DIAMOND, PETER (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



95 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL BRIEFING;
Take the Money And Narrow the Field

BYLINE: By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
It is an old political ploy for incumbents: raise enough money early enough and possible challengers will think twice before taking you on.
Which probably helps explain why Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who got a bit of a re-election scare back in 1994 from a well-financed candidate, has been raising money for more than a year for his seventh re-election bid, in 2000 -- even though no challenger is yet in sight. 
 So far, Mr. Kennedy reported on Monday, he has pulled in almost $2.5 million, much of it in Massachusetts, but much from other states, too, a measure as much as anything of the national stature he has achieved by pushing a broad spread of social and economic issues.
If the money ploy works, Mr. Kennedy will be more than just home-free. He will be free to travel all over the country, using his huge fund-raising and crowd-drawing ability to help raise campaign cash and support for Democratic senators, or Democratic candidates running for the Senate, who face strong Republican opponents.
This being politics, what goes around comes around. Those Mr. Kennedy helps today will be those who help him tomorrow.
The system works the same way at the state level, of course, which helps explain why Gov. Gray Davis of California, a Democrat who has been in office seven months and does not face re-election for three more years, reported on Monday that he had already packed his campaign kitty with more than $8 million.
Election officials in the state say that in his first six months in office, Mr. Davis collected more money and held more fund-raising events than any other newly elected governor in California history.
Such prodigious raising of campaign cash may very well drive off all potential challengers, or it may enable Mr. Davis to build up a hugely handy reservoir of good will with fellow Democrats. But, in the meantime, he is catching a lot of flak.
Republicans and some public interest groups say Mr. Davis runs the risk of becoming too cozy with special interests who are major donators. Democrats say they wish he would spend as much time in Sacramento pushing the party's stalled legislative agenda as he does scouring the state for money.
The Governor's response to the Republicans is that he is his own man. His response to Democrats is that he does what he does only to help the party.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN) TED KENNEDY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



96 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: LEADERS OF G.O.P. REACH COMPROMISE ON A TAX-CUT BILL

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Republican leaders completed work tonight on a revised tax-cut proposal, adopting a new approach to cutting income taxes as they prepared for a showdown with President Clinton.
After a marathon negotiating session in private, leaders from the House and Senate said they had settled on a common plan that draws from the tax bills passed in both chambers over the last two weeks but that adds some new twists. 
 At its heart is a reduction of one percentage point in all income tax rates. Under the plan, the current 15 percent income tax bracket, which is the lowest, would be reduced gradually to 14 percent starting in 2001. The current 28 percent bracket would gradually be reduced to 27 percent, and the top rate of 39.6 percent would decline to 38.6 percent.
The Republican plan also includes a reduction in the top rate on capital gains to 18 percent from 20 percent. It would provide a tax break for many married couples, and would phase out the inheritance tax on large estates.
Over all, the plan would cut taxes by $792 billion over the next decade. Republicans said they were intent on pushing the measure through both chambers by the end of the week, giving the party a chance to send a clear message about its priorities as the nation debates how best to take advantage of projected Federal budget surpluses.
"It's a happy day for the American taxpayer," said Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. Archer announced the deal along with Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, after nearly 36 hours of negotiations.
Mr. Clinton has promised to veto the bill, because he says the Republican plan would risk a return of Federal budget deficits, disproportionately favor the wealthy and leave too little money for Medicare, the military, education and other programs.
Democrats in Congress, who were excluded from the negotiations, said the tax plan was nothing more than a plank in the Republican campaign platform for 2000.
The Republicans, said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, were primarily interested in "writing their talking points for why the President is a Scrooge for vetoing this Christmas-in-July package of tax cuts."
The package is likely to win strong support from conservative Republicans in both the House and the Senate.
But some of the provisions, particularly the one-percentage-point reduction in all income tax rates, alienated some moderate Republicans in the Senate, raising questions about whether the party would have enough votes to pass the measure.
"Things aren't looking very good from our perspective, and our understanding is that other moderates are having similar problems," said Nicholas J. Graham, a spokesman for Senator John H. Chafee, a moderate Republican from Rhode Island who has said he favors a smaller tax cut.
Aides to several of the four Democrats who had voted for the Republican bill in the Senate said they would also have trouble with any new plan that reduced all income tax rates because such an approach would give a bigger tax cut to those in upper income brackets than to those in lower brackets.
To deal with objections from moderate Republicans in the House who said the plan risked the nation's fiscal health, the new plan makes the full reduction in the income tax rates contingent on there being no increase in interest payments on the Federal debt.
As under the Senate plan, the tax cuts would phase out after 10 years, a limitation imposed by a procedural rule that Republicans could not sidestep.
Assuming that they can pass the final bill this week, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, plan to sit on the legislation until after Congress returns from its summer vacation in September and then send it Mr. Clinton for the promised veto.
But the Republican leaders are under some pressure from their own members to adopt a less confrontational strategy and to seek negotiations with the White House before forcing a showdown.
Saying that forcing the issue now would probably "lead to a hardening of positions that could imperil any possible negotiated agreement later in the fall," Senator Olympia J. Snowe, a moderate Republican from Maine, urged Mr. Lott today in a letter to seek a cooling-off period over the next month followed by talks with the White House.
Republicans released only the broad outlines of their deal tonight.
Aides to Mr. Archer said the proposed reduction in the top capital gains tax rate to 18 percent would apply to all transactions starting with Jan. 1 of this year. They said the plan would also eventually allow for capital gains to be indexed for inflation, meaning that increases in the price of a stock or another asset would be subject to capital gains only to the degree that they exceeded the inflation rate.
Mr. Archer said the income tax reduction would account for about $320 billion of the total $792 billion in tax cuts. That is less than under the original House plan, which called for a reduction of 10 percent in all income tax rates, but more than the original Senate plan, which called for a one-percentage-point reduction only in the current 15 percent bracket.
Mr. Archer said the new plan would allocate about $100 billion over 10 years to addressing the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that leaves many two-income couples paying more in taxes than if they were single.
Under the plan, the standard deduction for married couples filing jointly would increase to twice the standard deduction for single filers, and the amount of income subject to the 15 percent income tax rate for couples would increase to twice the amount for single people.
The deal also included one of Mr. Roth's main priorities, an increase in the maximum allowable contribution to Individual Retirement Accounts to $5,000 from $2,000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Nicholson, chairman of the Republican Party, second from left, conferred with other Republicans after the party caucus yesterday afternoon on Capitol Hill on the negotiations over the tax-cut bill. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A14); Representative Bill Archer of Texas led Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware out of Mr. Archer's office last night after they and other Republican leaders reached agreement on a tax cut. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; MARRIAGES TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX RELIEF (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (87%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); MEDICARE (70%); MARRIAGE (67%); CHRISTMAS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (89%); CHARLES B RANGEL (59%); BRUCE NICHOLSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



97 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Aid to Farmers Puts Parties In 'Political Bidding Contest'

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Locked in what one Senator called a compassion competition, Republicans and Democrats struggled today over sending billions of dollars of emergency aid to American farmers.
Democrats littered the rhetorical landscape of the Senate with images of Dust Bowl days and the Great Depression, but they lost a bid to add a $10.8 billion package of emergency aid to the annual agriculture spending bill. 
 Republicans tossed that proposal aside in favor of their own $7 billion emergency package, which they would finance by dipping into next year's projected budget surplus. They showed through procedural maneuvers late today that they had the votes to pass it, probably on Wednesday.
"We're competing to show our compassion," said Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas. "It's a political bidding contest here. You're seeing figures made up on both sides of the aisle."
Vice President Al Gore came to the Capitol to argue the Democrats' case for more aid, saying that conditions were ripe for "the worst crisis our farmers have ever experienced," and that Republicans were "pretending that this tremendous suffering out in farm country is not taking place."
The minority leader, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said "a silent death in rural America" was killing off farms and destroying farmers' livelihoods. He said that 2,000 farmers in his state had given up tilling the soil in the past year and that their farms now lay fallow, creating scenes "the likes of which we have not seen since the Great Depression."
But Senator Gramm questioned just how grim the plight of American farmers was today. He said the Senate was proposing "spending vast sums of money when we have no documentation of the magnitude of the problem."
There is plenty to suggest that farmers are hurting. International markets for their goods have shrunk, particularly in Asia, and prices for most agricultural products have plummeted this year.
But the pain and the politics have little to do with heat and drought, despite the designation of both parties' aid packages as emergency assistance, which allows them to set aside the spending rules and take the money out of next year's much-anticipated budget surplus.
There is an argument over how deep the suffering is. Net farm income will fall less than 1 percent this year, to $43.8 billion after this fall's harvest from $44.1 billion in 1998, the Agriculture Department estimates. That includes more than $12 billion in direct Federal payments to farmers.
Some of the economic pain may be self-inflicted. Despite the drought in many parts of the country, American farmers are growing far more grain than they can sell, which helps drive prices down. Nearly a billion bushels of wheat, half the American harvest, will find no market this fall.
"Were having a hard time giving it away," said Tom Buis, a vice president of the National Farmers Union.
Mr. Gore, in a brief speech just off the Senate floor, fueled a competition between the political parties to see who could appear more generous to farmers -- some of whom work the soil of Iowa, the scene of the first Presidential caucuses next winter -- as he chided Senate Republicans for their farm policies and fiscal programs.
"Here we have the biggest surpluses in the history of the world," Mr. Gore said, "and that bunch in control in there is trying to blow it all on a risky tax scheme while the whole farm sector of our economy is on the verge of absolute bankruptcy."
The sponsor of the Republican aid package, Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, agreed in an interview that "overproduction, not just here but all over the world" is part of what plagued American farmers. Nonetheless, he said, the need for aid exists.
Of the $7 billion in the Cochran bill, $5.6 billion would come in the form of direct payments to farmers under the system Republicans created in 1996 to replace the farm-subsidy system long controlled by Democrats. Much of the rest would come in subsidies intended for livestock and dairy farmers, soybean and oilseed producers and growers of peanuts and beet sugar.
Mr. Cochran suggested that the need was not as urgent as the Democrats argued and that the aid could wait until the next fiscal year begins on Oct. 1.
Farmers are still spending some of the $6 billion that Congress lashed together as part of a last-minute $21 billion emergency spending bill in October.
If the emergency package wins the Senate's approval, the House would have to consider similar legislation.
"I would be very supportive of it," said Representative Larry Combest, the Texas Republican who heads the Agriculture Committee. "Seven billion dollars -- you can't sneeze at that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore pondered an answer to a question on legislative procedure yesterday as Senators Tom Harkin, left, and Tom Daschle motioned to give him time. The Senate was debating legislation to provide billions of dollars in emergency aid to farmers. (Paul Hosefros /The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FARMERS UNION MUTUAL INSURANCE SOCIETY LTD (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (72%); SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DROUGHT US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM TOM DASCHLE (88%); AL GORE (73%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



98 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: 2 WARY NEIGHBORS UNITE TO CONFRONT NORTH KOREA ARMS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Aug. 4

 BODY:
North Korea's preparations to test a new long-range missile this month have led to a dramatic change of course in military planning and diplomacy for Japan and South Korea.
Japan is considering stretching the constitutional limits on its military, while South Korea is beginning to overcome deep suspicions of Japan and consider ways to cooperate in the face of a common threat. 
 Japan has agreed to take part in a missile-defense system that Washington is developing that would use rockets to shoot down incoming missiles. And Japan is speeding its plans for a satellite surveillance system.
Most surprising is Japan's decision to consider providing its largely toothless air force with airborne-refueling and attack equipment that would enable its F-15's to retaliate against North Korea.
Although older North Korean missiles are already able to strike parts of Japan, public concern over the new test is relatively recent. In a poll published today in the newspaper Yomiuri, 70 percent of respondents said they were worried about a war.
Seoul, which lies within easy range of the North's existing missiles and artillery, has already indicated its desire to build missiles capable of reaching much of North Korea.
Under a 1979 agreement, South Korea must obtain Washington's consent to build missiles with a range of more than 112 miles. But last week Defense Secretary William S. Cohen indicated that Washington would work with Seoul to overcome that limit, which could be accomplished if South Korea joined the Missile Technology Control Regime.
Through high-level visits and a cascade of statements aimed at the North Korean Government, Washington has sought to dissuade it from going ahead with the test while reassuring allies in the region.
The message is that by launching a new missile with an estimated 3,700-mile range -- enabling it to hit Alaska or Hawaii -- North Korea has nothing to gain and everything to lose.
Still, this activity shows that in the short and medium term, Washington and its allies suffer a dearth of options in dealing with perhaps the most isolated and unpredictable country.
Secretary Cohen seemed to acknowledge as much during a news conference here last week. Referring to the carrot-and-stick approach, he said, "We are prepared to work with North Korea to open economic and political opportunities, and North Korea should seize this chance to build a new and positive relationship."
"A refusal to show restraint," he said, would result in "stalling or indeed stopping potential cooperation."
Speaking in Seoul last week, Mr. Cohen said the United States would mobilize "all available means" against North Korea if it fired the new missile, the Taepodong 2. But this does not include the use of military force, he said.
This statement reflected the options being considered in Washington, Tokyo and Seoul, where the growing assumption is that nothing can be done to prevent the test.
The options include attempts at working with North Korea, particularly on the "agreed framework" under which Pyongyang has forsworn deployment or proliferation of nuclear weapons. In exchange, the North is entitled to economic assistance in the form of food and fuel, and help in building a light-water nuclear reactor to generate electricity.
Robert Manning, a former senior State Department adviser, has suggested letting North Korea "stew in its own juices" as it confronts a near economic collapse and one of the worst famines of the century. In response to a missile test, the United States, Japan and South Korea must "cut aid and restrict contacts," he wrote in a recent policy paper.
Undermining arguments for either approach, however, is a fundamental uncertainty about what drives North Korean decision-making. What the West sees as carrots -- increased trade, aid, travel and political contacts, for example -- may be what some in North Korea fear most because the withered economy is so fragile that even gradual attempts at opening it up could be deeply destabilizing.
If the problem is seen through this prism, those suggesting the firmest responses may inadvertently be Pyongyang's best allies. According to this view, nothing perhaps is more important to President Kim Jong Il's rule than furthering a view of the outside world as hostile and predatory.
"There haven't been very many satisfactory options for dealing with North Korea for 40 years," said Morton I. Abramowitz, author of a recent policy paper published by the Council on Foreign Relations that advocates a mixture of continued engagement and limited sanctions in case of a missile test. "They are a dying state, or a near-dying state. To change that, they have to change the way they do business, and this involves opening up, which some undoubtedly find terrifying."
If North Korea goes ahead with its test, however, as is widely expected, it may find its unpredictability matched by the reactions of its neighbors, and even by Washington.
Already South Korea's President, Kim Dae Jung, is facing domestic criticism over the perceived slimness of returns from a "sunshine policy" toward the North, which has involved encouraging investments by South Korean companies and authorizing lucrative but tightly controlled tourism to North Korea.
In Japan the prospect of the missile test has transformed the debate over military matters in ways that would have scarcely been imaginable only two years ago.
A previous generation of North Korean missiles, the Rodong, were able to strike parts of Japan. Even after the launching of the Taepodong 1 missile last year, on a flight that crossed Japanese airspace, public opinion on military questions, which has been deeply pacifist, scarcely countenanced any change in the Government's stance.
In recent months, though, as the new test has drawn nearer, some Japanese have increasingly questioned aspects of the country's traditional and constitutionally mandated antimilitarism. This has contributed to a wave of more nationalistic sentiments among mainstream politicians.
"Gradually Japanese people are becoming aware that they are facing a threat from North Korea, and this has been a very good chance for the society to re-evaluate our security posture," said Tomohisa Sakananaka, president of the Research Institute for Peace and Security, a private policy organization.
"The Japanese Constitution since 1953 allows the country to take defensive measures against any threat against the nation's existence; that is not new. But this is completely theoretical. We don't have any capability to attack North Korea."
It is now believed that the new test by North Korea would go a long way toward changing this position.
"We have four options," said Toshiyuki Shikata, a retired general with Japan's National Self Defense Force. "We could just keep smiling and continuing the 'sunshine policy' toward North Korea, or develop our own long-range missile, which people in the region and our own public opinion would oppose.
"Between these two extremes we are choosing two other options: developing a theater missile-defense system with the U.S., which would take several years, and giving Japan retaliation capability through its air force. If a Korean missile should fall in Japanese territory, and particularly cause casualties or some destruction, the Prime Minister could then order the destruction of North Korean missile sites, and I believe the Japanese public would support the Government in these measures."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Pyongyang: Pyongyang plans to test a missile, and its neighbors are nervous. (pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MISSILES; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W WILLIAM S COHEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



99 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: 4 Months Late, Albany Passes Budget for 2000

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Wednesday, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Four months overdue, the Legislature completed passage of a $73.3 billion state budget early this morning that was incubated in partisan anger and hatched in weary compromise. It provides large increases in aid to schools and child care for the poor, and makes none of the cuts originally sought by Gov. George E. Pataki.
The Senate passed the 11 huge spending bills making up the budget on Tuesday evening, while the Assembly did not approve the last of the bills until 1:33 A.M. today. As a result, the Legislature tied the record for tardiness in passing a budget, set two years ago, at 126 days late. State law requires approval of the budget before April 1, the start of the fiscal year, but New York has violated that law 15 years in a row, a record not approached by any other state. 
 The budget mostly split the difference between the proposals made early this year by Mr. Pataki, a Republican, and the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, and the final product resembled the middle ground taken by the Republican majority leader of the Senate, Joseph L. Bruno.
The three leaders also agreed Tuesday to allow financially troubled Nassau County to impose a 1 percent tax on real estate sales over the next 18 months, as Democrats dropped their demand that the county's finances be overseen by a state control board. In an unrelated matter that had been linked to the Nassau deal in negotiations, lawmakers also agreed to renew a property tax break that will save the owners of 280,000 New York City co-ops and condominiums an average of $580 a year, a provision that expired a month ago.
This year's state budget process was conducted in the long shadow cast last year, when the Legislature passed a budget with little input from the Governor only to see him veto $1.6 billion in spending items, most of them sought by the Democrats. For months, Mr. Silver insisted that the Governor promise not to veto items this year, while Mr. Pataki refused to get involved in the budget negotiations. Real progress began only in mid-June, when the Governor joined the talks, and he eventually agreed not to make broad use of vetoes, in return for limits on the overall size of the budget.
The brittle relationship between Mr. Silver and Mr. Pataki helped drag out the process. Between calling each other names and accusing each other of leading the state to ruin, each man and his aides contended that the other could not be trusted. It did not help matters that under a new law that raised legislators' salaries, their paychecks were withheld for as long as the budget was late. In the end, everyone involved expressed something closer to grim satisfaction than elation.
"You have to negotiate in good faith," Mr. Bruno said. "You have to have the will to do a budget, and in my mind, the will hasn't been there until these last several weeks."
Mr. Silver said Tuesday: "My conference gave me a mandate on this budget: no wholesale vetoes, restore pre-K, reduce class size, eliminate the Governor's health care cuts and eliminate the cuts to the tuition assistance program. I'm happy to report that we're doing a budget tonight that accomplishes those goals." But he conceded that he was forced to retreat on spending for schools, colleges, hospitals and nursing homes.
The strong economy has made it possible, for the third year in a row, for the state to raise spending significantly, even while cutting taxes. But this year's spending plan is more cautious than the last two, which were approved as Governor Pataki ran for re-election. State lawmakers are being less aggressive this year than in the last two years on both spending and tax cuts, in part because the state is still absorbing the commitments made in 1997 and 1998.
Mr. Pataki achieved one of his major goals for the year, an agreement not to spend the $1.8 billion surplus accumulated in the last fiscal year, which will be saved to help the state pay for tax cuts to take effect next year. New York, which had just a few hundred million dollars' cash reserve at the beginning of 1998, now has nearly $3 billion.
But the Governor clearly did not reach his other main objective, to keep the rise in spending within the rate of inflation, now under 2 percent. Overall spending is projected to grow by 3.8 percent, though the true number may be smaller because lawmakers routinely overestimate costs of programs. The state's general fund, the part generated by state taxes and fees that is most closely watched by independent fiscal analysts, is projected to grow by 2.4 percent, to $37.4 billion, and it would be higher if not for some accounting maneuvers that moved some spending out of the general fund.
Mr. Pataki also gave up on the deep cuts that he proposed for Medicaid, tuition aid for low-income college students, and the year-old effort to bolster education for the youngest children.
That education program, the product of the 1997 budget deal, included making prekindergarten and full-day kindergarten classes available in every community and reducing class sizes in kindergarten through the third grade. Mr. Silver was furious at the Governor for going back on that agreement, and made adhering to it his highest priority this year.
Just as Mr. Pataki backed away from his proposed cuts to Medicaid -- at $28 billion, the largest segment of the budget -- Mr. Silver dropped his attempts to reverse cuts that were made in 1995 and 1996. In the end, Medicaid was barely changed.
The biggest changes from last year are in child care and in education, which in recent years has supplanted health care as the fastest-growing part of the budget.
At Mr. Pataki's initiative, the budget will nearly double the amount that the state spends to subsidize child care for low-income working parents, to $839 million this year from $460 million last year. That will provide 100,000 or more new day care slots, mostly through vouchers to the parents, who can spend them with any day care provider registered with the state. Like advocates for the poor, the Governor has asserted that providing child care is a crucial component of moving people from welfare into jobs.
Lawmakers raised operating aid to school districts by 7.7 percent, to $12.7 billion. Of the $913 million increase, the largest ever in raw dollars, $140 million is for expansion of prekindergarten and related programs. The overall increase is far more than the Governor called for, less than what the Assembly sought, and roughly equal to the Senate proposal. Adjusted for inflation and the number of children in public schools, school aid is now at an all-time high, exceeding the previous peak set in 1990, just before the last recession.
Lawmakers also provided $1.3 billion for school construction and renovation, $430 million more than last year's record sum.
The budget includes $378 million a year in new tax cuts, to be phased in over the next two years. The largest are $150 million in cuts for the insurance and banking industries, and a $125 million expansion of a tax credit for 1.1 million low-wage workers, most of them with children.
Lawmakers are also postponing elimination of the sales tax on clothing, up to $110 per item, from the Dec. 1 date decided on last year to March 1 next year, but they provided for two tax-free weeks in the meantime, in September and February.
But the greater impact on the state's finances comes from more than $1 billion in tax cuts enacted in the last two years but only taking effect this year. The largest is a property tax reduction for homeowners outside New York City, which is being phased in over four years.
In mental health, the budget provides $50 million for construction of group homes and other community-based housing for 900 mentally ill people, an initiative by the Assembly Democrats, and $25 million for similar housing for 980 mentally retarded people, a measure sought by the Governor. Both resulted from news reports that prompted calls for state action: two incidents of people being pushed in front of subway trains by mentally ill people, and reports of mentally retarded adults living in homeless shelters.
The Assembly Democrats, after resisting for more than a year, also agreed to approve the money to finish a partially constructed, 750-bed state prison in western New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki, Speaker Sheldon Silver, center, and Joseph L. Bruno, right, the Senate majority leader have agreed on a budget. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILD CARE LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



100 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MCVEIGH, CHRISTOPHER R.

 BODY:
McVEIGH-Christopher R. Of Montclair, New Jersey, formerly of Somers, New York, died August 2 at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. Mr. McVeigh worked as VP of Marketing for Prudential Insurance Company in Newark, NJ for the past two years. Mr. McVeigh was born on August 24, 1965 in Brooklyn, NY to Robert & Marie Murphy McVeigh. He attended Regis High School in New York City, graduating in 1983. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass. in 1987. Mr. McVeigh lived in Montclair, NJ for the past year. Mr. McVeigh lived in Somers, NY from 1992 to 1998. He was a parishioner of St. Cassians Church, Montclair, New Jersey. Mr. McVeigh is survived by his wife Joann K. (nee Gleason) of Montclair, NJ, father of Colleen Anne and Kevin Robert. Son of Robert A. and Marie B. McVeigh. Brother of Laura Masi of Stamford, CT, Gregory McVeigh of Fairfield, CT, Jenifer Maggiacomo of Quincy, MA and Maureen McVeigh of Vienna, VA. Stepson of Eileen C. McVeigh of Somers, NY. Son-inlaw of Kevin and Mary Virginia Gleason of Englewood, CO. Brother-in-law of John Gleason of Englewood, CO, Mary Carol Gleason of Englewood, CO, James Gleason of Denver, CO, Daniel Gleason of Montclair, NJ, John Masi of Stamford, CT, Jenifer Smith McVeigh of Fairfield, CT and Steven Maggiacomo of Quincy, MA. Three nephews and two nieces. Mr. McVeigh is predeceased by his mother Marie B. McVeigh, who died in 1996. Visitation Wednesday and Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM at the Cassidy Flynn Funeral Home, Mt. Kisco, NY. The funeral is Friday 10 AM, at St. Joseph's Church, Croton Falls, NY. Interment will follow at St. Joseph's Cemetery, Croton Falls, NY. Friends may send memorial donations in memory of Christopher R. McVeigh c/o Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: PICL (NEP) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (76%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (76%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); 

PERSON: MCVEIGH, CHRISTOPHER R. JOHN J GLEASON SR (68%); JAMES S GLEASON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999



101 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN NOTEBOOK;
Elemental as Water: The Pool House as Muse

BYLINE: By JOSEPH GIOVANNINI 

 BODY:
THE pursuit of delight, especially in the garden, has been an architectural commandment since the Roman architect and engineer Vitruvius set down his own Mosaic laws in the first century B.C. (The goals were to include "commodity, firmness and delight," he declared.)
Architecture history is well endowed with pavilions that deliver their occupants to panoramas of nature; designers shaping garden rooms are often hypnotized by the prospect of adding another chapter to this rich tradition. Unencumbered by the functional demands of kitchens, closets and bedrooms, pavilions can be designed without the usual constraints and without the safety net of excuses. Designers do not toss them off lightly. 
 Pool houses in suburbia, though, are another matter. Working cousins of the more aloof garden follies -- with their ancestral pedigrees -- these chlorine-perfumed repositories of musty towels, Ping-Pong tables and teen-agers have been overlooked as a serious genre.
In one backyard in West Hartford, Conn., however, the New York architect David Kriegel elevated the pool house from its status as a common utility structure to a true garden pavilion. A plywood shanty had existed next to the kidney-shaped pool belonging to Joseph and Sonia Gerber. (Mr. Gerber had designed and built the plywood pool house himself.) After demolition, all that remained was a concrete pad and a back retaining wall, both of which would be integrated into a new building.
Mr. Kriegel offered four designs for the small structure, but Mr. Gerber, an inventor and industrialist who won the National Medal of Technology in 1994 (awarded by President Clinton), had an engineer's sense of economy. He encouraged the architect to use as few elements as possible. "He was an excellent critic," Mr. Kriegel said of Mr. Gerber, who died three years ago, shortly after the pool house was built. "The first designs were complicated, and I stripped elements away until I was left with only what was needed. It was an exercise in reduction."
Mr. Kriegel finally drew inspiration from the simplicity of the surrounding garden, whose serpentine stone walls complemented the curves of the pool. "I wanted to integrate the pool house with the landscaping," he said. The architect extended the idea of the low garden wall with a spiral of stone that encloses an outdoor shower, open near the ceiling. A few steps away he built two changing cabins, sheathed in redwood. "Redwood doesn't rot outdoors, and it's dimensionally stable," Mr. Kriegel said.
The cabins look very much man-made, in contrast with the naturalistic shower wall. Steel columns carry a carefully designed assembly of redwood beams and rafters, supporting a corrugated fiberglass roof, whose aqua coloring and wavy profile echo the water in the pool. The structure, which is 100 square feet, cost about $30,000.
The solution was rational. "That appealed to my clients," Mr. Kriegel said.
But the design went beyond the rational. "I love the contrast in textures," said Mrs. Gerber, who was trained as an artist. "I like the openness to the out-of-doors."
The lyricism of the spiral and the naturalism of the materials are tempered by a quirky asymmetry: on one side, a single steel column holds a pair of beams, and on the other, a pair of columns supports a single beam. "It does have a sense of humor," Mr. Kriegel said.
The elemental quality of the wood and stone is contradicted by the aqua-colored columns and the translucent fiberglass roof, which tints the interior blue-green. "I've never done anything this small before," said Mr. Kriegel, who designed the vast, hyperkinetic Virgin Mega Store in Times Square.
Small, perhaps, but packed with mixed messages. Nesting against the old retaining wall, and built of stone and natural wood, the pool house recalls Frank Lloyd Wright's simple Usonian houses, odes to democratic building and nature that often intensified the landscape. Mr. Kriegel throws a swerve at the idyllic harmony with the corrugated fiberglass and aqua paint, and with the puckish humor of the columns.
"Each of the components has a different personality that speaks to the others," Mr. Kriegel said. The simplicity of the straight-lined structure with the floating roof is also related to Mies van der Rohe's pavilions. But Mr. Kriegel's structure, with its diverse elements, has a complex simplicity.
An object of contemplation across the pool, the pool house is an object lesson in his practice, influencing his subsequent designs. "In many ways, it was architecture without interference, without compromises," he said, "which is unheard of. The pool house remains one of my favorite projects, as tiny as it is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: COMPLEX SIMPLICITY -- A pool house in Connecticut, above, has two redwood changing cabins and a stone shower. Left, the pool house snuggles against an old retaining wall. (Photographs by David Kriegel/Bibliowicz Nelligan Kriegel Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: SWIMMING POOLS; ARCHITECTURE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

PERSON: KRIEGEL, DAVID; GIOVANNINI, JOSEPH; GERBER, JOSEPH; GERBER, SONIA BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



102 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 10; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Yes, There'll Always Be An England, or Two

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

FOREVER ENGLAND
By Beryl Bainbridge
174 pages. Carroll & Graf. $22.
Considering the differences between the North and the South in the United States, one might find it hard to believe that in relatively compact England similar disparities are thought to hold true. Yet that is the subject of Beryl Bainbridge's quirky new book, "Forever England." As the author explains in her preface, the book is based on a television series "which, in an attempt to examine the roots of that evergreen assumption, the notion that England is two nations, focused on the expectations and attitudes of six families, three in the North and three in the South." Much of the perceived difference is based on myth, Ms. Bainbridge, who grew up in Liverpool and is best known as a novelist, writes in her introduction. "In the South they rode to hounds and went to Ascot; in the North we kept pigeons and raced greyhounds. When we had our tea, people in London sat down to their dinner dressed up as if they were off out to a Masonic hot-pot supper." 
 "All the same," she continues, "these simplistic myths, matters of manners and money and location, never for one moment obscured the real differences that separated us, hid the severing wound that well-nigh cut us in half and could never be healed, for hadn't we been plundered by the South, laid waste, bled white? It was not just industrial. They had drained away our talent and our brains; who had ever heard of anyone once they got on in the world, from William Gladstone to Thomas Handley, who had been content to stay in the North? We learned this from our parents."
To test both myth and parental lore, Ms. Bainbridge interviewed people on the dole in Liverpool, fishermen in Hastings, descendants of coal miners in Barnsley, the extended family of a financier in Bentley, sheep farmers in Northumberland and a multiracial family in Birmingham.
A few arresting generalizations emerge. "Up here in the hills we have crisis after crisis," says the wife of a tenant farmer who keeps 2,000 sheep. "There's no time to consult with anyone else. It could make you very self-opinionated, this sort of life. If you were in the South, you wouldn't need to be so determined, so dogged."
"It is a softer life down here in the South," Ms. Bainbridge concludes after visiting with the fishing family in Hastings. "They're not given to self-analysis, and perhaps the so-called southern reserve is not so much a matter of unfriendliness as a detached complacency born of comparative affluence."
But since the people she visited with seem selected to illustrate her various points, one finds it hard to put much stock in them as a sampling. Their main value is to fix in our minds the geographical distinctions of various regions in England.
Far more diverting are the autobiographical tangents on which the interviews inspire Ms. Bainbridge to take off. Her return to Liverpool triggers memories of her parents, of her father's contradictory ways -- he lamented the loss of the empire yet always voted for Labor -- and of her mother, whose hands were always full "painting the furniture and rearranging the ornaments."
Her visit to Hastings reminds her of a novel she once wrote in which she had to send her protagonist on vacation somewhere. "I didn't think he should go to Brighton -- Brighton was too flashy for him. So I chose Hastings. The name came out of my head like a number out of a hat. I say that, but then nothing is ever as random as it appears. In my opinion there's no such thing as imagination -- in the sense that we have the power to form images of our own making -- for unless we've already acquired images in the first place, from somewhere, how can we possibly summon them into existence, reformed or not?"
A discussion of politics reminds her of the Cuban missile crisis, when she was chosen to go and protest to the American consul but was "struck dumb with admiration" because he looked like "a cross between Gregory Peck and Rasputin."
What emerges from these musings besides the portrait of an amusing, original, opinionated individual? Because Ms. Bainbridge rarely wastes a word in her fiction -- the most recent of her novels are "Master Georgie," "Every Man for Himself" and "The Birthday Boys" -- you look for a hidden pattern here, some subterranean message that helps you to see beyond easy generalizations.
But in vain. Instead what you get is the story of one unusual individual. "If you come from the North as I do," she writes, "and you left it, as I did, you have ambivalent feelings towards the old working communities. It's an uneasy mixture of pride and irritation, sentimentality and mistrust, for you broke away from a narrowness of outlook and a lack of expectation which well-nigh crushed you. And yet -- the heart lies back there in the past, and everyone longs to return and find things just as they were, the arguments in full spate and the home fires still burning."
In "Forever England," Ms. Bainbridge doesn't find the home fires still burning. But she manages to set a few on her own.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beryl Bainbridge (Brendan King/Carroll & Graf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FOREVER ENGLAND (BOOK)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); LITERATURE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); SHEEP FARMING (66%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; BAINBRIDGE, BERYL BERYL BAINBRIDGE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



103 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Factory Orders Rose 0.7% in June

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Orders to United States factories, bolstered by higher demand for automobiles and electronic equipment, rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in June, a fresh sign of recovery for manufacturing.
The increase followed a 1 percent gain in May, the Commerce Department said today. Analysts had expected factory orders to rise by three-tenths of 1 percent in June. 
 Orders for automobiles and car parts rose, offsetting a decrease in demand for airplanes and aircraft parts and contributing to a 2.3 percent increase in orders for all transportation products in June. That was down from a hefty 9.9 percent gain the month before.
"We are on our way to a record level of vehicle sales for the year," said Paul Taylor, an economist with the National Automobile Dealers Association.
Excluding the volatile transportation category, factory orders still would have risen a solid half-percent in June.
"The numbers are surprisingly good," Gordon Richards, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers, said, adding that factory orders were running 4.1 percent higher than in June 1998.
Orders for electronic and other electrical equipment, the sector that includes household appliances and communications equipment, rose 2.4 percent in June after a drop of nine-tenths of 1 percent in May.
The overall gain in June factory orders came despite a steep 5.1 percent decrease in orders for industrial machinery and equipment, the sector that includes computers. It was the second consecutive monthly decline. In May, orders for industrial machinery fell 4.5 percent.
Economists said United States manufacturers are gradually recovering from a global financial crisis, which dampened overseas demand for American-made goods and increased competition from a flood of cheaper imports. Since March 1998, about 488,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost.
Orders for durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years -- rose four-tenths of 1 percent in June. Orders for nondurable goods, like food and fuel, increased, posting a 1.2 percent gain, after a gain in May of nine-tenths of 1 percent.
Separately, the National Association of Purchasing Management reported today that business activity outside the manufacturing sector expanded in July, but at a slower pace than the month before. The purchasing managers' index of nonmanufacturing business fell to 59.5 in July, from 61 in June.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" plots manufacturers' total new orders, from Jan. 1998 through June 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



104 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: In Days, India, Chasing China, Will Have a Billion People

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Sometime in the next week or so the population of India, which adds more people to the world each year than any other nation, will officially cross the one billion mark, just in time for Indian Independence Day on Aug. 15, according to United Nations demographers.
Fifty-two years ago, when India threw off colonialism, it had 345 million people; since then, its population has tripled. 
 India, with its population growing 1.6 percent a year, is expected to overtake China as the most populous nation in the next four decades. China, with more than three times the area of India, reached the one billion level in 1980 and now has 1.27 billion people, with a growth rate of only 0.9 percent. Indians say China achieved the lower rate through coercion, including forced abortion, a course that democratic India could not condone.
Between them, India and China already account for more than one-third of the world's people. The global population is expected to reach six billion on Oct. 12.
By 2016, India, slightly more than a third the size of the United States, is likely to have more people than all of Europe and the rest of the industrial world, excluding Russia, United Nations demographers say.
The profile of India that emerges from the demographers' computers is replete with big numbers because everything about this Asian nation is measured in superlatives, said Joseph Chamie, director of the United Nations Population Division. Mr. Chamie, an American, and his wife worked on family planning projects in India as Peace Corps volunteers 30 years ago.
"This is a remarkable country," he said. For example, India has about 600 million people of voting age, and a healthy democracy to accommodate them. India has the most births annually among nations, 25 million, and many more children survive each year because of better, if still rudimentary, health care.
Despite its considerable problems, often worsened by population pressures, India has increased life expectancy to 63 years, from 39, in less than half a century, and has cut its fertility rate from 6 births for each woman of child-bearing age to 3.1.
The latest population estimate is built on an array of such birth, death and fertility statistics, with further adjustments for migration.
There are other big numbers that tell a less happy story, World Bank experts have found. India has a large majority of the world's illiterates, nearly 500 million. It has more than 320 million abjectly poor people unable to muster an income equivalent to the $1 a day that is needed to buy basic foods.
Development experts and demographers say India is in danger of being overwhelmed by numbers as gains made in fields like education, health and agriculture fail to stay ahead of the surging population. While poverty rates decline steadily in India, the World Bank found, the actual number of people living in poverty continues to rise.
"Poverty imposes an oppressive weight on India, especially in the rural areas, where almost three out of four Indians and 77 percent of the poor live," the World Bank said in its last report on poverty in India, in 1997. An update now being completed does not show much better results, World Bank officials say.
At the Worldwatch Institute in Washington, an independent research organization, Lester Brown, its president, said in an interview that population growth "has put pressure on all of India's resources."
Underground water supplies are shrinking as more farmers turn to pumps when surface irrigation fails or is unreliable. Indians have sunk eight million wells and are using them to water fields where double-cropping has been introduced for higher food production.
"Well before it reached a billion people, India was using water at an unsustainable rate," he said. "You have to wonder, what in the world happens when you add another half billion? To formulate an intelligent population policy, you have to know something about hydrology. I have the feeling that the population policy in India is put together in a vacuum.
"After a while the Government -- trying to educate young people, trying to find them jobs, trying to deal with environmental fallout -- gets stretched so thin it just can't respond. I think the Government is already suffering from demographic fatigue."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Peopled Places"
India's population will reach one billion in about 10 days, according to the United Nations Population Division, making it the second country to reach that mark. The graph shows the most populous countries as of July 1999 (in millions)
 
World population: 5,978 million
 
China: 1,267 -- 21%
India: 998 -- 17%
U.S.: 276
Indonesia: 209
Brazil: 168
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS WORLD BANK (62%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; CHINA; INDIA (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (74%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION POPULATION GROWTH (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); FERTILITY RATES (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); POVERTY RATES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); FAMILY PLANNING (70%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (69%); CHILDREN (67%); VOLUNTEERS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ABORTION (54%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



105 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
After 5 Days of Declines, Price of 30-Year Treasury Rises

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of long-term Treasuries rose for the first time in five sessions yesterday, giving momentary relief to a bond market that has been bracing for higher interest rates ahead of an important employment report that will be released tomorrow.
The market rally was touched off by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers's announcement that the Government would cut its debt sales. Mr. Summers said that while the Treasury would go ahead with its $37 billion sale of new notes and bonds next week, it would eliminate the May auction of 30-year bonds and limit their sales to February and August. The Treasury is also planning to curtail sales of one-year bills and two-year notes and will propose rules to buy back selected issues of high-yield Government debt. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury rose 25/32, to 88 16/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.09 percent from 6.16 percent on Tuesday.
Any reduction in supply has a tendency to bolster prices, traders noted. But while bonds rebounded yesterday, some market participants do not think that the yearlong decline in prices is about to reverse itself. Weighing on the market is the sale of about $54 billion in Government and corporate debt scheduled for the coming weeks and the deep-rooted concern that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates at its next policy-making meeting, on Aug. 24.
The largest of the corporate sales will be this week's $5.5 billion issue from Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which could reduce demand for Treasury securities as investors sell Treasuries to make room for the higher-yield paper.
The Government report tomorrow will contain details about employment and wages in July. If the number shows the economy grew at a strong clip, it could worry financial markets by increasing the likelihood of an interest rate increase.
The market is nervous and any economic data that show a stronger-than-expected economy are not going to be taken well by Wall Street. The warning by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, in Congressional testimony that the central bank would move quickly if there were any signs of a resurgence in inflation was not lost on investors who had thought that inflation was dormant and that no rate increase was imminent.
The central bank raises interest rates to avert potential inflation, although such actions tend to hurt stock prices by taking money out of the economy as it becomes more expensive for companies and consumers to borrow money.
"The probability of a Fed tightening at the Aug. 24 Federal Open Market Committee meeting has increased markedly in the aftermath of Greenspan's comments during his Humphrey-Hawkins testimony and a plethora of data indicating continued economic buoyancy coupled with a perceptible pickup in the overall rate of inflation," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management.
Mr. Fine says that if the consensus projections of a 200,000 increase in payrolls, an unchanged unemployment rate and a rise of three-tenths of a percent in average hourly earnings are close to the mark, the expectation of a Fed tightening toward the end of the month will become even more firmly entrenched.
Mr. Fine said the bond market had already priced in a small increase, giving the Fed a green light to make another pre-emptive strike later this year to ward off inflation. "Quite clearly, market observers will now require upcoming data to persuasively suggest that a tightening move will not be forthcoming at this next F.O.M.C. forum," he said.
In when-issued trading ahead of next week's quarterly refunding, $15 billion of five-year notes to be auctioned on Tuesday were being offered at a price to yield about 5.78 percent, while $12 billion of 10-year notes being sold on Wednesday were priced to yield 5.88 percent and $10 billion of 30-year bonds for sale on Thursday were priced to yield 6 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since April. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (66%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WAL-MART STORES INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); AUCTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TESTIMONY (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT LAWRENCE SUMMERS (71%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



106 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Travel Agents Express Anger On Internet-Only Plane Fares

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Travel agents reacted with anger and disappointment yesterday to the latest airline offers of additional discounts on tickets booked over the carriers' World Wide Web sites.
"No matter how the airlines dance around it, this is an attempt to put travel agents out of business," John Hawks, president of the Association of Retail Travel Agents in Lexington, Ky., said of the latest round of discount offers. Mr. Hawks added that he expected Congress to take a critical look at Internet-only fare offers when it returns to the topic of airline passenger rights, possibly later this year. 
 The American Society of Travel Agents in Alexandria, Va., also opposes Internet-only fares. "All fares should be available to all travelers," said Dina Long, a spokeswoman for the association.
Airlines say they are simply doing what every business tries to do -- lower costs.
"We're not trying to put anybody out of business," said Dave Swierenga, the economist for the Air Transport Association, the industry trade group. "But now we have a new technology that bypasses a big part of the labor component of writing tickets, and obviously that's hard for agents to deal with. This is simply a rational business decision in a world that's changing, and travel agents need to recognize that the ticket-writing function can now be done more simply by technology."
That new technology is, of course, the Internet, which allows passengers to buy tickets directly, without having to go through travel agents, who book about 80 percent of airline tickets, or reservations agents. Travel agents can match fares loaded into the computerized reservations systems as well as most fares posted on an airline's Web site, but special low fares for last-minute weekend travel are usually made available only to an airline's E-mail subscribers, while other bargain fares are increasingly found only on the Web sites of airlines.
Airlines offer Internet-only fares in hopes of persuading more passengers to book electronically because it saves the carriers money. "It costs Delta up to 400 percent more to book and deliver a ticket using the traditional processes," Vince Caminiti, a Delta executive, said in a speech to a business travel association in Minneapolis last month.
The airline industry's ticket commission costs fell to $5.2 billion in 1998 from a high of $7.6 billion in 1993, mainly because in 1995 the carriers succeeded in scrapping the traditional 10 percent agent's commission and imposing a maximum $50 fee for each transaction. Over all, commission rates fell to 6.3 percent this June from 10 percent in June 1994. To help pick up the slack, travel agents have increased their sales of cruises and land excursions, package tours and hotel rooms. Many also charge customers a fee for such once-free services as rewriting tickets and planning itineraries.
On Monday, Northwest Airlines reduced leisure fares by as much as 25 percent for travel between next month and December. Most other airlines quickly matched Northwest, including Delta Air Lines. Then on Tuesday, Delta offered an additional 10 percent off the sale fares for passengers who book their tickets on the Delta Web site. Other airlines matched those reductions as well. Unlike an unsuccessful attempt by Delta last January to charge $2 for each round-trip flight not booked on its Internet site, this week's Internet moves appear likely to succeed. At least for now.
"The airlines are very brave at doing such things when we're in a robust economy," Mr. Hawks said. "But if there's any business that's cyclical, it's airlines, and when the downturn comes, as it will, travel agents will remember how they were treated."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (57%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (57%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TRAVEL AGENCIES AND AGENTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC) TRAVEL AGENTS (95%); AIRLINES (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (79%); TRAVEL TICKETS (79%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (79%); TICKET SALES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TOUR PACKAGES (74%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); COMMISSION PAY (73%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



107 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
The Dwindling Market in U.S. Treasury Bonds

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
For nearly two decades, the Government securities market has grown exponentially as Uncle Sam has regularly relied upon it to help finance the nation's $5.5 trillion in debt. But looking ahead, the financial markets are heading into strange territory, a landscape in which Treasury securities -- a mainstay of professional hedging strategies, an influence on consumer and corporate borrowing costs, and a safe haven for those with no appetite for risk -- will become increasingly scarce.
What has been a suspicion since Government surpluses first began to emerge 18 months ago became more of a certainty yesterday, when Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers announced an unusual proposal that, if carried out, would allow the Federal Government to begin buying back some of its old bonds and notes. Indeed, President Clinton has said that he would like to pay off the entire national debt by the year 2015. 
 A world without Treasury bonds? No one in the current market seems to think that is likely. But market participants agree that a profoundly important shift is occurring -- one that could ultimately affect consumer and business borrowers, coupon-clipping investors, mutual funds and their shareholders, and professional money managers who rely on Treasury securities to hedge their riskier debts here and around world.
"This is a sea change," said James M. Keller, senior vice president and portfolio manager for Treasury securities at Pimco Advisers, an asset management firm. "I was struck by the Treasury's observation that the last time there were two back-to-back years of budget surpluses was in 1956 and 1957. I wasn't alive then, so this is a new thing for me."
Mr. Keller added: "The marketplace is really in search of a new benchmark, one that they can price other investments off of. And we don't really know what that's going to be."
While the nation's interest rates over the long run tend to reflect its fundamental economic health, a shrinking supply of Treasury bonds would probably cause the price of those securities to rise relative to corporate and mortgage bonds, said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist of Bank of America.
"Everyone has been aware of this trend, but the Treasury has sounded a wake-up call," Mr. Levy added. "The total publicly held Treasury debt is beginning to shrink." And because supply and demand matter, he added, that is likely to drive up the price of bonds, pushing down their yields. That would be good news for corporate and consumer borrowers whose loans are tied to the benchmark Treasury rates.
Moreover, as the nation's debt was ballooning in the early 1980's, there was widespread concern that Uncle Sam would elbow out other borrowers, making it harder and more expensive for them to raise money. Thus, it is logical to hope that the reversal of that trend would result in cheaper and more abundant credit for other borrowers. Already, as the budget surpluses have grown, the Government's share of the market for newly issued bonds has dropped, to 18 percent today from 40 percent in 1990.
But falling interest rates on Treasury bonds, the safest and most liquid fixed-income securities in the market, would also trim the interest income that new Treasury investors receive -- a development that may prompt those wary investors to seek riskier investments to maintain their standard of living.
The same quandary may well face people who invest in Government bonds through the mutual funds. Short-term Treasury bills and notes are the daily bread of the popular taxable money-market funds, some 685 of them holding more than $1.1 trillion in assets, that are used by millions of investors as a place to park their short-term cash. Longer-term Treasury securities are stuffed into a variety of other government-bond mutual funds whose assets, as of the end of June, totaled $82.6 billion.
Mr. Keller, the portfolio manager, already anticipates that the Treasury's proposal could have a two-edged impact on his own fund. "My holdings are in some of these bonds that the Treasury might be seeking to retire," he said. "So I may face a one-time gain, yes. But going forward, there will be less of these cheaper issues out there. And there will be another competitor in the marketplace for them -- the Treasury, with deeper pockets than I have."
And beyond the plain-vanilla world of mutual funds, Treasury securities are used in a variety of sophisticated hedging and investment strategies -- as the world discovered last fall when a large hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn., nearly capsized after a stampede of investors into the Treasury market battered the bets the fund had placed on the future relationship of various pairs of interest rates.
Traders interviewed yesterday said they did not think that a gradual reduction in Treasury debt would alter interest-rate trends sharply enough to cause a similar disturbance this time. "I think people have been gun-shy of putting those kinds of strategies on," said James Hamilton, head of swaps market-making in Europe for the Bank of America's London branch.
Indeed, Wall Street has been pushing for some new tool that would allow the Treasury to streamline the inventory of bonds that are in the public's hands, according to Mr. Keller. The hope, he explained, was that the Treasury would be able to buy back "the odds and ends" -- bonds in the less popular maturities -- and replace them with bonds that have become more useful as hedging instruments.
If the Treasury does begin to focus its borrowing on certain maturities, the esoteric derivatives and swaps markets would find it easier to adapt to a world in which Treasury securities are in short supply, said Paul Spraos, the publisher of the Swaps Monitor, an industry newsletter.
Treasury bonds have long been the swap market's equivalent of Greenwich Mean Time, the point from which the prices of all sorts of over-the-counter interest rate swaps are determined. "But over the past two years, we've seen a gradual cutback in the number of auctions," Mr. Spraos said. "Over time, the market has adjusted. But there will come a time when it could be a problem."
Indeed, as Mr. Summers announced the proposed debt buyback yesterday, he also said that the Treasury would auction new bonds only twice a year in the future, in February and August, eliminating the auction traditionally held in May.
Jerry del Messier, a managing director of Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank P.L.C., said he thought the continued shrinkage in the Treasury market would ultimately expand the swaps market. "Nothing will ever replace the Government bond as the true risk-free interest rate," he said. "But we are seeing an increasing willingness of investors to look to the swap rates as the benchmark. Swaps are a better hedge. We have seen that in the sterling markets. And we are seeing an increasing willingness of investors to accept swaps as proxies for buying fixed-income securities."
Mr. Keller agreed that the interest rates established in the swaps market are becoming increasingly influential among professionals on Wall Street; indeed, many trading desks are already using them, he said.
But he said he thought the bonds issued by more familiar Government-sponsored agencies like Fannie Mae are more likely to emerge as the new benchmark for consumer-driven money managers.
"For a mutual fund manager like myself," he said, "it is easier to go from cash Treasury securities to cash agency debt than to make the leap over the chasm to an instrument that is still perceived as very exotic."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); BONDS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TRENDS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (66%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



108 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Oil and Those Slippery Anti-Dumping Laws

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
On Monday the Commerce Department is scheduled to weigh in on a trade dispute that a number of economists say could take the country's fair-trade laws to new heights of absurdity.
Twelve independent oil producers that take nearly depleted wells from major oil companies and pump out the last remnants have accused Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Iraq and Venezuela of selling oil in the United States for less than what they spend to produce it. That is a violation of the trade rules that is known as dumping. The plaintiffs are calling for the United States to impose taxes of up to about 170 percent of the price of oil imported from these countries. 
 Economists often mock anti-dumping laws because they punish foreigners for doing something kind for consumers: selling products at low prices. Dumping would be a genuine threat if foreigners could credibly drive American competitors out of business in order to take over an industry and raise prices later on. But such cases occur rarely, if ever. In the case of oil, the dumping accusation makes even less sense.
Oil is a commodity that is priced in a world market. One producer, even if willing to absorb losses for a time by selling at below-market prices, could never expect to recoup its losses by raising prices above market levels in the future. Other suppliers would strip away its customers.
Moreover, it is hard to make the case that dumping is occurring when one of the accused exporters, Saudi Arabia, spends only about $1.50 or so to produce a barrel of oil that sells for about $15.
Economists point out other holes in the dumping charge. The oil market is worldwide. It does not matter whose oil goes where. A tax slapped on four oil exporters will drive down imports from them. But it will not drive down imports over all. Other exporters will take up the slack.
Oil that Saudi Arabia would have sent to the United States will go instead to Europe; oil that Kuwait would have sent to Europe will come to the United States. Once the markets figure this out, oil supplies and prices will not change very much. "Victory," said Philip K. Verleger, an economist for the Brattle Group, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., "cannot help domestic producers."
It might seem that a flawed case would be swiftly rejected by the Government agencies that administer the trade laws. Not so, Mr. Verleger said. The plaintiffs could easily triumph on Monday. "When it comes to dumping, economically ludicrous cases prevail all the time," he said.
Mr. Verleger's point is that the anti-dumping laws are so stacked in favor of domestic companies that the Government agencies in charge of adjudicating trade cases almost always side against foreigners.
For example, it is a common practice during times of economic slack for United States companies, including oil companies, to cut prices simply to generate enough cash to cover their operating costs even if they lose money over all. This is perfectly legal. But when foreign companies engage in similar price-cutting, even as a defensive move to meet prices charged by concerns in the United States, they end up violating anti-dumping laws.
A second bias creeps into the process in this case because under the law, the Commerce Department does not even have to establish that Saudi Arabia's price falls below production costs. Instead, it need only find that Saudi Arabia charges less in the United States than it does somewhere else. The plaintiffs say that Saudi Arabia sets lower prices in this country than it does in Japan. Maybe so. But how that practice harms the United States, or proves that Saudi Arabia is selling oil below its cost, remains unexplained.
The plaintiffs take advantage of another oddity in the anti-dumping rules when they accuse the Mexican Government of subsidizing the sale of exports by Pemex, the state oil company. But the plaintiffs conveniently ignore, as the United States laws may allow, the offsetting amounts of money that Pemex routinely turns over to the Mexican Government. According to figures provided by the Mexican Government, it provides no net subsidy to Pemex.
Michael Stein, a lawyer representing a group of domestic oil producers that oppose the complaint, says the behavior of oil exporters hardly fits accusations of dumping. "I have fought to enforce the anti-dumping laws, first as a long-time Government official, then as lawyer for plaintiffs in anti-dumping cases," he said. "But this time I'm lining up against the plaintiffs because they are abusing the trade laws."
Mr. Stein points out that the plaintiffs represent a small fraction of the oil industry, yet they seek to raise prices for everyone. The major oil companies opposed the case. So do many independents. The anti-dumping laws are supposed to require that plaintiffs account for a substantial proportion of the domestic industry. But the law gives the Commerce Department wide discretion to ignore production by Mobil, Exxon and other large domestic companies that do business with foreigners when it determines the fraction of domestic production provided by the plaintiffs. Commerce is expected to decide on Monday whether the plaintiffs in the oil case meet the law's threshold.
Though economists often belittle the economic case for anti-dumping laws, they acknowledge a coherent political rationale for the laws. Low-price imports benefit hundreds of millions of consumers, but threaten a small number of domestic producers, driving them to seek cover from Congress. The laws mitigate anti-trade fervor by committing countries to rules of fair play. The laws also dilute opposition to open trade by channeling plaintiffs into a legal mechanism stacked in their favor.
But the economic arguments are so weak in the oil case that some of the economists and lawyers opposed to the plaintiffs speculate that their real purpose might be to negotiate with the Clinton Administration for a tax break or some other consolation prize if they dropped their charges.
Robert Litan of the Brookings Institution, an ardent critic of the anti-dumping laws, best exposes the peculiarity of the case when he considers the consequence of a victory by the plaintiffs. "There is a silver lining in an otherwise dark cloud," he said. "The absurdity of the result might finally cause Congress to amend the dumping law in a pro-consumer direction."
Indeed, if there is any reason for thinking that the Government might side with consumers this time, it is that the Commerce Department's normal anti-import stance could cause Vice President Al Gore severe embarrassment. He no doubt wants to kick off his Presidential campaign with something other than an announcement from the Administration that it thinks Americans don't pay enough at the gas pump and the home heating depot.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; MEXICO; IRAQ; VENEZUELA; UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); IMPORT PRICES (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); SALES & SELLING (71%); TAX INCREASES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M PHILIP K VERLEGER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



109 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Dubuque Journal;
The Slight That Years, All 75, Can't Erase

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: DUBUQUE, Iowa, July 31

 BODY:
It has always struck the people of this proud old Iowa town as an awfully snooty remark.
In a 1925 prospectus for The New Yorker, Harold Ross, the magazine's founder, boasted that it would not be "edited for the old lady in Dubuque." 
 Presumably all the old ladies who were in Dubuque in 1925 have since passed from the scene, as has Mr. Ross. But the remark still stings.
"We've been sitting here seething for 75 years," David Rusk said, not altogether in jest. "And by golly, it was time to respond."
Mr. Rusk is the editor of Julien's Journal, a monthly here, and in the June and July issues he gave The New Yorker, and New York, a taste of their own medicine, accusing New York of provincialism, at least when it comes to a condescending view of Dubuque.
"The Dubuque area magazine has at long last come to the defense of the community it serves, nose to nose, magazine to magazine," Mr. Rusk wrote.
"Ross and The New Yorker," his article said, "were actually ill equipped to know the real Dubuque and, as a result, cast their aspersion without sufficient grounds. They didn't know our community then, and they don't know it now."
Iowa likes to claim the highest literacy rate in the nation, and its high school test scores are consistently at or near the top. But Mr. Rusk complained that the "old lady" remark forever cast Dubuque as "the quintessential notion of provincial, non-metropolitan Middle America."
Asked about Mr. Rusk's grievance, people at The New Yorker said they had not known they had a battle on their hands. "We wish all the people in Dubuque well," said a spokeswoman, Perri Dorset.
To be sure, not everyone here is losing sleep over the 75-year-old slight. At 60, Betty Baule, a reference librarian, is far from an old lady. But she plans to be one someday, and she said: "I love The New Yorker. A lot of people in Dubuque read the magazine."
Besides, she added, stereotypes run in both directions. "I'm sure there are people in Dubuque," she said, "who have stereotypical views of New York."
For his part, Mr. Rusk says he feels no great animosity toward New York. He has friends and family there, and the Rusk Institute for Rehabilitation Medicine at New York University Medical Center was founded by a distant relative, Dr. Howard A. Rusk. (Another relative was Dean Rusk, the Secretary of State under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.)
It's just that he wouldn't want to live there. "Too much city, too much humanity, too much crime, too much traffic, too much of everything," he wrote. "It costs too much to live well there."
He conceded that some people would regard Dubuque as too much the opposite: too small, too contained, too provincial.
"I say, good for you," he wrote. "Stay in New York and leave us to our own. But do let us visit. And please visit us as well. We can both do with a bit of broadening."
Both Dubuque, an old Mississippi River town, and Julien's Journal were named for a French explorer, Julien Dubuque, the city's founder.
These are good times for Dubuque, which has rebounded from the disastrous 80's, when unemployment soared to nearly 15 percent and housing values plummeted. In those days, the city relied heavily on meatpacking and the manufacture of farm implements, and a downturn in the agricultural sector brought big trouble for Dubuque as a whole. Now the local economy is much more diversified, with much of the job growth in computer programming, publishing and marketing.
With more jobs than workers, Dubuque civic and business leaders have run a campaign in recent years to lure back young people. The campaign, "Come back to your future -- come home to Dubuque," has succeeded in reaching some native sons and daughters who moved far away when the economy here was a shambles.
Boosters note that for a town of 60,000, Dubuque has a rich plate of cultural offerings. The Mississippi River Museum is the centerpiece of a $28 million riverfront project under construction here, and the town also has the Heartland Ballet Company, the Dubuque Symphony Orchestra and a theater group, the Barn Community Players.
All that may be small potatoes compared with New York, and Mr. Rusk acknowledges that his own, 23-year-old magazine is certainly small potatoes compared with the storied if financially struggling New Yorker. Nonetheless, he likes where he's sitting.
"Our magazine," he noted, "is making money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1925 remark by Harold Ross, founder of The New Yorker, has David Rusk, right, a publisher in Dubuque, Iowa, firing back at New York. But not all the locals are up in arms. "I love The New Yorker," said Betty Baule, above. (Photographs by Mark Hirsch for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORKER (MAGAZINE); JULIEN'S JOURNAL (MAGAZINE) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORKER (MAGAZINE); JULIEN'S JOURNAL (MAGAZINE) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBUQUE (IOWA); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LITERACY RATES (65%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (65%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; RUSK, DAVID; ROSS, HAROLD JOHN F KENNEDY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



110 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Struggles in His Past, Burdens in His Present

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
The life of C. W. Bill Young, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, arguably the most powerful body in Congress, sounds like the world's saddest country-and-western song.
He grew up in a shotgun shack in a dirt-poor Pennsylvania coal town during the Depression. His father fled. The river washed away the shack when he was 6. His mother fell ill, and he dropped out of high school to support her by hauling concrete blocks and mixing mortar. 
 "In my short life," said Mr. Young, a 68-year-old Republican who has represented the St. Petersburg, Fla., area in the House for nearly 30 years, "I've been shot, I've been hit by a truck, survived an airplane crash, I've had my chest opened and my heart rebuilt. And it's sort of hard to get me flustered after all that."
Utterly unacquainted with money and power in his youth, Mr. Young is now burdened with both. On his shoulders, which are as wide as a side of beef, rest $538 billion and the prestige of the Republican Party.
Without benefit of a high-school diploma but with a penchant for numbers, the uncannily genial Mr. Young is responsible, as Appropriations chairman, for deciding how to spend that huge sum to run the Government. Thirteen subcommittees wrangle over 13 spending bills that provide the money, for the fiscal year beginning on Oct. 1. Mr. Young presides over all of them with extraordinary patience while squabbling swirls around him.
The process began with House Republican leaders freezing or cutting money for almost every agency except the Pentagon, which got a $19 billion increase. Then hundreds of members came privately to Mr. Young seeking some $80 billion in new spending, much of it for pet programs. "We had to say no to an awful lot of them," he noted.
He has since marched 10 of the 13 bills through the House, often in midnight sessions and not without fierce floor fights undertaken by conservative colleagues determined to cut all the bills to the bone and sometimes even deeper. All the while, he has been surrounded by lawmakers' incessant snarling and sniping over how to spend the people's treasure, a battle with all the grace and subtlety of greedy children pouncing on their parents' inheritance.
If that battle is not settled soon, and the bills cannot be enacted by the end of September, Congress may be facing alternative fiascoes: The lawmakers could wind up in a spending free-for-all in which they define some routine expenditures as emergency appropriations, exempt from painful spending caps. Or, if the spending process collapses, the Government could be shut down, and Republicans might well be burdened again by wrath from a public that perceives them as incapable of making the Federal trains run on time. Any festering of that anger, Mr. Young knows, could cost the Republicans their tiny House majority, now just five votes.
Yet he displays a calm that in another man might be attributed to either Zen meditation or mood medication. His secret?
"I've got so many scars on my back," he said, "I don't feel the whip anymore."
The lash keeps falling, wielded mostly by his fellow Republicans, some of whom want even deeper cuts than the $26 billion by which spending on domestic programs for next year has already been reduced, relative to this year's budget. Under the caps, that spending, excluding entitlements, has dropped to 3.4 percent of the American economy, its lowest level since 1962.
"You're talking about medical research, education, embassy security, problems all around the world, immigration problems all along our borders, all the law-enforcement agencies, including the F.B.I.," Mr. Young said.
Mr. Young is juggling a few billion here and a few billion there to keep the troops in line, but he concedes that this is no solution.
"We're robbing Peter to pay Paul," he said. "Trouble is, Peter doesn't have anything more to rob."
Through the 16-hour days, he needs every inch of the tough hide he picked up during his hard youth and a political lifetime spent mostly in the minority.
Born into poverty in 1930 in Harmarville, Pa., near Pittsburgh, Mr. Young had few prospects before him. He was 16 when he was shot in a hunting accident, and then things got worse.
"My mother got quite sick," he said in an interview in his committee's suite, all gilded mirrors and glittering chandeliers. "My uncle had a little camp in Florida. This camp was a tent, really. But we went down there. Then my mother got really sick. She was in the hospital in a coma. So I went to work. We stayed in Florida. Less expensive to stay there than try to get back home."
"It was very difficult to find jobs," he said. "I carried cement blocks, mixed mortar. I had left school, and I didn't have anybody in the family closer than a thousand miles to help me get a job or to get an introduction to anything."
Finally, he said, at 25 "I realized, 'I got to get out of this rut.' " He applied for a job as a salesman with the Federated Mutual Implement and Hardware Insurance Company. And the way he got it boded well.
"They were very reluctant to hire me, because I did not have a formal education," he remembered. "And they gave me a test. They gave you a list of numbers, and you were to figure out the missing numbers and tell them what those numbers meant. And they said I was the only one who had ever answered these questions correctly. I could see the patterns."
This turns out to be a useful skill for Mr. Young, who now has to find missing billions and pattern them in politically acceptable ways.
Mr. Young found insurance a very good living. The St. Petersburg area, where he worked, was booming with Yankee newcomers -- many of them Republicans -- and he made his fortune. In 1960, he went into a new line of work, becoming the only Republican state senator in Florida. He ran for Congress in 1970, and survived a campaign-trail plane crash to win his seat.
His 10 years in the minority in Tallahassee were followed by 24 years in the minority in the House,until the Republicans took control there in 1994 for the first time in four decades. Now Mr. Young has real power. But he seems to have sympathy for people who do not.
"In the minority, I got shot down a lot," he said with a weary smile. "I received a lot of scars. Political scars. They taught me a lot."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: C. W. Bill Young, up from poverty, now must juggle billions. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); COUNTRY MUSIC (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (54%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; YOUNG, C W BILL (REPR) C W BILL YOUNG (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



111 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Dow Chemical Says It Plans to Buy Union Carbide

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Dow Chemical Company said yesterday that it was acquiring the Union Carbide Corporation for $9.3 billion in stock in a deal that would join two household names and create a chemical giant second only to DuPont in size.
Although neither company makes consumer products any longer, names they made famous, like Dow oven cleaner and the former Union Carbide brands Prestone antifreeze, Eveready batteries and Glad bags, still show up on supermarket shelves, made by others. 
 Dow and Union Carbide now make lesser-known products like polypropylene and ethylene glycol, so-called intermediate and basic chemicals that crop up in everything from computers to food wrapping.
Declining profit and a cyclical slump in chemical prices put Union Carbide in the market for a partner, and Dow is counting on trimming its already low costs even further to help it compete in a rapidly consolidating market. The merged company, which will have combined revenue of about $24 billion, expects annual savings of about $500 million.
The new company, which will keep the Dow name and be based in Dow's current home, Midland, Mich., plans to eliminate about 2,000 jobs, leaving a global work force of about 49,000. Although Union Carbide -- and presumably its headquarters in Danbury, Conn. -- will cease to exist as a separate entity, neither company would confirm that the Danbury operations would be shut down or where the cuts would be.
"Dow has a number of businesses outside Midland, and maybe we'll run some functions out of Danbury," said William S. Stavropoulos, Dow's chief executive and the man who will head the merged company. "This is for the merger integration team to decide."
Despite the size of the new Dow, there are so many chemical companies scattered across the globe that the merged company is unlikely to command more than 12 percent of the market for any one chemical market. Thus, analysts say it is unlikely to run into antitrust obstacles.
Carbide's investors have seen their investment stagnate in recent years. But yesterday Carbide's shares soared, to $59.375, up $10.5625. In contrast, Dow stock went down by $6.0625, to $118.625, on the prospect that the company will issue new shares to close the deal.
Carbide is one of the 30 companies that make up the Dow Jones industrial average -- a spot that some on Wall Street speculated would go to the Microsoft Corporation but that history suggests may be taken by the merged company.
The merger comes at a time when the companies that make building-block chemicals -- look-alike products like ethylene and propylene that are sold by the ton and differentiated primarily by price -- have been joining forces throughout the world. Lyondell Chemical, Millennium Chemicals and Occidental Petroleum pooled their basic chemical businesses, while oil mergers like that of Exxon and Mobil are creating huge chemical entities in addition to oil giants.
Merger mania has also embraced companies that make specialty chemicals -- inks, foams and other technologically complex products with small niche markets and high margins.
Dow and Union Carbide have products in both camps, yet both have marched against a broader trend in the chemical industry -- the shift of many basic chemical companies toward agricultural chemicals, pharmaceuticals and other so-called life sciences businesses.
That may be one reason that DuPont seems unfazed by the prospect of a huge new competitor.
"The term 'chemical company' doesn't accurately reflect the DuPont of today," said Catherine L. Andriadis, a DuPont spokeswoman. "DuPont is a science company with a highly diversified portfolio, and there are few areas where we compete with either Dow or Union Carbide."
Dow and Union Carbide, in contrast, have remained focused on using technology to become both the lowest-cost producers of older-style chemicals as well as finding more uses for them.
Union Carbide is among the largest makers of polyethylene and polypropylene, two of the most commonly used plastics. It is also a leading supplier of solvents and other chemicals to the paint industry, and of various chemicals used in automotive, wire and cable and personal care products.
Dow, too, makes many forms of plastics and solvents. But Dow, more than Carbide, has narrowed its sights in the last six years. It sold its consumer products business to S. C. Johnson & Company two years ago and also shed its share in the drug company Marion Merrill Dow. And while it has acquired some agricultural technologies, it has expanded primarily by beefing up its existing solvents, coatings and other process chemicals. It has squeezed $2.2 billion out of its costs, and its profits and stock price have risen accordingly. "This merger now is jump-starting the growth phase of our strategy," Mr. Stavropoulos said.
Union Carbide has a less successful tale to tell. The company exited consumer products in 1985, primarily to raise cash to fight off an unwanted takeover attempt. It has formed numerous strategic partnerships with other chemical companies over the last few years, but few analysts have been able to define a coherent strategy for growth. Although its stock has run up nicely since April, most say it was because of renewed interest in chemical stocks in general, not any investor love for Union Carbide.
"Union Carbide has long been seen as a disappointment," said James N. Kelleher, an analyst with Argus Research. "It remained static while everyone around was taking aggressive steps, and that was the same as stepping backward."
Indeed, the company was badly hit by the Asian economic crisis and by costly problems at its plant in Kuwait. To bolster lagging shareholder confidence, William H. Joyce, Carbide's chief executive, promised that he and several of his senior team would forgo their base salaries if earnings did not hit $4 a share in 2000; few analysts were expecting earnings to even hit $3.
The merger, thus, may be saving Mr. Joyce and his executives a lot of money. But, in a sense, it is costing them their jobs. Mr. Joyce, 63, will be vice chairman of the new company and will lead the integration team but is unlikely to be involved in day-to-day operations. And only one other Union Carbide person will join the Dow board.
"A significant proportion of Carbide's management will not be with Dow Chemical a couple of years down the road," said Paul T. Leming, an analyst with ING Barings.
Most analysts agree that the sum of the two companies will be far greater than either part. Dow says the merger will add to earnings from Day One, and that within two years it will have wrung $500 million a year out of the merged company's annual costs. Analysts believe them -- and expect the picture to get even rosier over the next few years, when chemical prices are expected to rise.
Although the two companies have some overlapping product lines, they have far more that are complementary. Both, for example, sell various chemicals to paint makers; now they will be able to offer large customers like Sherwin Williams one-stop shopping.
Under the terms of the deal, Union Carbide shareholders will receive 0.537 share of Dow for each share of Union Carbide.
Based on both stock's closing price on Tuesday, that meant the deal was valued at $9.3 billion. Dow will also assume $2.3 billion in Union Carbide debt.
Both companies have survived potentially catastrophic lawsuits and public outrage over the last few decades.
In the early 1970's, Union Carbide had the dubious distinction of being named one of the nation's dirtiest companies by the Council of Economic Priorities, a corporate-responsibility gadfly group. And in 1984, the company got worldwide notoriety when one of its plants in Bhopal, India, leaked toxic gas, eventually killing as many as 10,000 people. Union Carbide paid a $470 million settlement in India's Supreme Court in 1989.
Dow, meanwhile, was the target of widespread student protests in the 1960's because it made napalm -- jellied gasoline -- for use in the Vietnam War. Dow was the focus of litigation over the defoliant Agent Orange, and its lethal byproduct, dioxin, which many Vietnam War veterans said caused severe illness. The company was also embroiled in litigation over silicon breast implants, made by its joint venture, Dow Corning, which some women said caused health problems. Dow Corning has offered to pay $3.2 billion to settle the claims.
Few of those cases represent financial threats for the future, analysts said. Still, the bitter aftertastes continue to tarnish their corporate reputations. "Those issues have had lingering impacts on their valuations on Wall Street," said Mr. Leming, the analyst.
But even environmentalists acknowledge that both companies are making strides to clean up their act.
"They have demonstrated efforts to improve their environmental performance," said Romi I. Gottfrid, an environmental research associate at the Council on Economic Priorities, who cited the merger as an opportunity for the combined company "to emerge as an environmental leader in the chemical industry."
Goldman, Sachs & Company advised Dow on the transaction, while Credit Suisse First Boston advised Union Carbide. Mayer, Brown & Platt provided legal advice to Dow. Sullivan & Cromwell advised Union Carbide.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Chemical Compound"
 
A merger between the Dow Chemical Company and the Union Carbide Corporation will create the world's second-largest chemical company.
 
DOW
 
HEADQUARTERS: Midland, Mich.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE: William S. Stavropoulos
EMPLOYEES: 39,029
MARKET CAP: $26.1 billion
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 20.45
REVENUES (1998): $18.4 billion
NET INCOME (1998): $1.3 billion
SOME PRODUCTS: Styrofoam insulation, a host of plastics and chemicals, insecticides, herbicides and chemicals used in dry cleaning, paint and antifreeze.
 
UNION CARBIDE
 
HEADQUARTERS: Danbury, Conn.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE: William H. Joyce
EMPLOYEES: 11,627
MARKET CAP: $7.9 billion
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 52.54
REVENUES (1998): $5.7 billion
NET INCOME (1998): $403 million
SOME PRODUCTS: Chemicals used to make polyester fibers, antifreeze, wire insulation, cleaners, trash bags, latex for paints and adhesives.
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Hoover's Handbook)(pg. C6)
 
"Chemical Power"
The merger of Dow Chemical and Union Carbide would create the world's largest manufacturer of chemicals used in a variety of plastics products. All figures are projections for 1999.
 
ETHYLENE PRODUCTION
Primary component of most plastics products
COMBINED WORLDWIDE MARKET SHARE: 8%
RANK: 1
 
HIGH-DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
Used in plastic garbage cans, cereal box liners and grocery bags
COMBINED WORLDWIDE MARKET SHARE: 4%
RANK: 3
 
LOW-DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
Used in plastic bottles, packaged food wrapping and dry cleaning bags
COMBINED WORLDWIDE MARKET SHARE: 7%
RANK: 1
 
LINEAR LOW-DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
Used in garbage bags, tops for butter and coffee containers and outdoor gym sets
COMBINED WORLDWIDE MARKET SHARE: 11%
RANK: 1
 
(Source: Salomon Smith Barney)(pg. C6)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (97%); DOW (NYSE) (97%); DOW (LSE) (97%); 4850 (TSE) (97%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (61%); OXY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (50%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (50%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO; UNION CARBIDE CORP; DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO DOW CHEMICAL CO (97%); UNION CARBIDE CORP (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (61%); MILLENNIUM CHEMICALS INC (50%); MILLENNIUM CHEMICALS LE HAVRE SAS (50%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (50%); DOW&UNION CARBIDE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW CHEMICAL CO; UNION CARBIDE CORP; DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO DOW&UNION CARBIDE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDLAND (MICH); UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL CHEMICALS (95%); CHEMICALS MFG (95%); LAYOFFS (90%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS MFG (90%); BASIC CHEMICALS MFG (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); ETHYLENE (89%); MERGERS (89%); ALIPHATICS (89%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (89%); POLYMERS (78%); CHEMICALS TRADE (78%); POLYOLEFINS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PROPYLENE (78%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE CHEMICALS MFG (76%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (73%); CLEANERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); POLYPROPYLENE (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; STAVROPOULOS, WILLIAM S; JOYCE, WILLIAM H

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



112 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Chemical to Acquire Union Carbide for $9 Billion
Dow Chemical said it was buying Union Carbide for $9.3 billion in stock in a deal that would join two household names and create a chemical giant second only to DuPont in size. Although neither company makes consumer products any longer, names they made famous, like Dow oven cleaner and Prestone antifreeze, are still common sights on supermarket shelves. 
 Declining profit and a slump in chemicals prices put Union Carbide in the market for a partner, and Dow hopes to reduce its already low costs even further to help it compete in a rapidly consolidating market. Page A1.
 
Cadbury Bottler's Future Uncertain
A pair of acquisitions by Cadbury Schweppes 18 months ago was supposed to have ended the company's heavy dependence on a fragmented network of independent bottlers to get its Dr. Pepper and 7-Up soft drink brands onto store shelves. But the Cadbury venture, called American Bottling, has run into problems and analysts say it may go on the block. C5. 
 
Factory Orders Post Strong Gain
Strong demand for automobiles and electronic equipment helped lift orders to United States factories by seven-tenths of 1 percent in June, a fresh sign of recovery for manufacturing. The increase followed a 1 percent gain in May, the Commerce Department said. Separately, the National Association of Purchasing Management reported that business activity outside the manufacturing sector expanded in July, but at a slower pace than in June. C12.
 
Steelmaker Gains U.S. Toehold
Gerdau, one of Brazil's biggest steelmakers, moved to expand its manufacturing operations into the United States with the acquisition of a 75 percent interest in Ameristeel from Kyoei Steel of Japan. C4.
 
Discounted Air Fares Draw Fire
Travel agents reacted with dismay to a new move by airlines to cut costs by offering consumers discounts on tickets booked on line. A Delta executive said on-line ticketing is far less expensive than traditional methods. C8.
 
Executive Won't Join E*Trade
E*Trade Group said that Frank J. Petrilli would remain at its rival, TD Waterhouse Group, instead of taking over E*Trade's retail brokerage business. C12.
 
A TV Deal in Europe Wobbles
A $615 million deal that would have united Central European Media Enterprises, founded by Ronald S. Lauder, and SBS Broadcasting of Luxembourg has been thrown into doubt by a dispute over Central European Media's only money-making asset, the Czech television station TV Nova. The former general director of TV Nova, Vladimir Zelezny, above, has tried to seize TV Nova's broadcasting license in a dispute that is now in the courts. C4.
 
Neuberger Berman Reveals Results
Neuberger Berman, a New York-based money manager planning to sell $250 million in common stock in an initial public offering this fall, said in a regulatory filing that net income for the first six months of the year was $141.1 million, a 5.8 percent decline. C10.
 
Agencies Taking a Regional Focus
A deal that will create a new agency owned by Omnicom Group is indicative of efforts by giant agency companies to augment their offerings in regional markets like Atlanta. The new agency, Bayless/Cronin, will result from the merger of Bayless & Partners with Merley Newman Harty's Atlanta office. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.
 
Merrill Plaintiffs Seek Mediation
Lawyers for the plaintiffs in a sex discrimination case against Merrill Lynch plan to pursue mediation for all 900 claims against the firm, rejecting its assertion that only a third of the claims may have merit. The claims involve female Merrill employees who said discrimination curbed their earning potential. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,674.77 down 2.54
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.09% down 0.07
The euro -- $1.077 up 0.01
The dollar -- 114.29 yen down 0.99
 
Graph tracks Cadbury Schweppes ADR's share price since Wednesday, July 28.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (92%); DOW (NYSE) (92%); DOW (LSE) (92%); 4850 (TSE) (92%); 5440 (TSE) (53%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (52%); CETV (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (53%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (85%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (73%); LUXEMBOURG (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (92%); CADBURY LTD (57%); KYOEI STEEL LTD (53%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (52%); TD WATERHOUSE GROUP INC (52%); CENTRAL EUROPEAN MEDIA ENTERPRISES LTD (51%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (85%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (73%); LUXEMBOURG (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CHEMICALS (94%); CHEMICALS MFG (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (88%); AIR FARES (86%); COMMON STOCK (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE CHEMICALS MFG (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (73%); CLEANERS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); AIRLINES (63%); STOCK OFFERINGS (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: REVEALS RESULTS NEUBERGER BERMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



113 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT PLANS TO BUY BACK BONDS AND SAVE INTEREST

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Like a family that suddenly finds itself with enough cash to pay off both its credit cards and its mortgage, the Clinton Administration moved today to take advantage of projected Federal budget surpluses by overhauling the way the Government handles its finances.
For the first time since 1972, the Treasury Department wants to buy back debt, a change in its strategy for handling the $3.6 trillion it owes to the public in the form of Treasury bonds and other securities as it seeks to minimize its interest expenses. 
 With the Government already running a budget surplus if its excess Social Security revenues are included, the Treasury has been using much of the extra money for the last two years to reduce the national debt.
The debt will decline by about $87 billion this year, and if the surplus grows as projected over the next decade, the pace of debt reduction could accelerate substantially.
As with most issues involving the surplus, this one is caught up in politics. President Clinton used the prospect of cost-efficient debt reduction as an argument today against the $792 billion, 10-year tax cut that the Republican-controlled Congress plans to pass in final form this week in the face of his veto threat. Page A18.
The centerpiece of the Administration's debt-reduction plan would allow the Treasury to buy back some high-interest-rate debt from investors before it matures and to replace it with new securities that carry lower interest rates. Much of the debt issued by the Treasury over the last three decades carries interest rates higher than those for Government securities being issued today.
While arcane, the changes have substantial implications for the bond markets, where the Government and private companies compete to borrow money. Page C1.
Details of the plan are still being worked out and it is unlikely to take effect until next year. Whether and when the plan might be carried out will depend in large part on interest rates remaining low enough for the debt buybacks to make sense. It would not require approval by Congress.
By itself, swapping high interest-rate debt for lower rate debt would not accelerate the pace of reducing the national debt, which depends on the growth of the surplus. But in general the Treasury is issuing progressively less new debt relative to the amount that is maturing or that might be repurchased.
"These prepayments -- in many ways analogous to a homeowner refinancing a mortgage or a company refinancing its debt -- would hold out the prospect for reducing Federal borrowing costs over time," said Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers.
Under its current policy, the Government has simply been paying off Treasury securities when they mature, regardless of their interest rate, and issuing smaller amounts of new debt in their place, an approach that limits its ability to swap higher cost debt for low-rate debt.
The Government has not bought back debt in any way since the Nixon Administration, and it has not repurchased debt for cash at least since World War II and probably not in this century, Treasury officials said.
And the changes are the leading edge of what could be even broader shifts in the nation's financial strategy as it confronts the possibility that it could substantially reduce or even wipe out the Government debt held by the public over the next 15 years.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the Government will generate $2.9 trillion more in revenues over the next decade than it needs to pay for its programs under current law. Of that, $1.9 trillion is nominally designated for Social Security, but in practice it is likely to go to reducing the debt held by the public. The two parties are fighting over what to do with the other $1 trillion.
Economists said the Treasury plan was a common-sense approach to making the most of the surplus.
But the debt plan could run into questions from some Republicans because it would require that the Government absorb some costs in the short run -- in the form of the premium it would have to pay to convince investors to sell their Treasury bonds -- to reap the interest savings in the long run.
Although the Administration did not say how big a debt repurchase plan the Treasury Department might undertake, or when it might begin, analysts said the short-term costs could be substantial enough to be a factor in the battle over the surplus, since the Republicans are counting on as much as possible of it for tax cuts. Congress is already heading toward spending all or most of next year's non-Social Security surplus to finance a variety of domestic programs.
"I'd much prefer to use that money for reductions in marginal tax rates," said Lawrence Kudlow, an economist and former Reagan Administration official who is influential with conservatives in Congress.
The techniques being developed by the Treasury Department "would, in effect, allow us to refinance old debt and pay it down on the best terms possible, saving taxpayers billions of dollars in the process," President Clinton said during an appearance in the White House Rose Garden this afternoon.
"Paying down the debt creates wealth, creates jobs, creates opportunity," Mr. Clinton said. "It's the right and responsible thing to do, and we have the chance of a lifetime to do it."
To protests from Republicans, who say their budget plans do more to reduce the national debt than his plan, Mr. Clinton has sought to frame the current debate over the surplus as a choice between an irresponsible Republican tax cut for the wealthy and a prudent division of money between debt reduction, increased spending and modest tax cuts for working people.
The debt securities issued by the Treasury generally are not callable -- that is, the Government cannot demand that investors sell them back. Instead, under the Treasury's new plan, the Government would announce that it is interested in buying back a particular bond issue, and then ask the investors who own it to name a price. Treasury would accept those offers that made sense to it.
Gary Gensler, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance, used the following example to illustrate how the debt plan would work. In November 1991, the Government sold a 30-year bond carrying an interest rate of 8 percent. The bond currently trades in the market at an interest rate of 6.41 percent.
Treasury could repurchase that bond, and replace it with a combination of 30-year bonds, which currently carry a rate of 6.16 percent, and 10-year bonds, which currently trade at 5.95 percent, giving an average rate of around 6.07 percent.
Over the years, even tiny reductions in interest costs could yield substantial savings to the Government. Mr. Summers said today that for every three one-hundredths of a percentage point in reduced interest rates on the total debt, the Government ultimately saves $1 billion a year in interest costs.
But beyond just swapping high-rate debt for lower rate debt, Mr. Gensler said, the plan would increase the volume of new bonds being issued by Treasury.
Because new bonds are more actively traded than older ones, and can be more easily bought and sold, investors are willing to pay a bit more for them, meaning their interest rates are lower.
It is that increase in the tradability of the bonds, and the corresponding decrease in interest rates, that could bring the biggest benefits to the taxpayer, Mr. Gensler said.
Keeping the market for the bonds active is a major goal of the plan, Mr. Gensler said, because as the national debt falls, Treasury is issuing fewer and fewer new bonds and other securities. Over the last 12 months the Treasury had made 26 debt offerings, he said; in the prior year the number was 39. Just today Mr. Gensler announced that Treasury would sell its 30-year bonds twice a year from now on instead of three times.
Economists said such problems could become more acute if the national debt eventually approached zero. The market for United States securities is the worldwide benchmark for safety and security in investments, and if it were to dry up it could make it more difficult to judge relative risks of various investments.
The Treasury would want to find a way to keep an active market in Government securities in case a war, a deep recession or some other event led the Government to need to borrow a lot of money quickly.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, reflected in a glass door, on his way to the Rose Garden, where he spoke of buying back securities to reduce the national debt. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 
Chart: "Retiring Debt, Little by Little"
 
The Treasury plans to pay off some of its debt before it is due by holding what is called a reverse auction.
 
ISSUING DEBT -- For years, the Treasury has issued short- and long-term debt to pay for budget shortfalls.
 
BUYING IT BACK -- Now, the Treasury wants to buy back debt that carries the highest interest rates. It will tell dealers who buy Government debt which notes it wants to buy and how many of them.
 
SETTING A PRICE -- The dealers will tell the Treasury how much of a premium over the face value of the notes they will sell them for and the Treasury will accept some of the offers.
 
PAYING FOR THE NOTES -- Some money from the Federal budget surplus will be used to buy the debt. But, to keep the Treasury market working properly, the Government will also issue new notes to pay for some of the old notes. (pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) LAWRENCE H STEIN (50%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) TREASURY DEPARTMENT (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); VETO (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); APPROVALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); TAX LAW (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



114 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Time at the Apollo: Time Warner to Control Board

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN and RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
State officials are working out final details of an arrangement that would give Time Warner a controlling role in rescuing Harlem's financially troubled Apollo Theater, officials and corporate executives said yesterday.
The negotiations are also expected to resolve a lawsuit brought by the state accusing a six-member majority of the Apollo board of failing to collect millions of dollars owed the theater by Percy E. Sutton, a prominent businessman and former Manhattan Borough President. The settlement would require Mr. Sutton and his associates to repay $1 million to the theater, according to people involved in the negotiations. A company controlled by Mr. Sutton produces "It's Showtime at the Apollo," a weekly variety program for television. 
 The agreement is expected to be presented to the Apollo's board at its meeting on Monday. The settlement would also include a financial contribution from Time Warner, estimated at $400,000 to $500,000.
As part of the settlement, United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, a powerful Harlem Democrat, would step down as chairman of the theater's nine-member board and would be replaced by the actor Ossie Davis, and Time Warner would add 10 people from the entertainment industry to the board, expanding it to 19 members, said Richard D. Parsons, the president of Time Warner. The theater, once Harlem's golden stage on 125th Street, is owned by the state but operated by the nonprofit Apollo Theater Foundation.
The close involvement of Time Warner, the world's largest entertainment and media company, with revenues last year of nearly $27 billion, was supported by State Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer as a way to bail out the long-deteriorating Apollo, where Duke Ellington, Ella Fitzgerald, Nat (King) Cole and other legends entertained.
Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, the agency that owns the theater, said the state had approved Time Warner's plans to take control of the board and was eager for the rescue effort to begin.
The suit's settlement has been stalled for weeks while lawyers for Mr. Rangel and Mr. Sutton negotiated with the State Attorney General's office over how to resolve the accusations made last November in a lawsuit filed by Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco. Mr. Rangel and five other board members were accused of failing to collect at least $4 million from Inner City Theater Group, a company controlled by Mr. Sutton, a close friend and longtime political ally of the Congressman.
Mr. Rangel has repeatedly said he will not sign an agreement that did not exonerate him. He said yesterday that the precise wording was still being negotiated.
"I don't need anybody to vouch for my honesty," said the Congressman, a 15-term House veteran and the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. Sutton, who became a defendant in the lawsuit last month at his own request, is also seeking language that would clear his name.
"Percy Sutton has acted honorably at all times in his relationship with the Apollo Theater," said Peter Parcher, one of his lawyers, "and if there is a resolution, it will reflect that fact."
The complaint said Mr. Sutton was required to give the theater 25 percent of his gross profits from the show, which would have amounted to $4 million over a five-year period. But Mr. Sutton and Mr. Rangel said the contract they signed included confusing language that had been misinterpreted and that the show had consistently lost money.
In April, Mr. Spitzer, who replaced Mr. Vacco as Attorney General, came up with another figure, saying the theater was owed "well over one million." Mr. Spitzer said in a letter to the foundation's lawyers that this figure was derived from an audit commissioned by the theater. But lawyers for the foundation have said he misread the audit.
Mr. Spitzer would not speak on the record about the proposed settlement yesterday. But lawyers working on the case said that an agreement was expected to be reached before Monday's meeting of the Apollo Theater Foundation board. The new members would be added at that meeting.
Time Warner officials provided details of their role for the first time yesterday. The company's involvement is not a surprise. Mr. Rangel and Mr. Parsons, who have worked together on Harlem economic development issues, have said they have long wanted to bring Time Warner into the Apollo. In March, the company said it was eager to adopt the Apollo, but only if the allegations of wrongdoing had been cleared up.
Outlining his company's plans yesterday, Mr. Parsons said George Wein, the jazz impresario who created the Newport Jazz Festival, and six other people, three of them officials of Time Warner, had agreed to join the board.
The new board members will also include Val Azzoli, the co-chairman of Atlantic Records, a Time Warner subsidiary; Keith Clinkscale, the former chief executive of Vibe, a publication owned by Time Warner; Byron Lewis, the founder of Uniworld, an advertising and marketing agency aimed at African-American consumers, and Jonelle Procope-Terrell, a lawyer.
Although Time Warner will control the board, Mr. Parsons denied that the company was taking over the theater. "It's definitely not a takeover," he said. "It's a partnership that we're forming between Time Warner and the Apollo Theater Foundation." Company officials said the entertainment company would not run the theater, and would not have the power to hire or fire its executives.
Among the first issues facing the new board will be whether to approve or rebid a multiyear contract for Mr. Sutton's company to distribute "It's Showtime at the Apollo" for forthcoming television seasons.
A rival distributor, Frank Mercado-Valdes, president of the African Heritage Network, whose charges of favoritism led to the state investigation last year, said yesterday that he had considered it futile to bid on a new contract under the existing board, but said he would like to do so now with a new board in charge.
Time Warner's contribution will be part of a financial package that will include Mr. Sutton's settlement as well as some city, state and Federal government money and charitable donations. About $400,000 is expected to come from the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone.
Mr. Parsons is the chairman of that program, which uses Federal, state and city money to stimulate economic development. Mr. Gargano said the Empire State Development Corporation had already agreed to give the theater $300,000, but the money was held up pending resolution of the lawsuit.
Acknowledging that the sums were small, Mr. Parsons said his company would help start an endowment campaign to raise more money for the theater, which he described as a cornerstone for economic development in Harlem.
"I don't think you can bring life back to Harlem without bringing life back to 125th Street," he said, "and you've got to start with the Apollo." Reviving the theater would also spur other development, including new restaurants.
Under the proposed agreement, Mr. Sutton and some of his associates in the Apollo deal would be responsible for repaying the $1 million that Mr. Spitzer contended last April was due the Apollo foundation out of profits reaped by the distributors, according to an audit by the accounting firm KMPG.
His predecessor, Mr. Vacco, had contended that as much as $4.4 million was owed to the foundation, but after reviewing the audit, Mr. Spitzer said that $1 million was a fairer figure.
The initial dispute between the state and Mr. Sutton and Mr. Rangel centered on whether the percentage due the foundation was to come from net or gross profits.
The foundation later sued its lawyers at White & Case, an action not affected by the proposed agreement.
Some of the money going to the Apollo will be used to replace the theater's dilapidated marquee and broken-down seats and to create a souvenir shop, Mr. Parsons said. But he said that the theater was in "functionally sound shape" and needed to attract top performers and large audiences even more than it needed renovation. Most nights the fabled theater is dark.
Mr. Parsons said the goal was to bring "interesting and inspired multidimensional programming" to the theater, perhaps by using it for a new television talk show starring the rap performer Queen Latifah, or for movie premieres or televised beauty pageants.
Mr. Rangel said he was delighted that Time Warner was finally getting involved in the theater, but he emphasized that he, and not the Attorney General, should be given the credit for bringing in the company.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Percy E. Sutton in the newly renovated Apollo Theater in 1985. His company produces "It's Showtime at the Apollo," a weekly program. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (93%); NAICS517510 CABLE AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE AND VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: APOLLO THEATER (HARLEM); TIME WARNER INC EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER (HARLEM); TIME WARNER INC APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); THEATER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; SUTTON, PERCY CHARLES B RANGEL (79%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



115 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Despite Promises by U.S., Serbs Are Forced to Flee
Kosovar Albanians are now intimidating Serbs just as the Serbs intimidated them a few months ago, and Serbs are fleeing ethnically mixed villages for the relative safety of purely Serb ones. On Sunday, despite American promises of protection, all the Serbs in one town south of Pristina demanded and received an armed American escort to make their way out of Kosovo. A3
 
Changing of Guard at NATO
Defense Secretary George Robertson of Britain was appointed to be NATO's next Secretary General. Mr. Robertson will probably take up his duties as NATO's senior civilian official in Brussels in October. A3 

Holbrooke Vote Clears Hurdle
The way was cleared for Richard C. Holbrooke to win Senate confirmation as the American delegate to the United Nations. Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, said he was releasing a "hold" that had prevented a final Senate vote. A6
 
Mexican Opposition Uniting
Mexico's main opposition parties, which embrace widely varying ideologies, are reporting progress in negotiations to form an alliance against the governing party in general elections next year. A9
 
India Nears One Billion Mark
The population of India will officially cross the one billion mark just in time for Indian Independence Day on Aug. 15. With a population growing at 1.6 percent a year, India is expected to overtake China as the most populous nation in four decades. A10
 
French Minister Visits Algeria
The French Foreign Minister met with the Algerian President last weekend, laying the groundwork for renewing relations between France and its former colony. A10
 
Peru Pulls Lawyers From Court
Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori withdrew the lawyers who were to represent his Government before an international court in a suit filed by an television station owner charging that he was stripped of his Peruvian citizenship solely because of his channel's reporting. Three weeks ago, Peru's Congress passed a resolution that challenged the court's authority. A11
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A12-20
 
White House Unveils Plan To Retire Some U.S. Debt
The Clinton Administration moved to take advantage of projected Federal budget surpluses by changing its strategy for handling the $3.6 trillion it owes to the public in the form of Treasury bonds and other securities. The Treasury plans to repurchase high-interest-rate debt from investors before it matures, and replace it with new securities that carry lower interest rates. A1
 
Congress moved closer to spending most of the projected surplus in next year's budget with two "emergency" measures to aid farmers and conduct the 2000 census. A20
 
President Clinton renewed his vow to veto a sweeping tax-cut bill as Republican leaders tried to make sure that they had the votes to pass the plan Senate and House negotiators approved Tuesday night. A18
 
New Logging War in Northwest
Five years after the Clinton Administration hammered out a plan to settle legal and environmental disputes over logging in the Pacific Northwest, the region's timber wars are flaring up again. The same Federal judge who acted to protect the northern spotted owl has now blocked nine major logging deals by declaring that the Government has failed to take proper steps to protect other species. A18
 
A Hard Lesson Gets Harder
A Milwaukee teen-ager, paralyzed from the neck down in an accidental shooting that left a friend dead, faces trial for murder in the case. Prosecutors said they charged the boy, Eduardo Rivera, 16, because they wanted to send a message about playing with guns. A12
 
Mixed News on Computers
The lights are expected to stay on and the telephones work on Jan. 1, because the computers that control them are ready for the shift to the year 2000, but other computers may not work, like the ones that issue report cards and teachers' paychecks, a Government report says. A13
 
No Excuses, Clintons Say
President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton both said that they were not trying to make excuses for Mr. Clinton's marital infidelities, as may have been suggested by Mrs. Clinton's recent comments that he was abused as a child. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Expulsion of Gay Boy Scout Ruled Illegal in New Jersey
Equating the Boy Scouts with such public accommodations as restaurants, libraries and theaters, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that the 1990 expulsion of James Dale, a gay Eagle scout, violated a state anti-discrimination law. A1
 
Welfare Study Details Changes
The most detailed analysis yet of what has become of hundreds of thousands of people who have left New York State's welfare rolls in recent years shows that two-thirds found work in the year after they stopped receiving assistance. A1
 
Deal Is Seen for Apollo Theater
State officials are on the verge of settling a lawsuit involving the Apollo Theater and are working out final details of a deal that would include a controlling role for Time Warner Inc. in rescuing the Harlem landmark. It also calls for a $1 million repayment to the theater by Percy E. Sutton, the former Manhattan Borough President, and some associates. B1
 
PCB Risk Cited in Hudson River
The Environmental Protection Agency reported that PCB's pose an unacceptably high risk of cancer and other ills in people who eat fish from the northern reaches of the Hudson River, a finding that could lead to an order to dredge the river. B1
 
Queens Film Studio Expands
Despite the hoopla over plans for a Hollywood-style movie studio at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Kaufman Astoria Studios is expanding its entertainment complex and solidifying western Queens's position as the center of the city's burgeoning television and film production industry. B1
 
Lobbying Limits Win Support
Legislative leaders said they would support tighter restrictions on lobbying state lawmakers, abruptly shifting course after it was disclosed that lobbyists for the world's largest cigarette maker had spent tens of thousands of dollars in recent years on gifts for lawmakers. B1
 
ARTS E1-10
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Dow Buying Union Carbide
The Dow Chemical Company is acquiring the Union Carbide Corporation for $9 billion in stock. The deal will create a $24 billion chemical behemoth second only to DuPont in size and joins two household names, although neither makes consumer products any longer. A1
 
Monsanto Faces a Backlash
After spending more than $8 billion in the past two years to acquire some of the world's largest seed companies and millions more to pioneer in the development of genetically engineered foods, the Monsanto Company is facing growing skepticism about its debt management and mounting resistance to some of its bio-engineered crops. C1
 
Internet Stocks Tumble
Internet stocks suffered another pummeling as the technology-laden Nasdaq market slumped for the fifth consecutive day. The Dow fell 2.54 points, to 10,674.77, and the Standard & Poor's index declined 16.85 points, to 1,305.33. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
OBITUARIES A21
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: North Korea's dangerous missiles; bigotry in the Boy Scouts; pricing the past; day traders as gamblers.
Columns: Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E8
 
TV Listings E9
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (94%); FRANCE (93%); INDIA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); BELGIUM (57%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (94%); FRANCE (93%); INDIA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); BELGIUM (57%); IOWA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); VETO (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CENSUS (68%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); TAX LAW (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); LITIGATION (63%); DENATURALIZATION (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (68%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



116 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: First Lady Hears of Economic Fears, but Marriage Is Hot Topic

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

DATELINE: JAMESTOWN, N.Y. Aug. 4

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton resumed her exploratory trip to New York today, listening to an assortment of complaints about the sluggish economy of western New York and facing a barrage of media questions about comments she made in a magazine article about her husband's marital infidelity.
It was Mrs. Clinton's first public comment on the subject of her marriage since the appearance of the article, which was published this week in the premiere issue of Talk magazine. In that article, Mrs. Clinton said she thought President Clinton had overcome his womanizing 10 years ago. She also said that he was scarred by abuse he suffered as a child. 
 Many news reports and columns have linked Mrs. Clinton's remarks about the President's womanizing and his childhood. But while Mrs. Clinton's comments on the two subjects appear in the same part of the article, she is not quoted citing cause and effect.
Today, in response to reporters' questions, she said she had not intended to offer her husband's childhood problems as an excuse for his behavior.
In Washington, President Clinton also addressed the article, saying that nobody "could fairly read the article and think that she was making any excuses for me."
After answering the questions about her marriage, Mrs. Clinton, who has avoided discussing her personal life publicly, said she would no longer entertain such questions.
Her comments came during Mrs. Clinton's fourth so-called listening tour of the state since she began contemplating a run for the United States Senate. Her trip took her to the Crawford Furniture Manufacturing Company's factory here to listen to local business leaders, entrepreneurs and workers, as well as to a series of private meetings with local politicians, most prominently former Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine.
Before taking questions from reporters -- most concerning the magazine article -- Mrs. Clinton conducted her meeting with local citizens in a style very much like the others she has undertaken since forming an exploratory committee early last month to consider running for the Senate seat being vacated next year by Daniel Patrick Moynihan.
She sat in the middle of a semicircle of a few local leaders, facing a group of about 50 citizens -- registered Democrats and Republicans who were selected by the furniture plant's owner and the Chautauqua County Executive, Mark Thomas, who is a Democrat. On a plant floor covered with sawdust, Mrs. Clinton heard a wide range of concerns, from the high prices for airline travel to and from western New York, to the lack of trained personnel for high-skill jobs.
The format offered Mrs. Clinton a chance to speak at length on some issues, like the inequality between the Federal taxes New Yorkers pay and the money that Washington returns to the state. "It may be that we'll never get a dollar-for-dollar exchange," she said. "But we sure ought to get more than we're getting now. Were I in the Senate, I would try to create a coalition of the big states to stand up for our interests."
In some cases, playing the role of mere listener allowed her to brush aside other topics. For example, one woman offered a lengthy complaint about what she considered to be the detrimental effect of the North American Free Trade Agreement; Nafta passed in 1993, championed by President Clinton. To criticism that the trade agreement contributed to unemployment in the region, the First Lady offered only a brief but courteous, "Thank you very much."
The listening tours have all the trappings of a campaign in the weeks before an election -- complete with people lining the routes of Mrs. Clinton's events and a media caravan of dozens of reporters. But several of the people invited to today's discussion said they were keenly aware that Mrs. Clinton has not yet declared her candidacy for the 2000 election and they wondered whether she was serious about running.
"I get more interested in running every day," Mrs. Clinton said, responding to a reporter's question. "And I especially get interested when I can talk with people about the real issues that are confronting them and their lives. The more that I go around listening to New Yorkers, the more excited and encouraged I get that I might be able to make a contribution in the Senate on behalf of the people of New York." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CRAWFORD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); FURNITURE MFG (69%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); COUNTIES (63%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



117 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Europe Isn't Taking a Needed Fiscal Step

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Norbert Walter (Op-Ed, Aug. 4) doesn't mention the most important economic problem facing Europe. As many prominent economists have argued, one of the main reasons for high unemployment across Europe is the tight monetary policy being pursued by the European Central Bank. 
In 1992, when the United States was last in a downturn, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, lowered the short-term interest rate to the rate of inflation, making the real interest rate -- the gap between the interest rate and inflation rate -- in the United States virtually zero. Even after a recent rate cut, the real short-term interest rate in Europe is still close to 2 percent.
If Mr. Greenspan had pursued the same sort of monetary policy in the United States, it's a safe bet that the economy would not have grown as rapidly.
 
DEAN BAKER
Washington, Aug. 4, 1999
 
The writer is a senior research fellow, Preamble Center.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EURO (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TRENDS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); 

PERSON: WALTER, NORBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



118 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: Europe Isn't Taking a Needed Fiscal Step

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Unless day trading is checked, this speculative fever may lead to social, economic and financial disasters (news article, July 31). The Federal Reserve should prohibit the extension of margin loans to day traders and limit commercial banks' lending to day trading brokerage firms. Higher capital requirements on these firms should be imposed. Regulators should mandate that funds devoted to day trading by any day trader should be restricted by that individual's overall net financial resources. 
 And regulators should limit the number of trades by an individual day trader and his brokerage firm on any given day.
 
E. MAGNUS OPPENHEIM
New York, Aug. 1, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

PERSON: OPPENHEIM, E MAGNUS E MAGNUS OPPENHEIM NEW YORK (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



119 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Veto Looming, G.O.P. Tries to Shore Up Tax Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
President Clinton renewed his vow today to veto a sweeping tax-cut bill, as Republican leaders began carefully counting to make sure they had the votes to pass the plan that Senate and House negotiators approved on Tuesday night.
Outside the public eye, the Congressional tax staff worked against tight deadlines to fill in the details of the negotiators' framework. 
 The House and Senate plan to vote on the measure before leaving this week for a monthlong recess.
The central element of the measure would reduce the lowest income tax rate, now 15 percent, to 14.5 percent in 2001 and to 14 percent in 2003.
The rates for more affluent taxpayers, now ranging from 28 percent to 39.6 percent, would also be reduced by one percentage point, but that would not happen until 2005.
Altogether, the legislation, an amalgam of bills approved last month by the Senate and House, would lower taxes by $792 billion over 10 years.
"If they conclude this plan and send it to me, I will veto it," President Clinton told reporters today in the Rose Garden. "I will refuse to sign any plan that signs away our commitment to America's future, to Social Security, to Medicare, to paying down the debt."
Republicans in the House met this morning, and leaders said afterward that the rank and file was enthusiastic about the bill and would pass it.
The situation is more ticklish in the Senate. The measure is now more favorable to the wealthy than the bill the Senate approved last week, 57 to 43. On that vote, four Democrats supported the bill and two Republicans voted against it.
The word from leaders' offices was that the four Democrats would vote against the new version, as would the two Republicans who voted no last week, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and George V. Voinovich of Ohio. Another Republican, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, is also expected to vote against the bill.
If all other senators stand pat, that would make the vote 52 to 48 in favor of the bill. But three other Republicans, John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both of Maine, were said to be on the fence.
One school of thought among Republicans is that the best possible outcome would be for the Senate to deadlock, 50 to 50, leaving Vice President Al Gore to cast the tie-breaking vote defeating the tax cut.
That kind of partisan calculation was rampant in the Capitol today. Everyone knows that the votes this week are for exercise and that one way or another this particular bill will never become law.
Musing on the situation, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, said it was like drawing up a Christmas list when you knew Santa was not coming.
Partisan maneuvering is the daily bread of Congress, but what makes this issue so unusual is that each side seems convinced that it has the political advantage.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the Ways and Means Committee, said he could hardly wait to present the tax-cut measure to the people during the Congressional recess.
"Republicans in the House and Senate have kept our commitment to protect the taxpayers and not the tax takers," Mr. Archer said.
Republican leaders have decided that even if Congress gives final approval to the legislation this week, they will not send it to the White House until after Labor Day. That will give them a month to promote it.
 Democrats were equally confident that they held the strong position.
"They're rolling the dice," Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said of the Republicans, "and in my view, they're going to come up the big losers here."
The bill the Republican leaders agreed on starts small and mushrooms over the next decade. The total tax reduction in 2000 would be only $5.2 billion. In the first five years, the cuts would total $156.1 billion, but they would continue to mount so that in 2009 alone, taxes would be reduced by $130 billion.
Calculations by the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche showed that a couple with two children under 17 and an income of $50,000, near the national median, would get an annual tax cut of $265 when the bill was fully in effect.
A similar couple with an income of $200,000 would get a tax cut of $2,720, and one with an income of $1 million would receive a cut of $9,861.
In percentage terms, the $50,000 couple would have taxes reduced 9 percent, while the taxes of the $200,000 couple would be lowered 7 percent and the taxes of the $1 million family would be reduced 3 percent.
Citizens for Tax Justice, an organization sponsored by labor unions that usually makes reliable calculations, figured that nearly half of the tax reduction from the rate cuts alone would go to the wealthiest 10 percent of taxpayers, those with incomes above $89,000.
Other provisions of the Republican bill would be even more favorable to the affluent, including a reduction in the top capital gains rate to 18 percent from 20 percent, effective Jan. 1, 1999, and a gradual abolition of the inheritance tax on large estates.
The bill would also adjust capital gains, the profits from investments, so that inflation after Jan. 1, 2000, would not be counted when the profits were figured. This provision would cost the Government significantly in the long run, but it would result in a short-term windfall.
In order to take advantage of the inflation adjustment, taxpayers would have to pay the capital gains tax in 2000 on profits accumulated to date. This would raise $15 billion in 2000. Without it, no tax cuts would be possible in 2000 without creating a budget deficit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (82%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (59%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



120 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: A New Idea of 'Get Me the Coast';
Hollywood's Major Competition Is in Western Queens

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Even as plans to create a Hollywood-style movie studio at the Brooklyn Navy Yard have seized all the attention, Kaufman Astoria Studios is expanding its entertainment complex and quietly solidifying the position of western Queens as the center of the city's flourishing television and film production industry.
Astoria Studios said yesterday that its $8.3 million project would include an 18,000-square-foot sound stage and support space in a new building on 36th Street, between 34th and 35th Avenues. It would be the seventh studio in the complex, which already has the largest sound stage east of Hollywood and is home to the CBS television comedy "Cosby" and the Children's Television Workshop programs "Sesame Street" and "Cinderelmo." The feature films shot at the studios include "Ransom," "First Wives Club" and "Marvin's Room." 
 "We're as close to a Hollywood studio as you're going to get on the East Coast," said Hal G. Rosenbluth, president of Kaufman Astoria Studios. "I'm thrilled. It's a project we've been working on for a long time."
Astoria Studios dates from the 1920's, when the film industry was based in New York and more than 110 silent movies were made there. After a drought in the early 1990's, film and television production is booming in New York, and studios like Astoria are desperate to capture more of the new business. The number of films shot in New York City jumped to 221 last year, from 69 in 1993. The number of television shooting days rose 113 percent to 7,680 during the same period.
The announcement by Astoria Studios comes only three months after Silvercup Studios in nearby Long Island City began work on a $20 million expansion, with five new sound stages of 16,000 square feet each. The HBO series "Sex and the City" and "The Sopranos" are shot at Silvercup, which with Astoria Studios, Paris Film Productions in Long Island City and Broadway Studios in Astoria account for about two-thirds of the film and television production space in New York City, industry executives.
But there are a number of other proposals for television and film studios, including the Navy Yard plan, which was unveiled in May by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. He said at the time that the city would subsidize a $150 million project by the actor Robert De Niro and Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax Films, to turn a 15-acre site into a glamorous film factory.
Many people in the industry welcomed the idea, but questioned the wisdom of building a dozen large and expensive sound stages all at once. New sound stages are expensive to build and operate because film producers, unlike office tenants, rent space for only a few months at a time and do not pay top dollar.
Complicating the situation further, the major studios began laying off workers and reducing the number of films in production this year because of declining profits. Last month, Dreamworks SKG abandoned its plan to build a $250 million studio in Los Angeles. And many companies are moving film and television production to Canada and Europe, where costs are considerably lower.
"It's a hard business in which to make money," said Alan Suna, chief executive of Silvercup Studios. "That's especially true when you have no long-term commitments."
The studios in New York say that a slowdown in film production this year has been offset by a continuing surge in the number of television and cable series being made here. But they say that the ambitious project at the Navy Yard could turn out to be a white elephant.
"It's a great idea," said Gary Paris of Paris Film Productions in Long Island City, where Kevin Costner recently completed "For the Love of the Game." "But it's not cost-effective. I don't think it's going to fly."
Walter L. McCaffrey, the City Councilman from western Queens who helped get the Astoria Studios project off the ground, also questioned the Giuliani administration's touting of a project in Brooklyn that could undermine the film and television industry in Queens, which is home to three of the five largest grip and lighting companies as well as major costume- and scene-building companies. Astoria Studios, in particular, operates under a long-term lease on city-owned land, he said. The Astoria Studios are also home to WFAN radio and to the Lifetime television studios.
"It's always been mind-boggling to me that we were sort of undercutting our own investment with the Navy Yard proposal," Mr. McCaffrey said yesterday. City officials say they can handle all the projects.
Although the De Niro project has been mired in disputes and has yet to lock down its financing, the City Council is providing a $2.5 million grant toward the $8.3 million expansion at Astoria Studios, while the Empire State Development Corporation is contributing $1.7 million in grants and loans and the city's Economic Development Corporation is lending $1.2 million.
"There is a genuine shortage of sound stages in New York," said Charles Gargano, chairman of the development corporation. "Unfortunately, sound stages aren't moneymakers. But without them, you could choke off the industry in New York."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The rendering at top shows the site of a sound stage planned by Kaufman Astoria Studios. Queens is a major production center for films and television. (Sean Daly, Windtunnel)(pg. B1)
 
Photo/Chart: "The Kaufman Astoria Complex"
 
1. Site of newest sound stage (18,000 square feet) and support space.
 
2. Original Kaufman Astoria building, built in 1920.
 
3. Museum of the Moving Image.
 
4. Offices and special-effects labs.
 
5. Site of new16-screen Regal Cinema, to open on Labor Day.
 
6. Empty offices, to be included in future expansions.
 
7. Former army barracks; may become the Frank Sinatra School of Entertainment.
 
(Source: Kaufman Studios; rendering from Jansen Design Group)(pg. B8)
 
Map of Queens shows locations of several film studios. (pg. B1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: KAUFMAN ASTORIA STUDIOS (NYC); BROADWAY STUDIOS (NYC); SILVERCUP STUDIOS (NYC) CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (70%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (59%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAUFMAN ASTORIA STUDIOS (NYC); BROADWAY STUDIOS (NYC); SILVERCUP STUDIOS (NYC) AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (59%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); FILM (93%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%); ROBERT DE NIRO (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



121 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY COURT OVERTURNS OUSTER OF GAY BOY SCOUT

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Equating the Boy Scouts with such public accommodations as restaurants, libraries, schools and theaters, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled today that the organization's expulsion of a gay Eagle Scout in 1990 violated the state's antidiscrimination law.
In a unanimous 7-to-0 decision, the court first rejected the Boy Scouts' arguments that it is a private organization and that its decision to remove the scout, James Dale, was protected by the First Amendment. The court also dismissed the Scouts' contention that homosexuality is immoral, comparing that view to discrimination against women and blacks. 
 After saying Mr. Dale's dismissal was "based on little more than prejudice," the Chief Justice, Deborah T. Poritz, wrote: "The sad truth is that excluded groups and individuals have been prevented from full participation in the social, economic and political life of our country. The human price of this bigotry has been enormous. At a most fundamental level, adherence to the principle of equality demands that our legal system protect the victim of invidious discrimination."
The case of Mr. Dale, who is now 29, is the second one to have reached the highest court in a state. But the result is just the opposite of the earlier case. In March 1998, the California Supreme Court ruled that the Scouts could expel homosexuals, agnostics and atheists. That court held that the Boy Scouts were a private organization not covered by California's civil rights law and that the organization had constitutional rights of freedom of association and freedom of expression to expel homosexuals.
In a concurring opinion in the New Jersey decision today, Justice Alan B. Handler, widely considered the court's staunchest liberal, said he agreed with much of his colleagues' legal reasoning. Then Justice Handler, who is retiring after this term, concluded his 44-page opinion with something of a sociological and philosophical lecture. "One particular stereotype that we renounce today is that homosexuals are inherently immoral," Justice Handler wrote. "That myth is repudiated by decades of social science data that convincingly establish that being homosexual does not, in itself, derogate from one's ability to participate in and contribute responsibly and positively to society.
"In short, a lesbian and gay person, merely because he or she is a homosexual, is no more or less likely to be moral than a person who is heterosexual."
Paul Stevenson, a public-affairs spokesman for the Boy Scouts of America at their national headquarters in Dallas, expressed disappointment with the New Jersey ruling and said the group planned to appeal it to the United States Supreme Court.
The California ruling was not appealed because it did not turn on any claim of Federal constitutional law.
"The Boy Scouts of America is a private organization with the right to set our membership and leadership standards," Mr. Stevenson said. He contended that New Jersey's anti-discrimination law did not supersede the organization's First Amendment rights of association. Consequently, he reasoned, New Jersey's high court had used the state's anti-discrimination law to discriminate against the Boy Scouts.
Mr. Dale, who was an assistant scoutmaster at Troop 73 in Matawan, N.J., when he was expelled, said he was elated with the ruling.
"The Supreme Court of New Jersey is wonderful," he said as he appeared with his lawyer at the headquarters of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund in Manhattan. "This is what Scouting taught me: Goodness will prevail."
The lawyer, Evan Wolfson, called the ruling "a strong, clear powerful decision by one of the nation's most respected state supreme courts."
"The decision we got today is a win-win decision," Mr. Wolfson said. "It's a victory for Jim Dale and it's a victory for other gay men like him."
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman applauded the ruling during a public appearance in Bergen County. She said she did not believe in discrimination "in any form" and said a person's sexual orientation was a private matter. "If the troop leader is a good leader, there's no reason to worry" about his sexual orientation, Governor Whitman said.
Mr. Dale, who lives in Manhattan and helps arrange health fairs for people with AIDS, said he wanted to return to Scouting. The ruling ordered his reinstatement and instructed a lower New Jersey court to take up his request for compensatory and punitive damages against the Boy Scouts.
Mr. Dale joined Scouting in 1978 at age 8, obtained more than 25 merit badges and Scouting's highest rank -- Eagle Scout -- and eventually became assistant scoutmaster. The Boy Scouts considered him an exemplary member, the ruling said.
But in July 1990, his photograph appeared in a local newspaper identifying him as co-president of the Lesbian/Gay Alliance at Rutgers University. Soon afterward, the Scouts sent him a letter informing him of the expulsion and saying that the Scouts' standards for leadership forbade membership to homosexuals.
Today's decision said Mr. Dale asked various Scout executives for a copy of the standards of leadership but was never given one. In late 1990, the organization's lawyers told him that the Boy Scouts "does not admit avowed homosexuals to membership." He began his legal fight soon afterward.
During court arguments over nine years, the Scouts argued that the organization believed homosexuality was immoral and that belief was both explicit and implicit in the Scout Oath that a scout is "morally straight" and in the Scout Law that a scout is "clean."
The court disagreed with that argument in its 89-page ruling.
In finding that the Scouts were a "public accommodation" as defined by the state's antidiscrimination law and not a "selective" private organization, Chief Justice Poritz wrote that Congress had chartered the organization, that 87 million boys and men had joined Scouting since its inception in 1910, and that churches and police and fire departments routinely sponsor local troops.
"Most important," she wrote, "it is clear that Boy Scouts does not limit its membership to individuals who belong to a particular religion or subscribe to a specific set of moral beliefs."
She said the Boy Scouts teach tolerance and the understanding of differences in others and that the group's charter and bylaws do not permit exclusion of any boy.
"Boy Scouts is not 'distinctly private' because it is not selective in its membership," the Chief Justice wrote. Largely because of its broad membership and large size, she dismissed the Boy Scouts' arguments that First Amendment freedom of "intimate association" -- usually reserved for family relationships and small groups whose members share common thoughts and beliefs -- shielded the organization from the antidiscrimination law.
In dismissing the argument that the First Amendment right of "expressive association" allowed the dismissal of Mr. Dale, the Chief Justice said the organization's ability to disseminate its message would not be impaired if he was a member.
"Boy Scout members do not associate for the purpose of disseminating the belief that homosexuality is immoral," she wrote. "Boy Scouts discourages its leaders from disseminating any views on sexual issues; and Boy Scouts includes sponsors and members who subscribe to different views in respect of homosexuality."
The Chief Justice said the court agreed with the Scouts' espousal of moral values. But she said it disagreed with the contention that the Scout Oath's principle of "morally straight" and its admonition that a scout be "clean" meant that homosexuality is immoral.
"The words 'morally straight' and 'clean' do not, on their face, express anything about sexuality," she wrote. Thus, she said, Mr. Dale's membership does not violate the Scouts' right of expressive association.
That, she concluded, "suggests that Dale's expulsion constituted discrimination based solely on his status as an openly gay man."
Expelling him was not justified by the need to preserve the organization's expressive rights, she said. And she held that expulsion solely on the ground of sexual orientation was "inconsistent with the Boy Scouts' commitment to diverse and representative membership."
Justice Handler, in his concurring opinion, said the Boy Scouts' legal contention in the Dale case that homosexuality is immoral is out of touch with current law, public policy and social mores.
"Boy Scouts' adherence to 'traditional moral values,' its 'belief in moral values,' " Justice Handler said, "remain undisturbed and undeterred by Dale's open avowal of his homosexuality."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Dale, center, who was expelled from the Boy Scouts in 1990, leaves a news conference after the New Jersey Supreme Court struck down the Scouts' ban on gay members. At right is his lawyer, Evan Wolfson. (The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BOY SCOUTS; SUPREME COURT (US) NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (84%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (84%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (55%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOY SCOUTS; SUPREME COURT (US) NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (84%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (84%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (55%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY; DISCRIMINATION; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION SUPREME COURTS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (71%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (69%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; DALE, JAMES; STEVENSON, PAUL JAMES DALE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



122 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Most Off Welfare Get Jobs, but Not All Long Term

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Two-thirds of the people who left New York State's rapidly declining welfare rolls found jobs within the year after they stopped receiving public assistance, according to a new study commissioned by the state.
It also found, however, that only 40 percent of the people who found jobs worked continuously during that time. 
 The study, done by independent researchers using state data, also found that of the people who left welfare during that period, more than 80 percent were still off public assistance a year later, although many did not report wages.
Conducted by the Rockefeller Institute at the State University of New York in Albany for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, the study examined the fate of roughly 9,000 single mothers whose cases were closed in early 1997 and followed them throughout the next year. It has not been published, but it has been circulating among policy makers and a copy was provided to The New York Times.
The report is the most detailed analysis to date of what has become of hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers who have left welfare in recent years. It also offers the first documentation of claims by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani that new welfare policies intended to push people off the rolls have moved them toward self-sufficiency, not destitution.
The findings, experts say, suggest that the combination of a robust economy and tough new policies aimed at nudging people off welfare have led many former recipients to find jobs. But the report does not answer many crucial questions, such as the types of jobs that former recipients secured during their first year off welfare and whether they were advancing in the workplace. Nor does it say how many of the people who were tracked are working part time or how many are working off the books.
In the end, both opponents and proponents of New York's new welfare policies found something in the study that supported their positions. While state officials pointed to the employment figures as evidence that their policies were helping former welfare recipients become self-sufficient, advocates for the poor said the study showed how difficult it was for former recipients to hold onto jobs, even in flush times.
The report, for example, noted that while 66 percent of the people found a job within the 12 months after they left the welfare rolls, slightly more than half -- 53 percent -- still had a job at the end of the 12-month period. Many of those people may have taken low-paying jobs or jobs without benefits, the report noted. About 20 percent of those who left welfare returned to the rolls.
The study was financed by the Federal Government to determine the initial impact of the 1996 Federal welfare overhaul, which gave states sweeping new powers to impose new requirements and restrictions on public assistance.
Richard P. Nathan, the director of the Rockefeller institute and one of the main authors of the study, said that while crucial questions remained, the study provided a valuable glimpse of life after welfare. "This is a first step in understanding the effects of the widespread changes in welfare policy in New York," he said. "But we need to know a lot more. This is the tip of the analytical iceberg."
That said, the results suggest that people who left welfare in New York may actually be doing better than former recipients in some states that have been celebrated for their welfare-to-work efforts, like Wisconsin and Massachusetts.
In a survey released last January, Wisconsin reported that 62 percent of former welfare recipients surveyed were working full time or part time when they were interviewed and that 83 percent had worked at some point since leaving welfare.
But the Wisconsin survey deliberately excluded anyone who had left welfare during the first three months of 1998 and then returned over the next nine months. By excluding those who returned to welfare, Wisconsin officials got significantly better results than if they had included former recipients who were unable to find work and went back on the rolls.
By contrast, New York included people who returned to the welfare rolls, and it achieved largely the same results.
Nearly 690,000 people have left the state's two main welfare programs -- Aid to Families With Dependent Children and Home Relief -- since 1995, according to state social-services data. About 470,000 of them left welfare in New York City in that period.
As the main part of the study, researchers compared lists of people whose benefits ended during the first quarter of 1997 with records of wages that were reported to the state by employers through March of 1998. Employers are required to file wage reports to the state each quarter.
The study has certain limitations. It did not track people who are self-employed, who recently married an employed person or who moved out of New York for a job. Nor did it include information from employers who are not required to report wages at all, like farm owners.
The study also did not track 66,000 families who came off the rolls after the state managed to collect child support payments from delinquent parents. Those families, while off welfare, do not show up in the state's wage reporting system.
More than that, though, the study does not attempt to track the fate of childless, single adults who received aid under the state-financed program called Home Relief. The rolls in that program have declined by 224,316 since 1995, and advocates for the poor have long contended that people in that program are among the most difficult to employ because they often have disabilities like substance-abuse problems.
Rather, the study sought to determine what had become of the roughly 465,000 single parents and children who had left the rolls since 1995. For the purposes of the study, the researchers did not count people who returned to the rolls within two months of their cases being closed. Those cases were excluded from the study, the researchers said, because welfare cases are often closed inadvertently and then reopened once the error is noticed.
The study's authors estimated that when people with unreported employment were factored in, more than 70 percent of former welfare families had some kind of employment during their first year off welfare, and about 60 percent were employed when the year was over.
But the study counted anyone with even the most minimal employment as having had a job; the threshold was just $100 per three-month period in income. Even so, researchers found that by the fourth quarter after leaving welfare, the average family income was $4,230 for the quarter, equivalent to $16,920 for a year. When that figure was adjusted to reflect income that might not have been reported, the average was $5,034, or $20,136.
Another major finding was that of the people whose cases were closed, 29 percent were receiving food stamps a year later and 48 percent were receiving Medicaid, suggesting that some people may have taken low-wage jobs or jobs without medical benefits.
Sheldon Danziger, a professor of social work and public policy at the University of Michigan, said the overall employment figures among former recipients in New York generally mirrored the findings in other states. He credited the good economy, as well as new restrictions on welfare, with leading recipients into jobs. But he added that the true test of the new welfare policies would come when the economy becomes sluggish and there are fewer jobs.
"The states are clearly pushing recipients into a labor market in which employers need more workers," said Mr. Danziger, who is working on the tracking of former welfare recipients Michigan. "But we won't know the full impact until a recession comes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER INSTITUTE; OFFICE OF TEMPORARY AND DISABILITY ASSISTANCE (NYS) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER INSTITUTE; OFFICE OF TEMPORARY AND DISABILITY ASSISTANCE (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



123 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Judge, Faulting Agencies, Halts Logging Deals

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Five years after the Clinton Administration hammered out a landmark plan to settle legal and environmental disputes over logging across the Pacific Northwest, the region's timber wars are flaring up again.
The same Federal judge who once issued rulings to protect the northern spotted owl has now blocked nine major logging deals and threatened to stop dozens of others by declaring that Federal officials have failed to take proper steps to insure that other species are being protected as well. 
 Siding with environmentalists and enraging the logging industry, Judge William L. Dwyer of Federal District Court in Seattle ruled on Monday that the United States Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management had unlawfully neglected to conduct detailed wildlife surveys on Federal forest land, as required by the 1994 compact, before approving contracts allowing logging of parcels in old-growth forests west of the Cascade Mountains in Washington and Oregon and in northwestern California.
The ruling could ultimately affect logging on half a million acres or more of Federal land.
The Clinton Administration brokered the compromise in 1994 under pressure from environmentalists and the logging industry, and Judge Dwyer lifted his 1991 a ban on logging on about a third of remaining federally owned old-growth forests designed to protect spotted owl and its habitat. In his ruling this week, Judge Dwyer declared that the agencies' actions under the plan had been "arbitrary and contrary to the plain language" of that plan.
The ruling effectively put the land agencies's efforts to protect wildlife back under a degree of court jurisdiction imposed in 1991 until they could show they were doing a better job of monitoring the logging's effects on 77 animal and plant species that include rodents, snails, salamanders, mollusks and wildflowers.
Many of the species are considered indicators of the overall health of the old-growth forest ecosystem. Under terms of the 1994 plan, all were supposed to be surveyed by the Federal agencies, which say they believe they have followed those terms. But the environmentalists, in a suit against the Government, said the agencies had failed to do complete surveys before granting logging permission.
Judge Dwyer's ruling has the immediate effect of blocking logging plans for about 100 million board feet of timber, enough to build about 7,000 average-sized homes. But even more broadly, the judge indicated that his court's approval would be needed before new logging could occur under about 200 other deals in the region. If upheld on appeal, after a likely challenge from the industry, the ruling could significantly curtail logging in the majority of contracts approved by the Federal officials in the last three years in the region.
The ruling is being hailed as a "blockbuster victory" by one of the lawyers for the 13 environmental groups that joined forces in the lawsuit. A spokesman for the timber industry said it was "disappointed that the judge feels he knows the plan better than the professionals in the Federal Government."
The forest service said it was still studying the ruling to assess its impact. "Our lawyers are still going through it," said Rex Holloway, a spokesman for the agency in Portland, Ore. "They're hesitant to say anything until they've had a chance to talk among themselves." But he said the forest service believed it had correctly followed the guidelines of the 1994 agreement.
At this point, it is unclear whether the red tree vole, a small rodent favored as food by the spotted owl, or the blue-gray tail-dropper, a tiny snail, will acquire the emotional symbolism that the owl brought to the fight over old-growth forests. Both are among the species at issue in the case.
But it is certain that the fight is renewed, and that environmentalists are again on the offensive, trying to move toward a much broader ban on logging in the Northwest.
"There's so little old-growth left, there's no good place to cut it anymore at all," Doug Heiken, western Oregon field representative for the Oregon Natural Resources Council, said in a telephone interview today. "All of it should be protected for future generations."
The group, one of those that filed the lawsuit, says that only 10 percent of the region's old-growth forests are left, and that about 30 percent of that area remains eligible for cutting under the 1994 plan.
The industry, meanwhile, says the judge's ruling imperils hundreds of logging jobs and the local economy in some pockets of the Northwest and many are pressing Congress to relax the survey regulations.
Senator Slade Gorton, Republican of Washington, has sponsored legislation to relax some of the requirements of the environmental surveys, making it easier for many of the timber deals to go through, and the judge's ruling is likely to intensify the fight over the issue.
Still, the region as a whole is far less dependent on logging than it once was -- in Oregon, for example, the high-tech industry is now a bigger source of jobs than forest-products companies. And even in some places that were once deeply reliant on logging, tourism built on the area's natural beauty is now a mainstay of the economy, which leads at least some local business people to oppose the logging.
"It messes up the area, big time," said Tom Vuyovich, owner of the All Seasons Motel in Detroit, Ore., on the edge of the Cascades, who said much of his clientele is tourists drawn to the area's natural beauty and its many recreational possibilities.
"A lot of them look around, there are clear-cuts visible all around, and they say, 'What happened here? Where are the trees?' They want to know where the old growth is, and I can carefully point them out to the last few spots that have been saved -- so far."
Chris West, a spokesman for the Northwest Forestry Association, an industry group, said today that the judge's ruling was just "the tip of the iceberg" and that it could eventually lead to a ban on logging for lumber that could be used to build nearly 100,000 homes.
Such a ban would not in itself be likely to significantly affect building activity or drive up the cost of lumber in general, but it would curtail the amount of the old-growth wood on the market. Many builders and prospective home owners, both here and in overseas markets, consider it particularly desirable.
Many environmentalists say there is no good reason to allow logging of the old-growth forests at all, and concern over the forests is what sparked the first of the legal battles that have been revived by the judge's ruling this week.
In 1991, Judge Dwyer issued a sweeping ruling that temporarily halted all logging in the spotted owl's habitat region under Federal jurisdiction, nearly 25 million acres in all. He ruled that the Bush Administration was breaking Federal laws by allowing so much logging on public lands that the owl could become extinct.
Pressed by both environmentalists who wanted the logging permanently stopped and by industry officials who described the judge's ruling as economically devastating, President Clinton moved shortly after he took office in 1993 to broker a compromise. He did, permanently setting aside about 10 million acres of Federal land on top of millions of acres of owl habitat that were already protected because they were in national parks or other wilderness areas.
The compromise, including the requirement for the wildlife surveys, cleared the way for Judge Dwyer to lift his ban. But it satisfied neither side, and there is still a debate over whether the plan is sufficiently protective of the owl.
The Forest Service estimates that there are 8,000 pairs of owls in the Northwest. A recent Federal survey found that the owl population is declining at about 3.9 percent a year. Agency and industry officials said the rate of decline was significantly less than what it had been and was in fact an indication that the plan for recovery of the species was working.
Environmental groups said the continued decline called into question the whole plan, and they renewed their push for a half to all logging on old-growth land.
The Clinton Administration has said it is committed to shifting forest policy toward conservation. It announced earlier this year, for instance, that it would continue its suspension of logging-road construction in most of the national forests.
So the judge's ruling will also set the stage for a likely battle within the Administration over how the Forest Service should respond -- in other words, whether it should contest the ruling or use it as a continuing reason to halt logging projects.
Mr. Heiken, of the Oregon Natural Resources Council, said the group was not opposed to the 1994 plan, as long as it was scrupulously followed. He disagreed with the forest industry's contention that it was being subject to renewed and unfair oversight.
"This is exactly what the courts are here for," Mr. Heiken said. "The point is, the agencies are going to have to come up with a way to do it right."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Timber Sales Halted"
A Federal judge blocked timber sales on national forest land, saying the Government had failed to conduct wildlife surveys as required under the Northwest Forest Plan, a 1994 pact with environmentalists. Map shows area of the habitat of the northern spotted owl, land covered by the 1994 Northwest Forest Plan and locations of timber sales put on hold. (Source: Oregon Natural Resources Council)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (US); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT FOREST SERVICE (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); FOREST SERVICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (US); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT FOREST SERVICE (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); FOREST SERVICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC NORTHWESTERN STATES (US); WASHINGTON (STATE); OREGON; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; OWLS LOGGING INDUSTRY (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); JUDGES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); JURISDICTION (77%); ANIMALS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); RODENTS (71%); APPEALS (70%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DWYER, WILLIAM L (JUDGE) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



124 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MCVEIGH, CHRISTOPHER R.

 BODY:
McVEIGH-Christopher R. Of Montclair, New Jersey, formerly of Somers, New York, died August 2 at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. Mr. McVeigh worked as VP of Marketing for Prudential Insurance Company in Newark, NJ for the past two years. Mr. McVeigh was born on August 24, 1965 in Brooklyn, NY to Robert & Marie Murphy McVeigh. He attended Regis High School in New York City, graduating in 1983. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass. in 1987. Mr. McVeigh lived in Montclair, NJ for the past year. Mr. McVeigh lived in Somers, NY from 1992 to 1998. He was a parishioner of St. Cassians Church, Montclair, New Jersey. Mr. McVeigh is survived by his wife Joann K. (nee Gleason) of Montclair, NJ, father of Colleen Anne and Kevin Robert. Son of Robert A. and Marie B. McVeigh. Brother of Laura Masi of Stamford, CT, Gregory McVeigh of Fairfield, CT, Jenifer Maggiacomo of Quincy, MA and Maureen McVeigh of Vienna, VA. Stepson of Eileen C. McVeigh of Somers, NY. Son-inlaw of Kevin and Mary Virginia Gleason of Englewood, CO. Brother-in-law of John Gleason of Englewood, CO, Mary Carol Gleason of Englewood, CO, James Gleason of Denver, CO, Daniel Gleason of Montclair, NJ, John Masi of Stamford, CT, Jenifer Smith McVeigh of Fairfield, CT and Steven Maggiacomo of Quincy, MA. Three nephews and two nieces. Mr. McVeigh is predeceased by his mother Marie B. McVeigh, who died in 1996. Visitation Wednesday and Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM at the Cassidy Flynn Funeral Home, Mt. Kisco, NY. The funeral is Friday 10 AM, at St. Joseph's Church, Croton Falls, NY. Interment will follow at St. Joseph's Cemetery, Croton Falls, NY. Friends may send memorial donations in memory of Christopher R. McVeigh c/o Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: PICL (NEP) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (76%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); HOLY CROSS COLLEGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (76%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); 

PERSON: MCVEIGH, CHRISTOPHER R. JOHN J GLEASON SR (68%); JAMES S GLEASON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



125 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 22;Column 1;Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Dangerous Missiles

 BODY:
North Korea threatens to escalate tensions in Asia and heighten its own isolation if it goes ahead with another long-range missile test in the next few weeks. The Taepodong 2 missile, first tested last August, has a range of 3,700 miles, which makes it capable of hitting Alaska and Hawaii as well as Japan and American military targets throughout the Western Pacific. A second test would rightly be taken as a return to belligerent behavior by a country that recently seemed to be signaling an interest in more constructive relations with the outside world.
The United States, Japan and South Korea have warned North Korea not to go ahead with the test. All three countries have been exploring improved relations with Pyongyang through diplomatic encounters, trade discussions, humanitarian relief projects and tourism. Such efforts would be stopped short by a missile test. Further, Japan could be pushed to strengthen its air force and add missile defenses, which some of its neighbors, including China, might find troubling. 
 Unfortunately, North Korea has learned to use threats of menacing behavior as a bargaining tactic to extort economic and diplomatic rewards. That approach began in the early 1990's when Pyongyang appeared ready to reprocess nuclear reactor fuel into bomb ingredients. Washington responded imaginatively to that crisis by negotiating a useful agreement that committed the North to abandon reprocessing. In exchange, the United States, South Korea and Japan agreed to finance fuel-oil imports and construct a new, more safely designed reactor.
But North Korea later renewed its threatening behavior. Last year it began excavations for what appeared to be a new reprocessing plant and then demanded increased food assistance for allowing inspection of the suspect site. As it turned out, no new reprocessing plant had been built. Now the North may be trying to win new concessions with its missile test preparations.
In both earlier cases, North Korea backed off in time to avoid a crisis. But if it now proceeds to a missile test, it should get a very chilly response. Washington should withdraw its recent proposal offering the North an end to most economic sanctions and steps toward diplomatic recognition. That offer is conditioned on constructive North Korean behavior and is not compatible with long-range missile tests.
In addition, Seoul should suspend its new tourism arrangement with the North and Tokyo should block payments home from North Korean citizens living in Japan. America's reaction should not include military steps or suspending the nuclear agreement, which continues to serve the interests of the United States and its Asian allies.
A missile test would not violate any international treaty or agreement with the United States. But it would be a clear sign that North Korea is more interested in developing its military strength and capacity to export dangerous weapons than in pursuing the American offers of help and cooperation. North Korea should think carefully and draw back.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An editorial yesterday erred in saying that North Korea tested its Taepodong 2 long-range missile last August. North Korea has not yet tested this missile. A medium-range missile, the Taepodong 1, was tested last August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (95%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (95%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); EXTORTION (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



126 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil Steelmaker to Add U.S. Link to Pan-American Chain

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Gerdau S.A., one of Brazil's biggest steelmakers, moved to expand its manufacturing operations into the United States today with a deal to acquire control of the Ameristeel Corporation.
Gerdau said it would purchase a 75 percent stake in the company, held by Kyoei Steel Ltd. of Japan, which would give Gerdau a pan-American production network extending from Canada to Chile. The deal for Ameristeel would also mean that nearly half of Gerdau's revenue would come from outside Brazil. 
 Gerdau is a leader among Brazilian companies that are expanding abroad to insulate themselves from the uncertainties that have buffeted Latin America's biggest economy. "This is a smart move by Gerdau because it shields them from the volatility in their home region," said Mauricio Reveco, who covers Latin American steel companies at Salomon Smith Barney in New York.
The process is expected to be completed within 60 days. Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
With the purchase of a controlling stake in closely held Ameristeel, which has 2,100 employees, four manufacturing sites and estimated annual sales of $600 million, Gerdau reinforces its position as a leading maker of steel for the construction industry.
Since the 1980's, Gerdau, based in the southern city of Porto Alegre, has acquired steel mills in Uruguay and Argentina, as well as in Canada and Chile.
Gerdau's purchase also touched off speculation about the future of the Brazilian steel industry, which has been hurt by Brazil's economic slowdown after a currency devaluation crisis in January. There have been predictions of a consolidation among steelmakers.
Gerdau, considered among the healthiest, has been mentioned as the most likely candidate to take over Companhia Siderurgica Nacional, or CSN, the country's largest steel company. Since the devaluation of the Brazilian real, CSN has had difficulties servicing its substantial foreign debt.
But Gerdau's acquisition of Ameristeel throws the assumption that it could also buy CSN into question.
"It would be highly unlikely for Gerdau to make a move now on CSN," said Daniel Altman, a Latin American steel analyst with Bear, Stearns & Company in New York. "Ameristeel should be a significant investment for them, although we still don't know how much."
Another reason analysts now believe that CSN could be sold to a foreign concern such as Thyssen Krupp A.G. of Germany or Arbed S.A. of Luxembourg, which have shown interest in the company, is that Gerdau is in a substantially different business from CSN.
Gerdau produces "long" steel, used in the construction of buildings or to produce heavy machinery like food harvesters, while CSN makes "flat" steel, used in products like refrigerators or cars.
The same distinction is what excludes Gerdau from an agreement reached last month between the Governments of the United States and Brazil to avoid punitive tariffs on Brazilian steel imports. The agreement, which established a quota system for the next five years, applied to flat steel producers like CSN.
"We've been talking to CSN, and the major shareholders in CSN, but were not swimming in money," Osvaldo Schirmer, Gerdau's financial director, said in a telephone interview from Tampa, Fla., where Ameristeel is based.
Nonetheless, CSN shares advanced on news of the Ameristeel acquisition, reflecting speculation that it could be next. Its American depository receipts rose $1, to $24, on the New York Stock Exchange. Gerdau's ADRs rose 37.5 cents, to $16.75.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about the proposed purchase of a controlling stake in the Ameristeel Corporation of Florida by Gerdau S.A., a large steelmaker in Brazil, misstated the financial condition of Companhia Siderurgica Nacional, or CSN, Brazil's largest steelmaker. CSN, which has been the subject of speculation as a possible purchase by Gerdau, has $700 million in cash on hand. It has not had difficulty servicing its foreign debt since the Brazilian currency was devalued in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GGBR3 (BOVESPA) (98%); GGB (NYSE) (98%); SID (NYSE) (91%); CSNA3 (BOVESPA) (91%); TKA (FRA) (83%); 5440 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331222 STEEL WIRE DRAWING (98%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (98%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (93%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (91%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (91%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (91%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); SIC3534 ELEVATORS & MOVING STAIRWAYS (83%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (72%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CANADA (93%); CHILE (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); URUGUAY (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERISTEEL CORP; GERDAU SA; KYOEI STEEL LTD; COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL GERDAU SA (98%); GERDAU LONG STEEL NORTH AMERICA (93%); CIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL (91%); THYSSENKRUPP AG (83%); KYOEI STEEL LTD (72%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (63%); ARBED SA (62%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERISTEEL CORP; GERDAU SA; KYOEI STEEL LTD; COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CANADA (93%); CHILE (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); URUGUAY (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CURRENCIES (69%); DEVALUATION (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1999



127 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Rental Complex Offers Open Space in East Village

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Amid the densely packed streets of the East Village, a two-building rental complex is taking shape that will offer amenities unusual for the neighborhood. Prime among them is open space.
The $17 million project, at 190 East Seventh Street between Avenues B and C, will have 125 studio to two-bedroom apartments, with 450 to 720 square feet, as well as some three-bedroom penthouses, with just under 1,100 square feet. The units, including some duplexes, will be spread between the two seven-story buildings, which will overlook a 6,600-square-foot landscaped plaza and be on the edge of two garden areas to the east. 
 Tompkins Square Plaza, named for its green space and proximity to Tompkins Square Park, will have a health club, laundry room and 24-hour doorman. It is rising on part of a midblock site, extending to East Sixth Street, that once housed an elementary school, Public School 71, but has sat vacant for decades.
The new rental complex, brokers said, underscores Manhattan's strong housing market and the area's growth as a less expensive alternative to neighborhoods like SoHo and the West Village, as well as to emerging residential areas in the financial district. While rents in the East Village have risen, they are still 15 to 20 percent lower than those for comparable units elsewhere in Manhattan, said Brian G. Edwards, director of leasing at the Halstead Property Company, a Manhattan brokerage.
Leasing began two weeks ago at the first of the East Seventh Street project's two buildings, which contains 72 apartments, including 18 duplexes that are split evenly on the lower two and top two floors. So far, contracts have been signed for 30 apartments, all of them single-level units, at rents of $1,800 to $3,400 a month, which is competitive for the area, said Paul W. Stallings, who, with several limited partners, is developing the project as P.S. 71 Associates L.L.C. of Manhattan. Monthly rents for the duplex units, for which leasing will start later this month, will be $4,000 to $5,500, he said.
Mr. Stallings has been active with conversion and rehabilitation projects in the East Village for the last two decades and owns and manages 12 rental buildings there, with a total of 130 apartments. Tompkins Square Plaza is his first new construction project.
"Interest in the neighborhood has exploded in the last three years, making it a 24-hour community," he said. "But until recently, nobody was building residential projects, especially large ones, or for the broader economic group of people moving to the area."
Reasons for the limited construction have included the difficulty in assembling large building sites and the lack of financing from conventional sources, said Mitchell Adelstein. He is president of Capstone Realty Group, based in Englewood, N.J., which helps developers and investors, including P.S. 71 Associates, secure funds.
"Now," he said, "such lenders are more apt to look at less traditional neighborhoods like the East Village, where rents have strengthened, making it ripe for new construction."
Tompkins Square Plaza is among the largest of a spate of projects under way in the East Village. GMAC is providing a $13.5 million construction loan, with the rest coming from the partners' own equity.
The partners began assembling the site, comprising four different lots, two years ago. They bought the largest lot, where the school once stood, for $2.8 million from a developer who did not proceed with a planned housing project. Six months later, they acquired three additional smaller lots at a city auction for about $700,000.
Residents of two adjacent cooperative buildings used two of those lots as community gardens. Zoning restrictions require that they be retained as gardens or redeveloped as an "accessory use," including a garage, for the adjacent new building.
To move his project ahead, Mr. Stallings said, he struck a compromise with the co-op residents, enabling them to retain access to and shared control over the gardens. Meanwhile, the development rights over the gardens were transferred to the new project, allowing the partners to build it to its current scale and increase the number of units to 125 from 80.
Robert Altemus, president of the co-op board at 613 East Sixth Street, said of the compromise: "I'm pleased because it is the best case we could come up with without getting our arms ripped off trying to stop progress."
Les Grant of Samu Realty, who is the marketing director for Tompkins Square Plaza, said the project "fills a new niche" in the East Village for more upscale services, which developers "have been slow to meet."
Mr. Edwards of the Halstead company agreed, adding that there was sufficient demand for the project's smaller units from young professionals willing to venture to the East Village for its character and lower rents. But the real question, he said, is if the larger, more expensive duplex units will rent.
Mr. Stallings said that if there was resistance to the higher rents, they might need to be modified.
Each of the new buildings, designed by Simon Fouladin of Long Island City, Queens, will have stone bases and be faced with the same tan and yellow brick found on existing neighborhood structures "so they will look as though they have been there for 80 years," Mr. Stallings said.
Both buildings will have a single stone-floored lobby, whose entrance will be on Seventh Street, and connected by the interior plaza, which will feature a seating area and two fountains, as well as a skylighted passageway under the plaza. That underground space will also house the health club and laundry room.
The entire project is to be completed in January.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Tompkins Square Plaza rental complex, on East Seventh Street in the East Village. The project, which is to be completed in January, will have 125 studio to two-bedroom apartments as well as some penthouses. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TOMPKINS SQUARE PLAZA RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE; STALLINGS, PAUL W PAUL W STALLINGS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



128 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Lawyer Is Set to Head U.N. War Crimes Tribunals

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 5

 BODY:
A Swiss lawyer with wide experience in fighting money laundering and organized crime is expected to be named chief prosecutor of the international war crimes tribunals for the Balkans and Rwanda.
The lawyer, Carla Del Ponte, Switzerland's Attorney General and Federal Prosecutor, would replace Louise Arbour, a Canadian judge who has been appointed to Canada's Supreme Court. 
 Secretary General Kofi Annan met with Mrs. Del Ponte today and was expected to forward the nomination to the Security Council overnight. United Nations officials do not expect opposition in the Council, which created the tribunals and formally appoints the prosecutor and judges, because members have been consulted in advance.
Mrs. Del Ponte, 52, will be the first experienced prosecutor to hold the job on the war crimes tribunals. Her predecessors, Ms. Arbour and Richard Goldstone of South Africa, were both judges. The chief prosecutor is appointed for a four-year term and is based in The Hague.
Switzerland is not a member of the United Nations, but Swiss citizens often serve in professional United Nations jobs. In this case, Switzerland's neutrality -- it is not a member of NATO -- is considered an advantage for Mrs. Del Ponte, who will be working on cases involving the conflict in Kosovo. The Balkan tribunal already has before it an indictment of Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslav President.
In Africa, Mrs. Del Ponte will be responsible for the separate Rwanda tribunal, which has been plagued by management problems at its headquarters in Arusha, Tanzania. The Rwanda tribunal has, however, a growing list of indictments and convictions of people involved in the mass killings of Tutsi and moderate Hutu in 1994.
In recent years, Mrs. Del Ponte became well known in Europe for breaking a Sicilian Mafia money-laundering operation in Switzerland, pursuing former Soviet bloc officials who may have been stowing illegal funds in Switzerland and investigating Swiss bankers suspected of misappropriating money, in some cases in collaboration with Latin Americans. She also produced the evidence for Pakistan to bring money-laundering charges against Benazir Bhutto, a former Prime Minister, and her husband, Asif Ali Zardari.
In the course of her international investigations, Mrs. Del Ponte has worked with American officials, including Louis Freeh, the F.B.I. Director.
Mrs. Del Ponte suffered a setback last month when Switzerland's highest court overturned the confiscation by her office of $90 million from Swiss accounts belonging to Raul Salinas de Gortari, the brother of a former President of Mexico. The court ruled that Mrs. Del Ponte had no authority to seize the $90 million only on the suspicion that it included money from drug-trafficking. But the ruling did not absolve Mr. Salinas of the charges.
Born in Lugano on Feb. 9, 1947, Mrs. Del Ponte was educated in Geneva and Bern and in Britain. She began her career in a law firm in Lugano and three years later, in 1975, set up her own practice. In 1981 she was appointed investigating magistrate and then public prosecutor in the office of the Lugano district attorney.
In 1994, Mrs. Del Ponte, who speaks English, French, German and Italian, was named Attorney General of Switzerland, and she has also served since then as the country's chief prosecutor.
In addition to aggressive investigations into money laundering and other economic crimes, she also turned her attention to arms trafficking and support for terrorist organizations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (98%); CANADA (94%); SERBIA (94%); RWANDA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (58%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SWITZERLAND (98%); CANADA (94%); SERBIA (94%); RWANDA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (58%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS WAR CRIMES (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); MISAPPROPRIATION (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; DEL PONTE, CARLA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); ARBOUR, LOUISE ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



129 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Labor Costs Rose in Spring While Productivity Slowed

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
Growth in worker productivity slowed considerably in the spring while a gauge of wage pressures surged, Government figures showed today. The potentially troublesome developments could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
The Labor Department reported that productivity -- output per hour of work -- increased at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter, far below the 3.6 percent rate in the first three months of the year. At the same time, unit labor costs, considered a crucial measure of wage pressures, surged at an annual rate of 3.8 percent, the worst showing since the end of 1997. 
 Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and many private economists think strong productivity growth has helped to keep inflation low. With productivity rising sharply, employers are able to raise wages and pay the higher salaries through increased output rather than higher prices. But Mr. Greenspan warned Congress two weeks ago that if productivity slowed, wage pressures were likely to emerge, given that labor markets are the tightest in nearly three decades. He pledged that the Fed would act to raise rates at the first signs of inflation.
Financial markets have been jittery over the prospect that the Fed will raise interest rates when policy makers meet on Aug. 24.
The productivity report gives the central bank fresh ammunition to do just that, some economists said.
"Chairman Greenspan has most of the ducks in a row to hike interest rates on Aug. 24," said a Wells Fargo economist, Sung Won Sohn. "These numbers are a couple of the ducks he was watching carefully."
Economists said another important report would be Friday's unemployment report. If the July unemployment rate inches back down to a 29-year low of 4.2 percent and if hourly wage costs show a big jump, many analysts said, that will make it even more likely that the Fed will raise rates. The unemployment rate in June was 4.3 percent.

 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRODUCTIVITY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRODUCTIVITY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



130 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Berlin Journal;
Skirmish in the Store Wars: The Souvenir Caper

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Aug. 5

 BODY:
Called everything from Rambo to an apostle of German freedom, his courage compared to that of the people who brought down the Berlin wall, a middle-aged department store executive with a very big mustache has emerged as the most talked-about man in Germany.
His name is Gunter Biere and his much-discussed revolution has consisted in opening the large Kaufhof department store on Alexanderplatz here on a Sunday. In so doing, he defied the labyrinthine shop-closing law intended to insure that Sunday remains a rest day. 
 It is true that his coup occurred as newspapers here pondered how to fill their August columns. It is also true that most Germans are at the beach. The Chancellor is in Positano, an Italian resort, and the substantial Toskana-Fraktion (Tuscany Set) in Parliament has retired to its villas. Still, Germany is about as close to abuzz as it ever gets.
"This is not about me," Mr. Biere, 55, said as he tugged a strand of his mustache out toward his left ear. "It is about changing an absurd situation. Our law on Sunday shopping is as full of holes as a Swiss cheese, and I decided to indulge in a little provocation designed to bring Germany into the modern world."
Mr. Biere should know about Swiss cheeses -- he has been in retailing at various Kaufhof branches for 41 years, rising from an apprentice to store manager. Along the way, he clearly learned how to market an idea.
For there is now little doubt that his brazen challenge to the law, applauded by the 50,000 people who shopped at Kaufhof last Sunday, has touched a nerve in a country increasingly torn between custom and innovation, control and deregulation, and between the different desires of its eastern and western parts.
Kaufhof occupies the building that was formerly the main department store for state-produced goods in Communist East Germany, and that neatly symbolizes the fact that challenges to a stolid, complacent western German society are increasingly coming from the brasher east.
Commenting on the Sunday store opening in what was until 1989 the main square of East Berlin, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung commented that the "conventions of western Germany" were being challenged by a movement "whose message was clear -- free at last."
That may seem a lot for Germany's most serious newspaper to read into buying sheets, shirts or sugar on a Sunday. But then shopping is a lot more than shopping when done on German soil. It is a legally intricate, culturally charged, emotional and sometimes frustrating undertaking.
Its rules are defined with the laborious detail of a tax code, complete with exemptions, special conditions and rigorous deadlines. Its significance is often charged with the weight of a cultural conflict between America's frenzied materialism and the gentler pace of a caring European society.
"Of course the American drugstore has to be open at any time when the cowboy swings by," said Ingo Schwoppe, an official at the union representing about 200,000 store employees. "But ours is a different, less consumerist culture. Our members still think it is important that Sunday be a day for the family."
The current law bans shopping on Sundays in most of the country, except in airports, gas stations and train stations. As a result, some new shopping malls, like the 140-store complex in Leipzig opened in 1997, have been built in train stations.
Stores can generally open until 8 P.M. on weekdays, and until 4 P.M. on Saturdays. But they can open for two hours longer on the four Saturdays before Christmas, and on four Sundays a year, provided they have closed by 2 P.M. on the preceding Saturdays. The rules for the hours personnel can work are more intricate still.
One significant loophole permits Sunday shopping for a limited number of articles -- including sun-cream, umbrellas and souvenirs -- in so-called "tourist areas." These are places German legislators believe tourists frequent. When the Berlin city council extended Berlin's "tourist area" to Alexanderplatz at the end of July, Mr. Biere pounced.
Having prepared his move by having 600,000 "Berlin Souvenir" stickers printed and by reaching an agreement with his 1,000 employees granting a 20 percent pay bonus for Sunday work, Mr. Biere opened the Kaufhof from noon to 5 P.M. Every article sold was labeled a "souvenir."
The success was overwhelming -- sales were 15 percent higher during a five-hour day than during a normal 11-hour day, Mr. Biere said. Most customers were ecstatic. Opinion polls quickly appeared showing broad approval. But the Office for Workers' Protection, which oversees shopping laws, was not amused.
"Souvenirs must be specifically related to the area they are from," said Robert Rath of the Berlin Workers' Protection office. "Putting a little souvenir sticker on a washing machine does not make it a souvenir. Perhaps an iron would qualify if its grip was in the form of the Brandenburg Gate. But only then."
Mr. Rath said a fine of 50,000 marks ($27,500) already imposed on Kaufhof might be doubled if the store opened next Sunday, and the police might be called in to force the store to close. A Berlin court ruled today that Kaufhof cannot open on Sunday, but Mr. Biere said he would appeal the decision.
"Personally I prefer American culture, and I go to America four times a year to shop," Mr. Rath said. "But the law is the law."
Kaufhof has appealed the fine, and Mr. Biere said he was determined to fight on. He has hired 20 new employees to work on Sundays, and argues that Sunday opening could help create jobs in a society with a 10.3 percent unemployment rate. He also sees the issue as an important battle between east and west.
"Only stupid tradition of an old Germany is against this," said Gabriele Muller, who works for a German subsidiary of the United States Can Company in the eastern town of Schwedt and came to Kaufhof to shop. "People work all week, and it only adds to their stress if they cannot shop on Sunday. We should accept our Americanization."
But it was regulation, not deregulation, that cemented the postwar success of Germany's social-market economy, with its emphasis on solidarity, consensus and order. The system is ailing, especially in its inability to create jobs, but the attachment to it remains, especially in labor unions and churches.
"The men and women who wrote our Constitution saw the need to make Sunday a work-free day," said Manfred Kock, the president of the Evangelical Church of Germany. "We should respect them and preserve a day of communal tranquillity for social as much as religious reasons."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gunter Biere, top, is a Berlin department store executive who believes in getting around the intricate Sunday closing laws. If souvenirs are exempt, then simply label everything "Berlin Souvenir." A view of the Kaufhof, the store that almost every German is talking about. (Photographs by Stefan Doblinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT, GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

COMPANY: FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG GMBH (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANKFURT, GERMANY (58%); BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SABBATH OBSERVANCE RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DEREGULATION (88%); TAX LAW (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); CHEESE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; BIERE, GUNTER GUNTER BIERE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



131 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: South Africa Blacks Lose Control of Black Empowerment Company

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Aug. 5

 BODY:
South Africa's flagship black empowerment company, recovering from an investor revolt that ousted its chairman, has announced a reorganization that creates more accountability to shareholders but means the company no longer will be controlled by blacks.
The revamping of New Africa Investments Ltd., announced earlier this week, may spell the end of the black empowerment trend, a push toward economic equality that gained force with the election of the African National Congress in 1994. 
 From a strictly financial point of view, the move by New Africa Investments is considered long overdue: More equitable ownership rights for shareholders and a more open, understandable corporate structure that could become a model for all South African companies.
The 95 percent of shareholders who now hold nonvoting shares will get voting rights; blacks will control only about 10 percent of the company.
At its height, the black empowerment trend saw the big mining and insurance conglomerates that dominate this economy regularly spinning off subsidiaries and, through tricky financing, handing them over to black control.
But black trade unions and the black investment clubs called "stokvels" are no longer leaping into such arrangements. After a brief fad of investing in them, big investors began to shun these companies.
Most big early deals went sour. The 100-year-old mining house JCI Ltd. was broken up after its black chairman, Mzilikazi Khumalo, was ousted in an insider-trading scandal; its best gold mine passed to the white Kebble family that had backed him. Another conglomerate, Johnnies Industrial, is still headed by Cyril Ramaphosa, a former General Secretary of the African National Congress, but it is really just a holding company with a large portfolio of shares in other companies.
Commenting today on the passing of this brief era, Business Day, a financial newspaper here, reacted with both regret over the failure of an ideal and pleasure that financial standards had prevailed. Referring to New Africa Investments Ltd. by its acronym, it said, "As the cases of NAIL and the likes of JCI have shown, being an owner means little if the owner himself is not on a sturdy financial footing." Defining empowerment only as control, the editorial went on, ignores the value of managing a division or starting a small business.
Dikgang Moseneke, the executive director of New Africa Investments, who introduced the revamping plan, said the company would now concentrate on empowering blacks by employing more of them, training them as executives, and helping the disadvantaged.
The company's structure is to be more like any American or European counterpart: major shareholders will get seats on the board and the company will concentrate on profits. "If we don't add value, we will be prepared to walk the plank," Mr. Moseneke promised shareholders.
The company will split into two divisions, one with interests in insurance and banking, the other in newspapers and radio stations. Then, "like Siamese twins," Mr. Moseneke said, they will be separated into two companies.
New Africa Investments was founded in 1993 when the South African National Life Insurance Company decided to spin off 30 percent of Metropolitan Life, its subsidiary that wrote policies for blacks, and turn it over to black control. As chairman, it chose Dr. Nthato Motlana, an old friend and personal physician of Nelson Mandela.
The insurer, widely known as Sanlam Ltd., is an Afrikaner-dominated conglomerate whose directors thought it wise to lift blacks rapidly into positions of economic power, both to compensate for the damage of apartheid and to curry favor with the African National Congress Government about to be elected. (Sanlam itself was an empowerment vehicle for Afrikaners -- it was founded 50 years ago when the National Party took office, and Government contracts that formerly went to English-speaking insurance companies were steered to it.)
Under the revamping, New Africa Investments will undo the pyramid of holding companies that kept control in the hands of its founders. Pyramid-style ownership is frowned upon in the United States and Britain, but common in South Africa.
For example, despite directly owning only 8 percent of the shares, the Oppenheimer family controls the De Beers diamond-mining company and its sister conglomerate, Anglo American P.L.C., which together once accounted for a quarter of the country's gross domestic product. The Rembrandt Group and Liberty Life, two other big conglomerates, are controlled by the Rupert and Gordon families the same way.
When New Africa Investments was created, there were two classes of stock: 83 million common shares controlled by the directors, and two billion nonvoting N shares sold to outside investors. The common shares were controlled by four family trusts for the benefit of Dr. Motlana; Zwelakhe Sisulu, a member of Parliament and son of the A.N.C. stalwart Walter Sisulu; Mr. Moseneke, who also has A.N.C. connections and is chairman of the national telephone company, and Jonty Sandler, a white businessman who had made and lost a fortune building an amusement park near the black township of Soweto and was considered a wizard at creative financing. The four trusts owned Phaphama Holdings, which owned 96 percent of Corporate Af rica, which owned 55 percent of New Africa Investments.
In April, shareholders revolted. The big banks and insurers who held the bulk of New Africa Investments' stock were outraged at plans by board members to award themselves options worth $20 million and to increase the number of nonvoting shares by 50 percent, particularly since the company's stock had lost half its value since early 1998.
In a humiliating retreat, the board scrapped the compensation plan a day before the annual meeting. A month later, Dr. Motlana and Mr. Sandler resigned.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nthato Motlana, a Mandela confidant and New Africa ex-chairman. (Graeme Williams for The New York Times, 1996)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (86%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (86%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (67%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (67%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW AFRICA INVESTMENTS LTD; AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS NEW AFRICA INVESTMENTS LTD (86%); JCI LTD (67%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW AFRICA INVESTMENTS LTD; AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BLACKS SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); SCANDALS (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); LABOR UNIONS (52%); 

PERSON: MOTLANA, NTHATO (DR); MOSENEKE, DIKGANG

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



132 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
AT&T and British Telecom to Buy Canada Mobile Phone Stake

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 5

 BODY:
AT&T and British Telecommunications P.L.C. said today they had agreed to invest almost $1 billion in a mobile phone company controlled by Rogers Communications of Toronto, creating the framework for a cable and phone communications network to take on the domestic giant, Bell Canada.
The investment in Rogers by AT&T and British Telecom is the second foreign deal undertaken by the two phone giants since they formed what was described as a $10 billion joint venture last year. In April, they invested more than $1.8 billion in Japan Telecom. 
 Rogers Communications owns Canada's largest cable television and mobile phone companies. It also has a 16 percent interest in AT&T Canada, which was created in June with the merger of four phone companies that had been competing for long-distance service to business customers. Rogers Cantel is an important subsidiary of Rogers Communications, accounting for 40 percent of its revenue of $2.5 billion last year.
The combination of phone and cable, following the recent pattern of mergers and acquisitions in the United States, has given life to Rogers shares over the last six months, even though the company has seldom made money and has amassed almost $3.4 billion of debt.
Yet Rogers Cantel, which had recently risen amid speculation about possible ventures with foreign partners, fell on the news announced today. On the Toronto Stock Exchange the shares lost 4.9 percent to $31.95 (Canadian), or $21.36 (United States). The parent company's B shares fell 1.6 percent, to $27.90 (Canadian), or $18.65.
Although investors remain intrigued by the broad communications potential of phone combined with cable, the partners in Rogers Cantel are focusing on business customers. Canadian companies, said AT&T's president, John D. Zeglis, "will enjoy the seamless worldwide services they need to compete in the economy of the 21st century."
In the first of a two-step agreement, AT&T and British Telecom will pay $934 million in cash for a 33 percent interest in Rogers Cantel Mobile Communications Inc., after which Rogers Communications will own 51 percent of the mobile phone company. British Telecom will then insure that it participates in future developments by buying one-third of AT&T's 31 percent stake in AT&T Canada for $402 million.
Paul Holman, a vice president of the Dominion Bond Rating Service here, said the investment gave Rogers's mobile phone company more marketing power just as the use of wireless transmission for data is expected to surge. "This brings the international arena to the domestic doorstep," he said.
The parent Rogers Communications also benefits, though indirectly, through the ability to use some of the new investment to help lower its debt, and by establishing a financial rather than just a marketing relationship with the two global giants, Mr. Holman said.
Last month, Rogers Communications took an important step in that direction when the Microsoft Corporation made a $400 million investment in its shares.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BT (NYSE) (96%); BT (LSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (95%); RCI.A (TSX) (92%); RCI (NYSE) (92%); X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (86%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC; ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC; ROGERS CANTEL MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS INC; BELL CANADA BT GROUP PLC (96%); AT&T INC (95%); ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); ROGERS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS INC (86%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); MTS ALLSTREAM INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC; ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC; ROGERS CANTEL MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS INC; BELL CANADA

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); JOINT VENTURES (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); 

PERSON: PRITCHARD, TIMOTHY PAUL HOLMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



133 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Alliance Set by Exchanges Based in Chicago and London

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 4

 BODY:
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, known as Liffe, said today that they had formed an alliance to give customers electronic access to each other's products, a move aimed at cutting traders' costs and improving their efficiency.
The connection will allow customers to trade futures contracts for securities pegged to short-term interest rates for both markets on one computer screen, officials for the two exchanges said in a joint news conference from Chicago and London. 
 The alliance is set to begin early next year and will provide the exchanges' customers access to both the Merc's Globex2 and Liffe's Connect electronic trading systems.
Officials also said they planned a for-profit joint venture to develop products and services -- a proposal that requires regulatory approval in the United States and Britain.
The move is a response to a growing number of alliances in electronic trading, including a recently approved deal between Eurex -- Liffe's Swiss-German competitor -- and the Chicago Board of Trade, the Merc's rival.
"Partnerships like the one we are announcing today are the wave of the future," said Scott Gordon, chairman of the Merc's board, who began revamping the Merc after his election last year.
In years past, there has been resistance to electronic links between the world's exchanges from traders in United States commodity markets who rely on the "open outcry" method of yelling and gesturing to set prices on contracts for future delivery of everything from uncured bacon to financial securities.
But Mr. Gordon said that has quickly changed -- adding that electronic trading is quickly becoming a complement to open outcry.
The deal is not, however, as extensive as the Eurex alliance with the Chicago Board of Trade. That deal calls for the Board of Trade to acquire Eurex's electronic trading system. But officials at the Merc and Liffe say their alliance is unique because it is an "open" system that allows each exchange to set up more trading alliances.
"This is not one exchange merging with or taking over another exchange," said Brian Williamson, Liffe's chairman. "It is not for the benefit of both exchanges; it's a benefit to our customers." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (96%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; LONDON INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL FUTURES AND OPTIONS EXCHANGE CME GROUP INC (96%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (93%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; LONDON INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL FUTURES AND OPTIONS EXCHANGE CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (93%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET FUTURES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); APPROVALS (76%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: SCOTT GORDON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



134 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Increase by 4,000

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
The number of American workers filing for state unemployment benefits rose last week, while the less-volatile four-week average fell to its lowest level in four months.
First-time unemployment claims increased by 4,000, to a seasonally adjusted 279,000, for the week ended July 31, the Labor Department said today. 
 That follows a decline of 40,000 in the previous week, to 275,000.
Even with the rise, last week's level was still the second lowest in two years.
The four-week average for new claims, which smooths out the volatile weekly data, fell to 295,000 last week -- the lowest level since the week ending March 27 -- from 300,000 the previous week.
"The job market is super hot," Astrid Adolfson, an economist at MCM Moneywatch in New York, said before the report.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expected jobless claims to rise to 295,000 last week. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BLOOMBERG LP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); 

PERSON: ASTRID ADOLFSON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



135 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Report Surprisingly Strong Increases

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The strong United States economy combined with a heat wave blanketing much of the country gave Americans a reason to head to air-conditioned stores and malls in July, pushing retail sales to surprisingly strong levels.
The better-than-expected July sales reported yesterday followed big gains in May and June. As a result, Wall Street analysts expect to see robust second-quarter profits when retailers begin to report earnings next week. 
 Sales in stores open at least a year, a crucial industry measurement, rose 6.1 percent last month, according to the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index. It rose 6.5 percent in June and 5.6 percent in May.
"The sales in July were much better than we thought they would be," said Jeffrey Feiner, managing director at Lehman Brothers Inc. "That shows that the consumer feels good about the economy and just keeps buying."
The big winners in July were the discount chains, as shoppers turned to outlets like Wal-Mart Stores and Kmart for a wide selection and affordable prices.
Also faring well were the specialty clothing chains the Limited and Ann Taylor, and Federated Department Stores, which includes the Bloomingdale's and Macy's chains. Stores offering consumer electronics and jewelry also reported strong sales in July.
Even J. C. Penney, which has been struggling in recent months, reported surprising sales gains last month.
While July is often considered a clearance month, retailers did not have much merchandise to unload this year since sales have been strong in recent months. That means that they sold most of their summer inventory at full price, which bodes well for second-quarter earnings.
Already, the Limited and a few other retailers have said their quarterly profits will top Wall Street forecasts.
One weak spot in July was the Gap, which is typically one of the strongest apparel merchants. Analysts cited a deliberate delay in the introduction of fall merchandise and noted that that weakness in the Gap chain offset a solid showing from its Banana Republic and Old Navy units.
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, reported that sales from stores open at least a year rose 9.6 percent compared with July 1998, while total sales rose 11.6 percent.
J. C. Penney said that sales from stores open at least a year increased 4.1 percent. Its Eckerd drugstores had a sales jump of 8 percent at stores open more than 12 months. Total sales for Penney rose 8 percent.
Kmart said sales from stores open at least a year rose 3.8 percent and total sales were up 6 percent.
Sears, Roebuck reported that sales from stores open at least a year were up nine-tenths of a percent, but total sales were down 4.3 percent.
Sales were up 4.7 percent for Federated Department Stores open at least a year and total sales increased 15.7 percent. Federated's total sales include revenue from the Internet and the catalogue seller Fingerhut, which was acquired in March.
Dayton Hudson had a 3.3 percent increase in sales at stores open at least a year and a total sales jump of 8.1 percent.
May Department Stores reported that sales from stores open at least a year rose 1.9 percent and total sales jumped 6.4 percent.
Limited said sales from stores open at least a year jumped 7 percent and total sales were also up 7 percent.
At the Gap, sales from stores open at least a year increased 2 percent and total sales rose 22 percent.
Ann Taylor said that sales from stores open at least a year rose 7.2 percent and total sales were up 19.5 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "Retailers' Sales in July" shows year-to-year changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly same-store sales, from April 1998 through July 1999 and lists percent change in retail sales, total sales and percent change in total sales for selected stores, for the five weeks ended July 31 compared with the similar fiscal period last year. (Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); WMT (NYSE) (70%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (70%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; GOLDMAN SACHS COMMODITY INDEX RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WEATHER (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



136 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: SENATE CONFIRMS U.N. APPOINTMENT AFTER 14 MONTHS

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to confirm Richard C. Holbrooke as chief American delegate to the United Nations, ending a 14-month nomination battle that left the Clinton Administration without a high-profile representative to the United Nations during military conflicts in the Balkans and the Persian Gulf.
The Senate approved Mr. Holbrooke, the former American Ambassador to Germany and the architect of the 1995 peace agreement in Bosnia, on a vote of 81 to 16. 
 No Democrats opposed the nomination. Among the senators voting against confirmation -- 15 Republicans and one independent -- was the majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi.
A spokesman for Mr. Lott, who had questioned Mr. Holbrooke's fitness for the United Nations post, said that the Senator "was too concerned with the apparent ethical lapses of this nominee to give him his vote."
The Clinton Administration hopes that Mr. Holbrooke will inject a new sense of American leadership at the United Nations and that he can repair some of the recent damage done to the relationship between the United States and the world organization.
The relationship has frayed as a result of the Administration's failure to persuade Republican Congressional leaders to pay more than $1 billion in back dues to the United Nations, and because of a perception among senior United Nations officials that the Administration sees the organization as a backwater, with diminishing importance to American foreign policy.
That perception worsened as Mr. Holbrooke's nomination languished month after month, leaving the United States without a permanent representative to the organization.
United Nations officials also were dismayed at the Administration for cutting the United Nations out of the decision-making as NATO warplanes devastated Serbia. They also felt slighted during last December's American-led strikes against Iraq, set off by Baghdad's decision to expel international weapons inspectors, suggesting the strikes were conducted without explicit United Nations approval.
Administration officials believe that Mr. Holbrooke -- whose friends routinely describe him both as the most talented American diplomat of his generation and as a Machiavellian bully of extraordinary ambition -- may be able to find a way to get the back dues paid.
"What has worked on occasion with Milosevic might work with Capitol Hill," said a senior Administration official, referring to Mr. Holbrooke's intense negotiations over the years with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia.
When he moves into his office suite at the United States Mission in Manhattan, Mr. Holbrooke will find himself confronted with the problems of rebuilding Kosovo, an issue he knows well from his long service as a diplomatic troubleshooter in the Balkans.
The United Nations has been given the task of administering Kosovo in the aftermath of the NATO-led assault that forced the Serbian military out of the province, an operation that is among the most complex and expensive ever undertaken by the organization, which is already strained for money and resources.
It will also be left to Mr. Holbrooke to defend American interests on a range of other foreign policy disputes involving the United Nations, notably with Iraq, which has found important foreign allies in its effort to have economic sanctions lifted despite Washington's objections.
The vote today was made possible when the last of four Republicans to invoke senatorial privilege announced earlier this week that he had relinquished his "hold" on the nomination. The lawmaker, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, had delayed the vote over a State Department personnel issue unrelated to Mr. Holbrooke. Mr. Grassley voted today in favor of confirming Mr. Holbrooke.
The President announced in June of last year that he intended to nominate Mr. Holbrooke for the United Nations job, replacing Bill Richardson, who became Energy Secretary.
But the nomination was plagued by delays -- first as a result of Federal ethics investigations into Mr. Holbrooke's contacts with embassies after his resignation from a Government post, then as a result of procedural maneuvers in the Senate.
Many in the Administration are waiting eagerly to see what sort of relationship develops in the Cabinet between Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Mr. Holbrooke, who was runner-up for her position during President Clinton's second term. Mr. Holbrooke, 58, is close to Vice President Al Gore and is seen as likely to lead the State Department in a Gore Administration.
Although Mr. Holbrooke will technically answer to Ms. Albright in his United Nations post, many who know him well believe he will not fit comfortably into the role of her subordinate.
Ms. Albright released a statement today welcoming the appointment. "I feel certain that Ambassador Holbrooke will serve the American people well at the U.N," she said.
In his own statement, Mr. Holbrooke, who was reported today to be on his way to Alaska for a vacation, said that he was "deeply gratified" by the confirmation vote.
While members of Congress might have questioned Mr. Holbrooke's role in policy-making in the Balkans or his larger philosophy of statecraft, they did not dispute that his resume is one of the most impressive in the Foreign Service since World War II.
He joined the State Department shortly after graduating from Brown University in 1962. He rose quickly after his first foreign posting as a junior diplomat at the United States Embassy in Saigon.
In May 1968, he was sent to Paris as a junior member of the American delegation led by W. Averell Harriman to embark on peace talks with Vietnam. In the 1970's, he left Government to edit Foreign Policy magazine but rejoined the State Department in 1977 as Assistant Secretary of State for Asian and Pacific Affairs in the Carter Administration.
Mr. Holbrooke, who has long been allied with the Democratic Party, left Government again with the election of President Reagan and went to Wall Street as an investment banker.
He remained in New York until the 1992 election of Bill Clinton, who named Mr. Holbrooke Ambassador to Germany and then Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs. It was as Assistant Secretary that Mr. Holbrooke oversaw the arduous negotiations that led to the Dayton peace agreement in 1995, ending the war in Bosnia.
During a 35-minute debate before the Senate vote, Senator Joseph R. Biden of Delaware, ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, said that he knew of no nominee to a foreign policy post "more qualified for the job for which he was nominated."
Senator Joseph Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said that Mr. Holbrooke is "one of America's great natural resources."
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas Republican, was the only Senator to speak against the nomination during the debate. She called Mr. Holbrooke a "principled man" and said she admired "his dedication, his tenacity." But she said that he was responsible for a Balkans policy she considered a failure.
"I believe our policy in the Balkans is to force factions to live together in an American model when the circumstances are different from anything we have ever had in our country," she said. "I cannot in good conscience vote for someone who has taken our country in the wrong direction."
Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, the powerful Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, did not vote. He had agreed not to block Mr. Holbrooke's nomination after the Administration lent its support to legislation he co-sponsored that was intended to reduce the American contribution to the United Nations.
His staff said that Mr. Helms was notified only a few minutes before the vote and could not get back to the Senate chamber in time. A spokesman had no comment when asked how the Senator, who supported the nomination when it came before the committee, would have voted. The larger of the Federal ethics inquiries into Mr. Holbrooke began only days after President Clinton announced his intention to nominate Mr. Holbrooke, when an anonymous letter arrived at the offices of the State Department's Inspector General.
The letter questioned whether Mr. Holbrooke, now an investment banker in New York at Credit Suisse First Boston, had done favors for the firm even before resigning from the State Department in 1996 as Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs.
The investigation ended in February, when Mr. Holbrooke agreed to pay $5,000 to the Justice Department to settle civil charges that he had violated Federal lobbying laws in his contacts with the United States Embassy in South Korea shortly after his resignation. He denied any wrongdoing in his contacts, which included a request that the American Ambassador in Seoul set up a meeting for him with South Korea's President.
 
The Senate Roll-Call Vote on Holbrooke
 By The Associated Press
Following is the 81-16 roll-call vote by which the Senate yesterday confirmed Richard Holbrooke as the United States representative at the United Nations. A yes vote was for confirmation. Forty-four Democrats and 37 Republicans voted yes. Fifteen Republicans and one independent voted no.
 
DEMOCRATS YES
Akaka, Hawaii; Baucus, Mont.; Bayh, Ind.; Biden, Del.; Bingaman, N.M.; Boxer, Calif.; Breaux, La.; Bryan, Nev.; Byrd, W.Va.; Cleland, Ga.; Conrad, N.D.; Daschle, S.D.; Dodd, Conn.; Dorgan, N.D.; Durbin, Ill.; Edwards, N.C.; Feingold, Wis.; Feinstein, Calif.; Graham, Fla.; Harkin, Iowa; Hollings, S.C.; Inouye, Hawaii; Johnson, S.D.; Kennedy, Mass.; Kerrey, Neb.; Kerry, Mass.; Kohl, Wis.; Lautenberg, N.J.; Leahy, Vt.; Levin, Mich.; Lieberman, Conn.; Lincoln, Ark.; Murray, Wash.; Mikulski, Md.; Moynihan, N.Y.; Reed, R.I.; Reid, Nev.; Robb, Va.; Rockefeller, W.Va.; Sarbanes, Md.; Schumer, N.Y.; Torricelli, N.J.; Wellstone, Minn.; Wyden, Ore.
 
DEMOCRATS NO
None.
 
DEMOCRAT NOT VOTING
Landrieu, La.
 
REPUBLICANS YES
Abraham, Mich.; Ashcroft, Mo.; Bennett, Utah; Bond, Mo.; Brownback, Kan.; Burns, Mont.; Campbell, Colo.; Chafee, R.I.; Collins, Me.; Cochran, Miss.; Coverdell, Ga.; DeWine, Ohio; Domenici, N.M.; Fitzgerald, Ill.; Frist, Tenn.; Gorton, Va.; Grams, Minn.; Grassley, Iowa; Hagel, Neb.; Hatch, Utah; Lugar, Ind.; Jeffords, Vt.; McCain, Ariz.; McConnell, Ky.; Murkowski, Alaska; Roth, Del.; Santorum, Pa.; Shelby, Ala.; Smith, Ore.; Snowe, Me.; Specter, Pa.; Stevens, Alaska; Thomas, Wyo.; Thurmond, S.C.; Thompson, Tenn.; Voinovich, Ohio; Warner, Va.
 
REPUBLICANS NO
Allard, Colo.; Bunning, Ky.; Craig, Idaho; Enzi, Wyo.; Gramm, Tex.; Gregg, N.H.; Hutchinson, Ark.; Hutchison, Tex.; Inhofe, Okla.; Kyl, Ariz.; Lott, Miss.; Mack, Fla.; Nickles, Okla.; Roberts, Kan.; Sessions, Ala.
 
REPUBLICANS NOT VOTING
Crapo, Idaho; Helms, N.C.
 
INDEPENDENT NO
 Smith, N.H.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard C. Holbrooke, who will defend U.S. interests on a range of foreign policy disputes at the U.N. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ETHICS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOTT, TRENT (SEN) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (92%); TRENT LOTT (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



137 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Net Stocks Rebound; Nasdaq Rises

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Internet stocks rebounded yesterday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index for the first time in six sessions, as many investors sought out bargains and Treasuries rallied.
"We saw a major rebound in the Internet stocks today," said Timothy M. Ghriskey, senior portfolio manager at the Dreyfus Corporation. Even so, many investors appear to be awaiting this morning's report of the national unemployment figures for July. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 119.05 points, or 1.12 percent, to close at 10,793.82, in a turbulent session in which it dropped as much as 108.59 points in early trading.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rallied 8.38 points, or six-tenths of a percent, to 1,313.71. The Nasdaq, which had its biggest intraday upswing since mid-April, closed up 25.83 points, or 1.02 percent, to 2,565.81.
Many technology issues swung wildly during the trading session. Ebay, for example, traded as low as 70 9/32 before closing at 92 7/8, up 17 1/8. Amazon.com was ahead 8 13/16 for the day, to 97 1/4. And Yahoo slumped to 110 before rallying to end at 128 3/8, up 7 3/8.
Even America Online, which suffered from word that it may face Internet competition from Microsoft, regained some lost ground. The stock, which was the most actively traded of the day with 57.1 million shares changing hands, plunged to 76 15/16 before climbing back to 83 15/16, down 3 1/2.
Although many analysts had eagerly awaited productivity figures from the Labor Department, they seemed to have had minimal impact in a session that also experienced a flight to quality in the bond market, the successful completion of a huge Wal-Mart financing and a lingering glow from Wednesday's disclosure that the Treasury plans to redeem some debt early.
The productivity gain, which Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, cited in his recent Congressional appearances, was at a slower-than-expected 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter. But unit labor costs, which are considered a crucial measure of wage pressures, grew faster than economists had forecast. They surged to an annual rate of 3.8 percent.
"These are the kinds of data -- the combination of increased compensation and lower productivity -- that are confirming the Fed's fears," said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at the Bank of America.
The Federal Reserve policy makers are scheduled to meet Aug. 24 to decide whether the economy is slowing enough on its own -- without further interest rate increases -- to avoid a pickup in inflation.
But Rosanne M. Cahn, equity economist at Credit Suisse First Boston, contended that productivity "wasn't bad" considering the quarter's slowdown in output.
Before the market opens today the Labor Department will report on the employment situation for July, one of the most important Government economic statistics each month.
Among the winners yesterday was I.B.M., which set the pace for the Dow Jones blue chips, rising 4 11/16, to 123 3/16. I.B.M. said its scientists made a major, though early-stage, breakthrough in storage technology.
American Express gained 3 5/8, to 127 1/8, as it announced heavy investment in Internet products.
Union Carbide, which will be acquired by Dow Chemical, gained a further 3 9/16, to 62 15/16, while DuPont rose 2 1/2, to 74. Dow Chemical rebounded 5 11/16, to 124 5/16, after losing 6 1/16 on its Wednesday bid for Union Carbide.
General Motors was down 1 13/16 to 61, and Goodyear declined 1 5/16, to 52 11/16.
Several oil stocks posted hefty gains, with Royal Dutch up 2 3/16, to 62 9/16, with the help of a better-than- expected 4.7 percent profit gain.
Despite the turnaround experienced yesterday, said Peter J. Canelo, a Morgan Stanley strategist, the market is likely to continue to be under pressure from forced liquidation in Internet issues. That "bubble is bursting," he said.
On the New York Stock Exchange, declining issues held a 3-to-2 margin over advancing ones, with 203 stocks making new lows and only 40, new highs. Volume was 854.2 million, up from 781.2 million on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); AOL INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); STATISTICS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



138 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Bear Stearns Agrees to Pay Fines of $38.5 Million
Bear Stearns has agreed to pay $38.5 million in fines and restitution relating to its role as the processor of securities trades for A. R. Baron, a small New York brokerage firm that collapsed in 1996. 
 Although the $38.5 million that Bear Stearns has agreed to pay is immaterial to the wealthy firm, the damage to its reputation among clients, creditors and peers will almost certainly be great. Page A1.
 
F.C.C. Relaxes TV Ownership Rules
William E. Kennard, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said the group had decided to relax rules that have limited television station ownership. The new provisions will allow a single company or network to own two stations in the nation's largest cities. One immediate result of the decision may be a rush by big TV companies to buy stations in cities where they already own a station. A1.
 
Congress Passes Tax Cut Plan
Congress approved a Republican tax cut plan that would lower the income taxes of all Americans who owe them, but President Clinton has said he intends to veto it. A17.
 
Retail Sales Rose 6.1% in July
The strong economy combined with a heat wave blanketing much of the country gave Americans a reason to head to air-conditioned stores and malls in July, pushing retail sales to a surprisingly strong 6.1 percent gain. C7.
 
Gain in Output Slows as Costs Rise
Growth in worker productivity slowed considerably in the second quarter, to an annual rate of 1.3 percent, while unit labor costs surged at an annual rate of 3.8 percent. C2.
 
Majority Stake Sold in Travel Site
Rosenbluth International, the travel management company, bought a majority stake in Biztravel.com, an Internet site for making business travel arrangements. C2.
 
Yield on the 30-Year Treasury Falls
Treasury prices rose for a second day as the pricing of a huge debt issue by Wal-Mart Stores failed to hurt the sale of Government paper. But traders expect that Treasuries could have a difficult time pushing higher in the weeks ahead, with about $44 billion more in debt sales scheduled. The yield on the 30-year issue fell to 6.04 percent from 6.09 percent. C7.
 
Phone Giants Make a Deal in Canada
AT&T and British Telecommunications said they had agreed to invest almost $1 billion in a mobile phone company controlled by Rogers Communications of Toronto, creating the framework for a cable and phone communications network to take on the domestic giant, Bell Canada. C4.
 
France's Bank Struggle Continues
With only a day left before investors must choose sides in France's three-way bank struggle, Banque Nationale de Paris appeared to inch closer to victory in its hostile bid for Paribas, one of two rivals it is seeking to control. But investors in the other target, Societe Generale, appeared deeply split, raising the prospect that a final verdict may fall to French regulators. C4.
 
Abercrombie & Fitch Turns to TV
Abercrombie & Fitch, the clothing retailer that aims its apparel at college-age consumers, is expanding its marketing campaign from magazine-style catalogues to commercials that will run on cable TV and on monitors in stores nationwide. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,793.82 up 119.05
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.04% down 0.05
The euro -- $1.076 down 0.002
The dollar -- 114.30 yen up 0.01
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows the unemployment rate, from January through June, and total consumer borrowing, from December 1998 through May 1999. Expected figures due today. Expected:
 
July's unemployment rate: 4.2%
June's total consumer borrowing: $5.0 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BNP (PAR) (61%); BNP (BIT) (61%); RCI.A (TSX) (53%); RCI (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (61%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (51%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); BIZTRAVEL.COM (65%); BNP PARIBAS SA (61%); ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FINES & PENALTIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); VETO (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); WEATHER (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); APPROVALS (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



139 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
F.C.C. WILL PERMIT OWNING 2 STATIONS IN BIG TV MARKETS

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission voted yesterday to relax rules that have limited television-station ownership for most of the century, allowing for the first time a single company or network to own two stations in the nation's largest cities.
One immediate result of the decision may be a rush by big TV companies like the broadcast networks to sweep up any available television stations in cities where they already own a station. As one memo to top corporate officers at a broadcast network put it, "The race is on." 
 Networks and other big station companies want to own more than one station in a market because it increases their presence in areas that are becoming increasingly crowded with other viewing options, like cable and satellite channels. It also allows them to save money on programming and personnel costs and gives them another outlet for shows they own.
For viewers in the biggest markets like New York, the change could lead to more local news and sports programming, which the networks said yesterday they would look to add to their new channels.
For example, in New York, Fox, which owns Channel 5, could buy Channel 31, which is owned by Paxson Communications, or even Channel 9, which is owned by Chris-Craft Industries, and use it for additional programming.
 "For the economic model, it's great to own two stations in one market," said Paul T. Sweeney, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. "I think we are going to start seeing a lot of big-ticket deals."
The chairman of the F.C.C., William E. Kennard, said the commission was acting to update regulations that were put into place largely in the 1930's and 1940's to insure a diversity of media choices.
Mr. Kennard called the changes "common-sense rules that recognize the dramatic changes that the media marketplace has undergone" in the last 30 years.
The new F.C.C. standards will allow dual ownership in cities where there are a sufficient number of "media voices," which include all radio and television stations, large daily newspapers and cable systems. Specifically, a city must have at least eight independently owned television stations for a single company to own two. And a company cannot own more than one of the four top-rated stations in any market.
All of the country's top 50 cities have that many, but several have only eight, which may mean "an intense game of musical chairs," as one senior network executive put it. "The 'voice' test means you know you may have to get in fast."
"It's going to be a land rush to some degree," the executive added.
The decision will not result in a wholesale changeover in the control of stations, which had been feared by some station owners six months ago. Still, many industry executives said yesterday that the opportunity to own two stations in a single market was likely to encourage a surge in station sales in the coming months. Networks like CBS and the News Corporation's Fox broadcasting unit are expected to be especially aggressive in seeking second stations in cities where they already own one.
Mr. Kennard said that the F.C.C. enacted the changes because TV station ownership had become a morass of confusing waivers from regulations. Numerous stations, for example, are operated under local marketing agreements, in which one company owns a TV station and controls programming on another station ostensibly owned by another company. Such exemptions, Mr. Kennard said, are a "kind of artifice" intended to circumvent existing limits.
"We are bringing some certainty and coherence to a situation plagued by confusion and rule by waiver," Mr. Kennard said. "The marketplace was crying out for coherence."
The commission voted 4 to 1 for the new system, which enacts rules that spell out more clearly what constitutes ownership of a station, how many stations one company can own and under which circumstances it can own more than one station in a single market.
While it loosened rules on TV ownership, it tightened them for radio stations in some cases, limiting one company to six stations in a city with at least 20 total stations, or seven if the company owns only one TV station. Until now, the F.C.C. had issued waivers allowing one company to own as many as eight radio stations in one market, along with one TV station.
The ruling did not affect ownership of other media, including newspapers. Current rules prohibit newspapers and television stations to have the same owner in the same market, but some dual-ownership situations have been grandfathered in.
The F.C.C.'s decision was widely praised by both industry executives and public-interest advocates. Martin D. Franks, a senior vice president at CBS, said, "Bill Kennard deserves a lot of credit for cleaning up the mess accrued from seven to eight years of regulating by waiver."
Several station groups have been able to operate two stations in markets, usually smaller ones, by winning waivers from the F.C.C. that allowed local marketing agreements.
"Once you create this class of waiver people, it becomes unfair to people who are playing by the rules," Mr. Franks said.
Andrew Jay Schwartzman, the president of the Media Access Project, a public-interest group in Washington, said that while he had hoped for more steps to insure diversity in station ownership, the commission deserved praise for closing loopholes in station-ownership restrictions that had rendered the existing rules unfair.
"Now if you run it, you own it," Mr. Schwartzman said. "It had become like the Wild West. I think over all Bill Kennard did a good job under severe political pressure."
But perhaps most pleased were the owners of stations who may now become the subjects of bidding wars by suddenly unfettered buyers. Among the logical targets is KCAL, an independent station in Los Angeles, which had been put up for bid along with other stations by Young Broadcasting several months ago only to be withdrawn when no satisfactory bid was forthcoming.
Another likely winner is Lowell W. Paxson, whose Paxson Communications owns stations in the 20 biggest cities and 43 of the top 50. Mr. Paxson said he was about to uncork champagne last night.
"If we're going into the duopoly game, we're the prettiest girl at the duop dance," he said.
After struggling for the last two years to begin his own network, one based on family programming, Mr. Paxon said he would now consider offers to sell his holdings. "If I got the right price, I would owe that to my shareholders," he said.
Mr. Paxson said he would also consider a joint venture with a partner who, under the new regulations, could buy as much as 32 percent of his company. He said he had already had some preliminary discussions with potential bidders.
The big station-owning groups, which include the four biggest networks, have actively sought deregulation to expand their holdings. They have argued that with the ever-multiplying array of viewing choices -- including hundreds of cable channels, satellite channels and coming digital channels -- they need to be able to compete by adding more channels of their own.
The F.C.C. now limits station groups to ownership of stations that cover no more than 35 percent of the country's households, and yesterday's ruling did not address that regulation.
Mr. Kennard said that issue was likely to be taken up in the fall, and he has not taken a public position on that ownership cap. "I will have something to say about it then."
All the networks are close to that cap, with Fox and CBS at the limit. Only through this decision on dual ownership can they expand in the short term.
Jessica Reif-Cohen, an analyst for Merrill Lynch, noted that the biggest cities have more than enough stations to go around for acquisitive networks -- 16 in New York, 19 in Los Angeles, 13 in Chicago.
She said that the networks could use a second station for a variety of purposes -- adding programs produced by the existing station's news department, for example, or running repeats of shows that the parent network owns, or to provide a home for sports programs.
Fox has such wide interests in sports, especially in Los Angeles, where the company owns the Dodgers, that KCAL may be an especially inviting prize. "Fox has sports and kids programming, it could fill that channel easily," Ms. Reif-Cohen said.
Fox also has a large library of other programming, including films. One Fox executive noted that a Fox all-movie channel on cable has had little impact so far. "Would that programming be better served on a second broadcast outlet in major cities?" the executive said.
Not every network official saw yesterday's ruling as momentous. One senior executive called the changes "small potatoes" in terms of what the networks need to do to protect themselves financially. The networks, he said, must own many more outlets to compete with cable and other viewing options.
Mr. Schwartzman, the public-interest advocate, called that position nonsense, saying, "The networks are thriving businesses that are not suffering and dying." He argued against further regulation that would open the industry only to owners "with deep pockets."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ION (AMEX) (55%); NQE (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION ION MEDIA NETWORKS INC (55%); CHRIS-CRAFT INDUSTRIES INC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); CITIES (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; KENNARD, WILLIAM E (CHMN) WILLIAM E KENNARD (84%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



140 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Montenegro Moves to Alter Tie to Serbia

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PODGORICA, Montenegro, Aug. 5

 BODY:
In a prelude to a bid for independence, Montenegro said today that it wanted to abolish its federation with Serbia in Yugoslavia in favor of a loose partnership that would allow each republic to go its own way.
A draft plan approved today by Montenegro's government would give it the right to maintain its own army, foreign ministry and currency while remaining loosely linked to Serbia in an "Association of the States of Serbia and Montenegro." 
 President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is almost certain to reject the proposal, in which case Montenegro plans a referendum on full independence.
That possibility has raised widespread fears that Mr. Milosevic might try to intervene with force, as he did in the former Yugoslav republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and most recently in Kosovo, the southern province in Serbia.
Montenegro, with 630,000 people, and Serbia, with 10 million, are the only two republics left in Yugoslavia, which began to disintegrate violently eight years ago after the collapse of Communist rule. Montenegro's Western-leaning government has been sharply at odds with President Milosevic over his handling of Kosovo, the economy and foreign relations.
The plan "represents a major step toward a sovereign Montenegro because we are moving from the dead end called Yugoslavia," said Zarko Vukcevic, a member of Montenegro's ruling coalition.
With Serbia regarded as a pariah by many nations, Montenegro has sought to distance itself. The prime minister, Filip Vujanovic, said the plan would free Montenegro to "secure democratic and economic development" and join European and world institutions without "harming" Serbia.
In Washington, the Clinton Administration again expressed its support for Montenegro, and accused Belgrade of trying to strip Montenegro of its constitutional rights and powers. The State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said Montenegro's leaders were showing "a measured and rational approach to political and economic reform," which he said the United States supported.
At the same time, the Administration has opposed independence for the republic. "We think that they should continue to work within Yugoslavia to insure their rights are protected," Mr. Rubin said.
The republic's president, Milo Djukanovic has said Serbia would have six weeks to accept or reject the proposal before a referendum on independence would be called.
Mr. Milosevic's spokesman refused to comment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Montenegro: Montenegro has tried to distance itself without provoking Serbia.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); SERBIA (96%); MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); SERBIA (96%); MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; REFERENDUMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



141 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: School Agency Ignored Report, State Says

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
State investigators said in court papers filed this week that school construction officials were warned of structural problems at a Bronx elementary school two weeks before a section of its wall collapsed in the spring.
The investigators said that despite the warnings, the School Construction Authority "failed to take adequate measures to prevent the collapse or assure the safety of the students, teachers, workers and other persons in and around the school." 
 The investigators work for a special commission that Gov. George E. Pataki appointed to examine possible corruption and mismanagement in the New York City schools.
A 28-foot section of masonry fell into the courtyard of Public School 89 on the evening of April 7, but no one was injured, in part because the school was closed for spring vacation. Construction officials and the school's principal had also immediately closed the courtyard after the initial warning that the wall was unsafe.
A spokesman for the construction authority, which is responsible for the construction and rehabilitation of the city's schools, said yesterday that the commission's charges were unfair. The authority took action as quickly as possible, he said, including closing the area to teachers and children.
The investigators contend that the School Construction Authority has withheld key documents describing the collapse. Lawyers for the commission have asked a State Supreme Court judge to order the authority to turn over the documents.
In the court papers, investigators said they want to know how the construction authority responded to the warnings. The papers note that the authority did not award an emergency contract to fix the wall until after the collapse.
At the time of the collapse, P.S. 89 was undergoing limited repairs, including the replacement of some windows, the court documents said. On March 24, one of the contractors working at the school warned the principal that a section of the brick wall appeared to be unsafe, officials at the Board of Education said. After examining the wall, the principal and the construction authority closed the courtyard.
On April 1, according to documents that the construction authority provided to the commission, an architect examined the wall and reported a problem with the brick facade to authority officials. In the report, he said that the situation was an emergency and "requires your urgent and immediate attention."
An engineer also checked the wall. On April 7, the day of the collapse, he reported that the "condition represents a serious safety hazard" and "should be addressed immediately," according to the court records.
In the court papers, the commission said that the construction authority took preliminary steps to assess the condition of the wall, but never ordered an emergency contract to prevent the collapse. The court papers also said that masonry work was performed at the school several years before the accident, and that the commission also intends to investigate how that work was performed.
A spokesman for the construction authority said yesterday that the commission's charge that the authority failed to safeguard public safety was not upheld by the facts. He said the authority moved as quickly as possible. "We were aware of the crack, we met with the principal, and the courtyard was closed," said Jack Deacy, the authority spokesman. "We sent in engineers who made a survey. By the time they got the survey to us, there was a collapse."
The court papers said that the commission has received documents from confidential informants, including photocopies of construction authority reports about the collapse. The authority did not provide some of these documents after the commission had issued subpoenas, the court papers said.
"From the outset of this investigation, the S.C.A. has consistently attempted to shield itself from criticism and avoid responsibility for its own failures," Roslynn R. Mauskopf, the commission chairwoman, said yesterday. "The agency has intimidated its employees to prevent candid and objective testimony and has withheld critical documents that reflect its mismanagement of a dangerous condition that jeopardized the safety of students and teachers."
Authority officials said yesterday that they have copied thousands of documents in compliance with commission requests. They said that if documents were not provided, it was probably due to an oversight and the problem would be corrected.
"We are bending over backward to cooperate with them," said Charles Stillman, an authority trustee. "Our people are doing their level human best to provide the documents required." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC) SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC) SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES) SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (76%); LAWYERS (75%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); JUDGES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



142 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Arms Sales Are Down Worldwide but U.S. Still Leads in Exports

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
The United States remained the world's biggest arms exporter in a sluggish market last year, as the weak economies in Asia and among oil producers in the Middle East dragged global sales to developing countries to the lowest level since 1991, according to an authoritative Government report.
The report, released today by the Congressional Research Service, an arm of the Library of Congress, showed that the United States negotiated new agreements to sell $7.1 billion worth of weapons in 1998, nearly 31 percent of the $23 billion in sales worldwide. The United States easily surpassed Germany, which sold $5.5 billion, and France, which had $3 billion in new sales. 
 The United States also led the world in delivering arms ordered in previous years, making $7.8 billion worth of deliveries in 1998.
Russia, which four years ago briefly knocked the United States out of the spot as the world's top arms merchant, has seen its exports steadily drop, despite increases in sales of fighter aircraft and other weapons to China. In 1998, Russia reached agreements to sell only $1.7 billion worth of arms, compared with $3.3 billion in 1997 and $5.3 billion in 1996.
The $23 billion in worldwide arms sales showed a slight increase over 1997, when the worst of the Asian economic crisis hit, but it was far below the levels in the early 1990's, when the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Persian Gulf war led to an arms-buying spree. In 1993, arms sales worldwide reached $37 billion.
Arms sales to the developing world -- defined in the report as all nations except the United States, Russia, Western Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand -- dropped sharply overall. But the United States increased its sales to those countries to $4.6 billion, from $2.6 billion the year before.
The report predicted that the Asian economic troubles and the relatively low prices for crude oil would prolong the slump in arms purchases by developing countries, which until recently have accounted for a majority of international arms sales.
"Competition for available arms sales continues to intensify among major weapons suppliers," the report said. "The limited resources of most developing nations to expend on weapons and the need to many selling nations to secure cash for their weapons continues to place constraints on significant expansion of the arms trade."
The report said Saudi Arabia, in particular, was struggling to keep up with earlier purchases and that the country, the world's largest arms buyer, had trouble meeting the monthly payments for its contracts.
Thomas A. Cardamone Jr., an analyst for the Council for a Livable World Education Fund, which advocates arms control, said the report's findings underscored the fact that the United States was continuing to put more arms into the hands of others than any other country.
He noted that the United States retained its dominance of the international arms markets without any multibillion-dollar sales being completed. Instead, most sales involved less costly items, including upgrades to existing systems. "It's $7 billion worth of spare parts," he said. "Without a major arms sale last year, the U.S. still leads the world."
This dominance is likely to grow, he added, if the United States completes pending deals. Israel is to purchase $2.5 billion worth of F-16's, and the United Arab Emirates nearly $8 billion worth of the planes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); ASIA (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (83%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (83%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (58%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (83%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (83%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (58%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); ASIA (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMS TRADE (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



143 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: A Battlefield of Dreams for Iowa Farmers

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: DYERSVILLE, Iowa

 BODY:
All that really happened here is that someone shot a movie.
It's not the house where Elvis was born. Or the theater where Lincoln was shot. In fact, what is striking is how people can get nostalgic over make-believe these days, steered by the emotional pull of a vivid Hollywood invention. 
 But that is not how people here see it. They consider themselves custodians of a slice of the American dream. They paint it as a battle between entrepreneurial freedom and the moment that a landmark, even a made-up landmark, becomes too commercial.
And since it is an American story, it is, of course, also about baseball.
The place is a cornfield in eastern Iowa where Hollywood built the set of "Field of Dreams." The 1989 movie was a sensation, a fanciful, sentimental story of a farmer (Kevin Costner) who hears a voice telling him to build a baseball diamond in his field -- "If you build it, he will come" -- and is rewarded with the magical appearance of his dead father and the unfairly maligned Shoeless Joe Jackson.
Suddenly, as the film's famous line promised, some 50,000 people a year did start coming to the baseball diamond in the cornfield.
People still come, but now the object of their pilgrimage is ensnared in a bitter disagreement between the farm couple who own most of the outfield and the farm couple who own most of the infield. One side feels the other has over-commercialized things and is going to court to try to stop it.
Each side has its own entrance sign. Don and Becky Lansing, who own right field, most of the infield and the white farmhouse used in the movie, have a sign proclaiming their property the "Original Field of Dreams Movie Site" and calling the gravel road to their side the "main entrance."
Steps away, on a parallel gravel road, Al and Rita Ameskamp, who own left field, most of center field, third base and the cornfield from which the movie's phantom ballplayers emerge, have a sign promoting "Left and Center Field of Dreams" and directing visitors to "enter here."
Each side has a gift shop, with the Lansings selling white pickets from the movie fence for $25 apiece and the Ameskamps selling $2 vials of "dream dirt" from the field, complete with an "affidavit of authenticity" signed by Al and Rita. (Both shops, incidentally, sell "temperature-sensitive" T-shirts featuring a cornfield that reveals baseball players when the shirts get warm.)
This summer, for the movie's 10th anniversary, the Ameskamps wanted to attract tourists with a cornfield maze, shaped like Shoeless Joe at bat, with trivia questions along the way, like Who directed the movie? (It was Phil Alden Robinson.) They got their property rezoned for the maze, and since July 31 they have charged visitors $6 to walk through.
To the Lansings, who say they want the movie site to be "authentic" and not "over-commercialized," this was the last straw. The couple, who no longer allow organized events, like ball games, on the infield, have filed to try to prevent attractions like the maze in the future.
"Everything we want to do, they say no," Mrs. Ameskamp said. "Sometimes it brings tears to your eyes. We love our Field of Dreams."
Mrs. Lansing, who says her side wants only to make enough money to keep up the site, was asked if the two farms could mend fences.
"What's going to make Communist countries and non-Communist countries come together?" she retorted. "What's going to make men and women come together? What's going to make blacks and whites come together? We're just trying to protect this piece of heaven. We want to tell the world that preserving historical sites is important."
This friction saddens the author of the book on which "Field of Dreams" was based, W. P. Kinsella, who is on Christmas-card terms with both families and is not offended by the corn maze.
"It's too bad that they can't get along because I think they both sort of want the same thing," Mr. Kinsella said from his home in Chilliwack, British Columbia. "The Lansings sell souvenirs and stuff, so what's the difference? People expect that sort of thing from a tourist attraction. If I were the Lansings, I would certainly make a buck out of it."
Mr. Kinsella noted that in his book, "Shoeless Joe," and the movie, the seemingly foolhardy step of plowing up corn for a ball field drew people willing to pay $20 apiece.
"I would go by the book, by my book," he said. "If I owned the property, I'd be charging $20. After all, this is America."
Truth be told, for a figment of Hollywood and a tourist site that could easily turn kitschy, the Field of Dreams is remarkably unspoiled. Anyone can come without charge and hit balls, run bases or stroll the cornfield where the actors James Earl Jones, Ray Liotta and Burt Lancaster disappeared.
Except for a highway billboard (paid for by the Lansings) and competing tourist brochures and Web sites, there is little promotional hoopla. And people go miles out of their way to recapture the movie's nostalgic air, rekindle father-son relationships or play ball with tourists they do not know.
The ball field was built on two farms because the movie people needed both to get the sunset lined up the way they wanted. After the filming, Mr. Lansing built the first souvenir stand. Mr. Ameskamp plowed under his portion and planted corn for a year or two, until tourists asked for the outfield back.
In the early cinematic afterglow, the farms jointly managed their famous base paths and cornstalks. They allowed Buick and Wheaties commercials and a fantasy camp.
In 1995, Becky, 45, came as a tourist from Colorado and met and married Mr. Lansing, 57, who grew up on his farm.
Things began to change. The Lansings say they felt the movie site's essence would be compromised by commercialism. They objected in 1996 when the Ameskamps leased their property and made a profit-sharing arrangement with a group called Left and Center Field of Dreams, financed by four out-of-state investors and run by a former Dyersville farmer. The group manages the gift shop, the maze and the Ghost Players, who stage baseball exhibitions in old-time uniforms.
The Ameskamps, 63 and 59, farmers here for 32 years, say they were about to retire and merely wanted things managed by skilled people.
When the Ameskamp side sought zoning board permission for batting cages and a gift shop expansion, the other side lobbied successfully to block the cages and to allow the shop to grow only as big as the Lansings'.
At some point, the Lansings stopped organized infield events, including free Ghost Players exhibitions. (The players, several of whom were in the movie, now emerge from the corn and play only on left and center field, putting down makeshift bases.) A July 4 tournament held this year by the Ameskamp side to promote putting Shoeless Joe in the Baseball Hall of Fame held games on community ballfields.
The Lansings have also put up signs that say things like "The souvenir stand at third base is operated by an out-of-state investment banking firm and is not associated with the Lansing farm or family."
This summer, the Ameskamps decided to rezone part of their farm commercial so they could charge admission for attractions like the maze without getting approval each time. Mrs. Lansing has filed to get the zoning overturned, warning that commercial zoning could lead to "hotels, bowling alleys, bus depots."
Keith Rahe, who manages Left and Center Field of Dreams, said the rezoning barred permanent structures. He said his side wanted only occasional events like baseball demonstrations, which he said would help Dyersville, a town of 3,700 that rests on a limping farm economy and whose other attraction is the National Farm Toy Museum. Mr. Rahe added that the events would bring money to the Lansings, too.
"You have this trivial little squabble over this," Mr. Rahe said.
Mrs. Lansing said it was hardly trivial.
"You think the Field of Dreams and the issues that involved one of the most popular movies at the end of the 20th century is petty and small?" she said with a gasp. "You think it's silly for us to protect a vision? It's not petty. It's huge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Sigovich of Lansdowne, Pa., recording his daughter Dana, wife, Jan, and son, Jon, as they emerged from the "Field of Dreams" corn. (Phil Velasquez/The Chicago Tribune)(pg. A1); Two Iowa couples, Becky and Don Lansing, left, and Rita and Al Ameskamp, have different visions of how the site used in the movie "Field of Dreams" should be maintained. The dispute has led to two signs, two gift shops and baseball games that are played on only part of the diamond. (Photographs by Phil Velasquez/The Chicago Tribune)(pg. A16)
 
Photo/Chart: "SORTING IT OUT: A Diamond Divided"
The baseball diamond built for the movie Field of Dreams has divided ownership: Don and Becky Lansing own right field, most of the infield and the white farmhouse used in the movie. Al and Rita Ameskamp own left field, most of center field, third base and the cornfield from which the movie's phantom ballplayers emerge. (The New York Times; Photograph by Phil Velasquez/The Chicago Tribune)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FIELD OF DREAMS (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); FILM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); ATHLETES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; AMESKAMP, RITA; AMESKAMP, AL; LANSING, BECKY; LANSING, DON KEVIN MICHAEL COSTNER (56%); JOE JACKSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



144 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Wall Street Salaries Up 10 Percent in '98

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Wall Street traders and investment bankers earned almost $200,000 on average last year, a 10 percent jump over 1997 that dwarfed the raises of other New York City workers, said a state report released yesterday.
The report, by State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, said the earnings gap between Wall Street and the rest of the city continued to widen in 1998 despite pay advances in other sectors. Workers outside the financial arena earned an average of $41,700 last year, a 5.2 percent increase over 1997. 
 "In the last five years," Mr. McCall said, "Wall Street salaries have shot up 72 percent while salaries in the rest of the city's economy have only grown 17 percent."
The pay gap highlights another distressing fact for many city residents: bulging wallets and sizzling profits on Wall Street are pushing prices for Manhattan real estate and rental apartments out of reach for many workers.
Economists, however, say there is a trickle-down effect. Herbert Gans, a professor of sociology at Columbia University, said well-heeled Wall Streeters patronize expensive shops and restaurants, which employ lower-paid workers.
Beyond the trickle-down effect, Mr. McCall warned that the city's dependence on Wall Street profits put it at risk if the sector should hit a downturn. Financial services employees earn 18 percent of the total wages in the city, but hold only 4.8 percent of all New York City jobs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); BONDS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); 

PERSON: MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) H CARL MCCALL (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999



145 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
30-Year Yield Isat Highest In 20 Months

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Yields of United States Government bonds surged yesterday to their highest level in 20 months after the Labor Department's July employment report added to the mounting concern that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates later this month.
Federal Reserve policy makers raised the target rate for overnight lending by a quarter-point, to 5 percent, on June 30. 
 "The strength depicted in the July employment report assures an Aug. 24 Federal Reserve firming," Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond dropped 1 20/32 to a price of 87 19/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, climbed to 6.17 percent, from 6.04 percent on Thursday, the highest since 6.20 percent on Nov. 20, 1997. For investors, the day's loss amounted to about $16.25 for each $1,000 invested in bonds.
Over the last two weeks, three inflation signals have pushed bond prices lower: yesterday's wage data, Thursday's bigger-than-expected increase in unit labor costs and last week's jump in the Government's employment cost index.
The Government reported yesterday that the economy had added 310,000 jobs in July, while wages rose half of 1 percent and the unemployment rate remained at 4.3 percent. All pointed to an increased threat of inflation.
Jack Ablin, president of Colonial Asset Management Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla., said the strength of the bond market's decline had done much to remove uncertainty about the timing of the next interest rate increase.
"The bond market certainly has been betting the Fed will raise rates, but the question up until now has been the timing of such a move," Mr. Ablin said. "Now market participants are pretty sure and are positioning themselves for an August Fed move."
Also weighing on bonds is a heavy schedule of Government and corporate issues, starting with next week's $37 billion Government quarterly refunding. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (66%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JACK ABLIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



146 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Nairobi Embassy Blast Survivors Still Struggling

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Aug. 6

 BODY:
Until Aug. 7, 1998, one year ago, Douglas Sidialo was a car salesman who drove around Nairobi for his job. He tells a dark little joke about why that line of work is closed off to him now. "If I drove cars," he said, "I would knock people over."
He was blinded completely by glass and debris that exploded through his windshield that day when terrorists bombed the United States Embassy here. More than 200 people were killed and 5,000 wounded here and in a simultaneous attack on the American Embassy in Tanzania. 
 His story is one of the more inspirational. He started a group of survivors -- called, with a vein of irony, Visual Seventh August -- to provide counseling and job training and to watch over how aid money is spent. He wears a smile and sunglasses, both oversized, and works hard to set an example for other victims without his resilience.
"I can't reverse the blast," Mr. Sidialo, 29, said. "I have to accept what happened and move on."
Yet he still has no job. The other day he went to the local Red Cross, along with perhaps 100 other victims of the blast, to pick up free food -- a few bags of cornmeal and cooking oil -- to help him survive.
The bomb may have been aimed at Americans, as many people here bitterly remind each other, but there is no question that Kenyans have suffered the most. A year later, they are still coming to terms with such devastation. It has been hard even for the optimistic ones, like Mr. Sidialo, and simply grim for others.
And so the nation's recovery from the bomb blast has come with its own set of victories and setbacks.
Many Kenyans, split by ethnic, religious and class differences, say the blast gave them a greater sense of unity, just as they pulled together a year ago hauling the wounded from the rubble or donating blood en masse. A Government fund to compensate victims apparently did not fall prey to the nation's legendary corruption.
Some outsiders who have helped Kenya recover from the blast -- the United States has donated $42.3 million -- say they have noticed subtle differences in Kenyan society, some out of bomb-related necessity.
"When I started, mental health was seen as a service only provided to people who were blatantly psychotic," said Dr. Lorin Minless, a Boston psychiatrist who is a consultant for counseling services for some 2,000 bomb survivors and their families. "The idea of getting help outside of the family didn't exist. The bomb blast helped sensitize people."
But on some level the unity was short-lived. People have not even agreed how to commemorate the bombing's anniversary, marked in a weekend of rallies, concerts and other events: there are four separate memorial services on Saturday, each claiming to be the official one.
And the money handed out by the Government that was supposed to make life easier for the victims has backfired in some cases, the compensation squandered or stolen.
Doreen Auma's husband, a shoe salesman, was killed in the blast. As she took his body to western Kenya for burial, she said, his family decided not to recognize the marriage and emptied their house of everything: furniture, dishes, even the stove.
Of the roughly $9,200 that the Government paid for her husband's death, his family took $6,500. Now she is nearly broke.
"I have spent everything," Ms. Auma, 25, she said as she, too, collected the free Red Cross food to feed their two children, ages 6 and 7.
There is also still much anger in Kenya over the blast. Some of it remains directed at the United States, criticized in the early days for seeming to care more about the 12 Americans killed than the more than 200 Kenyans. Now, with unemployment sky-high and per capita income dropping, many people say the United States should do more.
"What the Americans gave to the victims was not enough," said Julius Mashalia Isalambo, 37, a grocer in downtown Nairobi. "It's like we are fighting their war."
Mr. Isalambo is not a victim of the blast and, interestingly, most of the victims themselves say they do not blame the United States, even though some 2,500 of them have joined in class-action lawsuits against the United States Government.
Francis Gitu Maina, 33, clenched his fists on a recent evening when asked if he was angry at anyone over the blast.
"So much," he said. But he said he blamed "the ones who came to bomb," suspected to be Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile, who has denied any role in the bombing, and his suspected associates, eight of whom have been arrested.
"If they did not bomb, I would not be in this trouble," Mr. Maina said.
His trouble is worse than most: he was on the No. 126 bus, stalled in traffic in front of the embassy, when the explosion went off. He spent four days in a coma, then four months in the hospital.
He lost his right eye and cannot see well in his left. He can barely walk, because his right leg was broken so badly. When his wife saw that he could not provide anymore, he said, she left with their two children.
"I was the king of -- " he started to say, then stopped. "I'm the husband. And now I got that trouble. That is why she went."
He said his life was now divided between the doctor and sitting alone in his little room with walls and roof made of tin in the town of Kiserian, about an hour southwest of Nairobi.
A former clothes hawker, he has no clear vision of the future, except that he would like buy a little plot of land, build a few apartments and start selling clothes again. But he does not have the money.
"The situation is very bad," he said. "When I think about my life before, I don't feel good."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Red Cross in Nairobi, Douglas Sidialo, at left, was among those waiting for food aid. A former car salesman, he was blinded by glass and debris from the explosion at the United States Embassy a year ago. Francis Gitu Maina, above, lost an eye and suffered a leg injury that left him barely able to walk. A year later, Kenyans are still coming to terms with the devastation. Many say the bombing gave them a greater sense of unity, but on some level the unity was short-lived. (Photographs by Ian Fisher/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EMBASSY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EMBASSY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI (KENYA); KENYA; KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KENYA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORISM (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%); BLOOD DONATIONS (66%); PSYCHIATRY (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN DOUGLAS SIDIALO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



147 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Indexes Fall as Jobs Report Fans Fears of Rate Increase

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks resumed their slide yesterday, as a strong report on employment solidified Wall Street's belief that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates later this month.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 79.79 points, to 10,714.03, erasing more than half its 119-point gain on Thursday. 
 The blue-chip index ended a choppy week 58.08 points higher, a gain of half a percent. For the year, the Dow average is up 16.69 percent.
Broader stock indicators like the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index fell modestly yesterday, capping a week of steep losses. The S.& P. index was down 13.42 points, to 1,300.29, and is up 5.78 percent so far in 1999. The Nasdaq composite index declined 17.86 points, to 2,547.97, and is up 16.2 percent so far this year.
Stocks tumbled after the Labor Department reported that employers added a larger-than-expected 310,000 jobs to payrolls in July and that average hourly earnings, an important gauge of inflation pressures, rose 3.8 percent from a year ago.
Investors have grown increasingly worried that tight labor markets will force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates as a pre-emptive strike against inflation. Higher interest rates cut into corporate profits by raising the cost of borrowing.
"If the Fed needed fuel to consider raising rates, they have it now with these new numbers," said Alan Ackerman, senior vice president at Fahnestock & Company. "The strong jobs report tilted the optimists upside down."
The Labor Department also reported the unemployment rate remained at 4.3 percent last month, near a three-decade low.
"That pace of job growth is unacceptable to the Fed," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company.
Interest rate concerns hurt financial services stocks as J. P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter fell. Those businesses would see lending volume shrink if higher interest rates made it more expensive to borrow money.
"The stock market is trying really hard to fight reality right now -- interest rates will probably be rising," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Company in Kansas City, Mo. "But some sectors can't escape the selling pressure."
While the broad market was down, bargain hunters were buying certain technology issues, most notably semiconductor stocks. Strong forecasts for personal computer sales have supported the stocks of companies that make computer parts.
Internet companies, which rallied sharply Thursday, struggled once again. Yahoo slipped back from early gains despite a ratings upgrade from Goldman, Sachs. It closed at 126 15/16, down 1 7/16. America Online also struggled to hold on to a gain and closed up 13/16, at 84 3/4.
Ebay, the on-line auction site, plunged as its system shut down. It slumped 9 5/8, to 83 1/4.
While most market indexes ended the week fairly flat amid low volume, trading was volatile all week.
"It's tough to call all the turns in this market," Mr. Ackerman said. "It is like the Indianapolis 500. Everything keeps changing lap after lap."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (53%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (51%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (66%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); AOL INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (63%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



148 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Pastor of Harlem Church Nominated to Head SUNY at Old Westbury

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
The Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d has been formally nominated to be president of the Old Westbury campus of the State University of New York, a job he said he would welcome. He would retain his role as pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, one of New York City's most influential religious institutions.
Old Westbury's College Council, an advisory board, issued its recommendation of Mr. Butts on Wednesday to the Chancellor of SUNY, John W. Ryan. A spokesman for Mr. Ryan said yesterday that he would probably approve it and send it to the board of trustees for ratification. 
 The board is aiming to vote on Aug. 16 or soon afterward, in time for Mr. Butts to assume the post at the Long Island campus by the start of the fall semester on Aug. 31, said Jon Sorensen, vice chancellor for university and government relations. The recommendation, which came just eight days after the search committee held its first meeting, has stirred controversy on campus. The Faculty Senate has charged that the search was rushed and politically tinged, and has sent a letter of protest to Gov. George E. Pataki.
But Mr. Butts, who has never held an academic position, is thought to enjoy wide support among the 16-member board of trustees, 15 of whom were appointed by Mr. Pataki. Mr. Sorensen said that a well-known figure like Mr. Butts could help recruit students and dollars to a campus that has struggled with declining enrollment and other maladies.
Mr. Butts, once known for fiery criticism of mainstream politicians, has forged ties with Mr. Pataki in recent years. The Governor appointed him an unpaid member of the board of the Empire State Development Corporation, a state-financed economic development agency. In a move that angered other black leaders, Mr. Butts endorsed Mr. Pataki's bid for re-election last year.
Mr. Butts has contemplated entering politics, possibly as a candidate for Congress or the mayoralty. He said yesterday that he would set aside those aspirations if offered the presidency of Old Westbury.
"I feel good about assuming the position," said Mr. Butts, adding that he would not leave the stewardship of the Harlem church, which has long served as a source of social and political action.
"I would remain as pastor," Mr. Butts said. "It is the soil in which I am rooted."
He said the church had a long tradition of ministers' splitting their time with other work, including Adam Clayton Powell Jr. and his predecessor, Samuel Proctor, who held professorships for much of the time he served as pastor.
Mr. Butts declined to say how he would juggle his duties and split his time between Harlem and Old Westbury, which is 22 miles from Manhattan in Nassau County. Mr. Sorensen said that the university would work out housing arrangements for Mr. Butts but that plans were not yet firm. The position pays $112,411 to $141,910 a year, but no salary has yet been negotiated.
Mr. Butts, who is 49, said he hungered for the challenge of leading the campus, which has 3,700 students, roughly half of them members of minority groups.
"I feel very comfortable about this," said Mr. Butts, who has been with the church since 1972 and pastor since 1989. He attended Morehouse College in Atlanta and the Union Theological Seminary in New York, and has a doctorate in church and public policy from Drew University in Madison, N.J. "College presidents and ministers have enjoyed unique roles of leadership, and I hope to continue that in some form or fashion," he said.
Nevertheless, leaders of the Faculty Senate, an advisory panel that sets some school policies, have questioned the haste with which Mr. Butts was recommended and the appearance of political overtones.
The president of the Senate, Gretchen Johnson, who is a professor in the teacher education program, sent a letter to Mr. Pataki yesterday complaining that Old Westbury had not followed SUNY's guidelines for recruiting presidents. Those guidelines call for, among other things, a national search and the development of a list of 20 candidates. The letter also raised questions about the timing of Mr. Butts's candidacy, coming just as the Legislature passed a law allowing nearly 200 acres of the 600-acre campus to be transferred to the university's foundation for leasing to private sources.
"A wide variety of sources have linked you, and Republican political patronage, to every major player in these events," Dr. Johnson wrote to the Governor.
Mr. Butts's candidacy was advanced in part by a SUNY trustee, Randy Daniels, who serves on the board of the Empire State Development Corporation with Mr. Butts, something Dr. Johnson and others in the Senate take as a clear indication of political favoritism.
Dr. Johnson also questioned whether Mr. Butts could be "an independent and vigilant steward" of the college's interests as it examines the development of the property to be leased by the Old Westbury Foundation, which is seeking to raise millions of dollars by leasing space for such things as a baseball stadium for the college team, a high-tech office park, a criminal justice institute and other uses.
T. R. Ahlstrom, the executive director of the foundation, said that anything built would have "a very clear educational nexus," and Mr. Butts promised a careful review of any plans.
William R. Howell, the chairman of the campus College Council, said that any suggestion of political motivations behind Mr. Butts's nomination was "absurd on the face of it."
Mr. Pataki stood behind Mr. Butts as well.
"Calvin Butts is an innovative leader who would be a positive force for the students at Old Westbury," said Charles Deister, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki. "It is unfortunate that there are always defenders of the status quo who will complain about change."
Mr. Sorensen, the vice chancellor, said that the committee was free to conduct the search as it pleased, and pointed out that the guidelines were just that, and should not be construed as regulation or law. He said that the timing of Mr. Butts's candidacy and the approval of the legislation was a coincidence and that he believed that faculty members were upset that the College Council had not recommended the interim president, W. Hubert Keen.
Old Westbury has been without a full-time president since June 1998, when L. Eudora Pettigrew, who had drawn no-confidence votes from the faculty, stepped down.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Calvin O. Butts leads the Abyssinian Baptist Church. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (OLD WESTBURY); ABYSSINIAN BAPTIST CHURCH (NYC) EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (78%); FACULTY SENATE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (OLD WESTBURY); ABYSSINIAN BAPTIST CHURCH (NYC) STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (78%); FACULTY SENATE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BAPTIST CHURCHES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES RELIGION (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 

PERSON: BUTTS, CALVIN O 3D (REV); ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



149 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Volvo to Buy Another Swedish Truck Maker for $7.4 Billion

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
In a $7.4 billion deal that will create the world's second-largest maker of trucks and buses, Volvo A.B. of Sweden is buying one of its archrivals, the Swedish truck maker Scania.
The agreement, announced yesterday in Sweden, comes just 15 months after the merger of Chrysler and Daimler created the world's largest truck and bus maker. 
 Under the terms of the deal, Volvo will buy the 49 percent of Scania's shares now owned by Investor A.B., the holding company that is the main investment vehicle for Sweden's wealthy Wallenberg family.
Volvo will pay Investor 315 Swedish kronor a share, or about $38.55, in cash for 60 percent of the shares; the rest of the payment will be either in cash or in a swap of six shares of new Volvo stock for five Scania shares. Volvo also said that it will offer a similar deal for all remaining outstanding shares of Scania.
The deal did not surprise analysts, who had been expecting Volvo to announce an acquisition ever since it sold its car business to the Ford Motor Company earlier this year. "No one thought they were getting out of passenger cars so they could sit around idly and reap 5 percent on their cash," said James N. Kelleher, an analyst with Argus Research.
Rumors have emerged throughout the year that Volvo was looking at Deere, Case, Navistar, Cummins Engines and other players in the truck market. "This takes a little heat off other companies that thought they were targets," said Robert S. Murley, an investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Actually, there were early signs that Volvo had its sights set on Scania. Volvo had been accumulating Scania shares throughout 1999, and already owned 13 percent of its rival when it began negotiating with Investor to buy its stake.
Still, Volvo's and Scania's shared nationality makes the deal a bit unusual in the rapidly consolidating truck industry. It has been far more common for companies in different countries to set up alliances, if not full mergers, in order to take advantage of each other's markets.
General Motors, for example, has a 49 percent stake in Isuzu of Japan. The partnership gives G.M.'s truck division an edge in Asian markets, while the link to G.M. helps Isuzu in the United States and Europe.
Earlier this year, there was speculation that Fiat of Italy would try to buy Investor's share of Scania.
For most of these companies, more is at stake than added truck revenue. Many automotive companies view sales of commercial trucks as a way to establish their brands in emerging economies.
The Scania-Volvo deal will create a truck manufacturer that had combined sales of $15.8 billion last year, and a work force of about 76,000. Scania will remain a separate unit in Volvo, with its own brands and distribution networks, but the sister divisions are expected to combine purchasing power, eliminate duplicate overhead and otherwise cut costs.
Scania's American depository receipts rose $7.1875 or 24 percent, to $37.50. Volvo A.D.R.'s fell $2.50, or 8.3 percent, to $27.50. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (96%); VOLV.A (STO) (96%); INVE.B (STO) (91%); INVE.A (STO) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); SCV.B (STO) (90%); SCV.A (STO) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

COMPANY: SCANIA AB; VOLVO AB; INVESTOR AB AB VOLVO (96%); INVESTOR AB (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); SCANIA AB (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); ISUZU OF JAPAN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCANIA AB; VOLVO AB; INVESTOR AB ISUZU OF JAPAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MERGERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



150 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: With Fiscal Battle Plans Drawn, Lawmakers Begin Recess

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
With passage of a $792 billion tax cut secured, Congress left for its August recess early today and set the stage for a high-stakes autumn confrontation with President Clinton over the nation's fiscal priorities in the new era of projected Federal surpluses.
The battle over how to divide the expected $3 trillion windfall among tax cuts, Federal programs and debt reduction through the next decade is the most far reaching of many ideologically charged policy disputes expected to be joined in the fall. Others include debates over gun control, regulation of managed care and an overhaul of the campaign finance laws. 
 On one of those issues, managed health care, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert tried to divide a group of Republican dissidents today by pledging to bring to the House floor a bill that will include some expansion of the right of health plan members to sue their plans. His decision was the first time that Republican leaders have put forward such a provision, and it created a rival bill to one agreed to Thursday by Republican rebels and House Democrats.
So far this year, with the razor-thin margin in the House heightening the partisan competition, the two parties in Congress have put less focus on legislating than on sharpening their differences for the 2000 campaign. And Republicans believe their tax cut will help shape their identity next year.
It is far from clear whether the President and Congress will be able to reach some grand compromise on tax cuts, spending, Medicare and perhaps health care legislation after Mr. Clinton makes good on his promise to veto the Republican tax cut measure.
This month both parties expect to wage a battle for public opinion. The Republicans have said they would hold town meetings across the nation to showcase different aspects of their tax cut, which, if adopted, would be the largest since 1981. It has elements intended to appeal to an array of constituency groups including social conservatives, women and business.
The Democrats plan to highlight their call for some of the surplus to be used to overhaul Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly.
Mr. Clinton sounded the Democratic rallying cry today, by again vowing to veto the Republicans' tax cut. "I am disappointed, though not surprised, that the majority party in Congress has chosen to pass its massive tax cut, one that plainly would damage our economic future," Mr. Clinton said at the White House before leaving for Arkansas.
"I want to insure the American people, because this tax cut will not save and strengthen Medicare, because it will not add a day to the Social Security trust fund, because it will not pay down the debt and pay it off for the first time in 150 years, this tax cut will not become law," the President said.
The Republicans, who see the tax cut as the crown jewel of their legislative program, predicted that their bill would resonate with the American people and that public opinion would force Mr. Clinton to embrace it.
Senator Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican who is majority leader, said that if Mr. Clinton vetoed the bill "it will be the strongest indication so far that he is entering the phase of being a lame duck, because it will say to the Congress, the American people, 'I don't care what you say or do, I'm going to veto this and I'm not going to work with you.' "
Mr. Clinton has proposed a far smaller tax cut of $250 billion, and prefers to use some of the surplus to expand Medicare and increase spending on such domestic programs.
But some Republicans believe that Mr. Clinton, with little more than a year left in his Presidency, will want to burnish his record. That yearning, they say, will lead him to strike a bargain with Congress, where Republicans will get large tax cuts in exchange for the new Medicare prescription drug program that he has proposed.
"He's got one more year," said Representative Joe Scarborough, Republican of Florida. "He's run his last campaign. He would like to have a good tax cut and some good reforms. I don't know how to say it without sounding cliched -- he's playing for history."
Democrats counter that Mr. Clinton considers the healthy economy his proudest accomplishment and that he will not strike a compromise that does not begin to pay down the Federal debt.
"They are misreading what is motivating the President," Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, said of the Republicans. "What motivates him is that he has achieved a very good economy and he has made some real strides on crime and education. And he doesn't want to make a deal that would compromise or jeopardize those accomplishments."
There is another factor this year that provides an incentive for a stalemate. During the days of deficits, an inability to act meant that the deficits grew. But this year if the parties cannot agree on a tax cut, the surpluses automatically go toward paying down the nation's $5.6 trillion accumulated debt. Both sides say it might not be so bad if they do not reach agreement and take their competing visions into the election.
"There's a sense that we've done something if we've done nothing," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader.
Beyond fiscal issues, the fate of other high-profile legislation is also unclear. Many of the topics on the fall agenda -- campaign finance overhaul, managed-care regulation and gun control -- are favorite issues of the Democrats. Republicans view these confrontations as ones they cannot win, and will try to dispense with them with minimal damage. They will hope to do as little as possible while Democrats will be leery of accepting weak compromises.
A signal of the intensity of the struggle came today when Mr. Hastert and other Republican leaders agreed just before 2 A.M. to allow a managed-care proposal, which is being assembled by two Republicans, Representatives Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and John Shadegg of Arizona, to move forward in the fall.
Their decision was prompted by an announcement by dissident Republicans on Thursday that they had reached agreement with House Democrats on comprehensive legislation. They predicted they would rally a majority of the House around their bill.
Dr. Coburn, a family physician, and Mr. Shadegg were still drafting their rival measure, which was expected to be similar to the bipartisan plan. But Dr. Coburn has said that he wants to keep the right to sue provisions more limited than in the bipartisan measure. He would require patients to prove that they were injured before they could sue.
The second bill created an even fiercer battle over 20 to 30 Republicans who could decide what kind of managed-care bill passes the House. But Democrats were expected to oppose this version because it would contain several tax credits meant to help the uninsured obtain coverage. That would likely include tax-free medical savings accounts, which Democrats oppose, saying such accounts would draw the healthiest and wealthiest people out of the insurance pool.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Trent Lott, center, Paul Coverdell and Kay Bailey Hutchison thought they were headed to a Capitol Hill news conference on tax legislation yesterday but, as aides pointed out, they were going the wrong way. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Still Much to Do in Congress"
SPENDING BILLS: By Oct. 1, Congress must pass 13 appropriation bills to keep the Government running. As of yesterday, 11 had been passed by the House and 9 by the Senate. Only two, to finance Congress's own operations and for military construction, are ready to be sent to the President. The chart lists all 13 bills and their current status. The bills are: Agriculture; Commerce, Justice and State; Defense; District of Columbia; Energy and Water; Foreign Operations; Interior; Labor, Health and Human Services and Education; Legislative Branch; Military Construction; Transportation; Treasury; Veterans Affairs and Housingand Urban Development
 
OTHER ISSUES
Health Care: Senate passed a bill regulating managed health care that offers different protections to different groups, depending on health insurance coverage. Many protections apply only to the 48 million Americans whose employers are self-insured. House has yet to take up a measure, and several competing plans are being drafted.
 
Campaign Finance Reform: Neither chamber has taken up a bill, but a debate is scheduled for September in the House and most likely October in the Senate.
Gun Control: Senate in May approved an array of new restrictions on firearms. The House technically passed no gun control when it considered the issue in June. A conference committee will try to reconcile that discrepancy beginning the second week of September.
 
Tax Cut: Both House and Senate passed a $792 billion tax cut on Thursday. After Congress returns from its recess in September, the bill goes to President Clinton, who has repeatedly said that he will veto it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (57%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); VETO (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); GUN CONTROL (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); AGING (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, DENNIS (SPEAKER); COBURN, TOM (REPR); SHADEGG, JOHN (REPR); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (91%); TRENT LOTT (58%); JOHN B SHADEGG (58%); TOM COBURN (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



151 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Banking Expert Nominated To Be Fed ViceChairman

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
President Clinton yesterday nominated Roger W. Ferguson Jr., a management and technology expert whose monetary views are not widely known in the investment community, to be vice chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Mr. Ferguson, who has served as a Fed governor for two years, was a banking industry consultant and partner at McKinsey & Company in New York before he joined the Fed. He is viewed as an expert in the operations of banks and financial institutions, an important specialty as the Year 2000 nears. Only the third black American appointed a Fed governor, he would be the first to serve as vice chairman. 
 While the appointment would raise Mr. Ferguson's profile considerably, the Fed's decision-making will still be dominated by its chairman, Alan Greenspan. The seven Fed governors form the core of the 12-member Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest-rate policy.
If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Ferguson, 47, would replace Alice Rivlin, who resigned last month to rejoin the Brookings Institution.
Mr. Ferguson, who was not widely known before his appointment two years ago, was brought to the attention of Clinton Administration by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, a classmate of Mr. Ferguson at Harvard University. Before McKinsey, Mr. Ferguson was an attorney at Davis Polk & Wardwell, a New York law firm. He received degrees in economics and law, both with honors, from Harvard, where he later received a Ph.D. in economics.
The nomination follows Mr. Clinton's selection Thursday of Carol Parry, a former senior executive at Chase Manhattan Bank and an expert in community reinvestment laws, to replace Susan Phillips, a Fed governor who resigned last year.
The Administration is a strong proponent of community reinvestment laws, but Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, chairman of the Banking Committee, has sought to restrict the laws. A spokeswoman for Mr. Gramm's committee said Friday that both "nominations came in too late for Senator Gramm to have a chance to look at the papers, so he won't have a comment until after" Congress resumes in September.
Asked about Mr. Ferguson by reporters, Mr. Clinton responded: "He is superbly qualified. He has served well. And I am very excited about the prospect of his service. I'm glad he's willing to do it."
Mr. Greenspan said in a statement that Mr. Ferguson is "a person highly respected by his colleagues," and "an outstanding public servant, with broad experience and sound judgment."
Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist at Schroder & Company and a former Reagan Administration budget official, said Mr. Ferguson's monetary policy views are little known in the investment community. "There may be a discovery process here," Mr. Kudlow said. "Up till now, he's compiled a voting record in accordance with Greenspan, and I think around the Fed he is viewed more as a management consultant and administrative guy."
But Mr. Kudlow added that the appointments of Mr. Ferguson and Ms. Parry "may create the potential for two inflation doves who might be at loggerheads with the chairman's view or certain hawkish views" among other board members.
Ms. Rivlin advocated the view that the economy is better able now to grow without inflation than in past years, and she was more sympathetic than other governors to the notion that growth and lower unemployment was an acceptable trade-off for the risk of a slight increase in prices.
At his confirmation hearing two years ago, Mr. Ferguson emphasized that he believed the Fed's most important mission was price stability. The Fed's legislative mandate also calls for it to promote maximum employment, but under Mr. Greenspan, it has stressed inflation control. Mr. Ferguson also said he was concerned with issues like income inequality and job creation.
The other African-Americans to serve on the Federal Reserve were Andrew Brimmer, who was nominated by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966, and Emmett Rice, who was nominated by President Jimmy Carter in 1979.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger W. Ferguson Jr.'s views on monetary policy are little known in the investment community. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (84%); SCHRODER & CO INC (61%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; FERGUSON, ROGER W JR; RIVLIN, ALICE M ROGER W FERGUSON JR (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); PHIL GRAMM (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (77%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



152 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Violence Among Israelis Sets Off National Wave of Soul-Searching

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 6

 BODY:
His hair a shellacked, platinum blond, his face framed by a pair of hoop earrings, Miki Abutbul, 16, an Israeli from a working-class suburb, was sprawled with friends on plastic chairs in a crowded pedestrian walkway in central Jerusalem just after midnight this morning, talking about violence in Israel.
"Even my 10-year-old brother carries a knife," Miki was saying when shouts of a nearby fight suddenly pierced the cool air and sent him and the rest of the crowd scurrying in different directions. 
 Within minutes, army troops and policemen descended on Zion Square, broke up the trouble and arrested two Israeli youths.
"For every small thing someone seems to pull a knife these days," offered Miki's friend, Shai Hugi, 16.
Israel has always had a rough edge, always been a society where aggression and rudeness were accepted as byproducts of life under siege. But there has been an abrupt shift in this view in recent months.
After several exceptionally brutal crimes -- two men killed their wives and children and set their bodies on fire -- and new studies detailing the level of brutality in the schools, there has emerged an intense focus on violence among Israelis that has temporarily pushed aside the historic focus on conflict with the Arabs.
"We have to deal with this exactly as we have dealt with terrorism," said Zeev Friedman, director of health, welfare and social services for the city of Tel Aviv, "because this is nothing less than an internal form of terrorism."
While there are no firm data showing a rise in violence, what has changed, many experts suspect, is Israel's sense of itself, its attitude toward such behavior.
Since the fear of war is lower than it has ever been and Israel's links to the West, especially the United States, are closer than ever -- a result of cable television, computers, commerce and increased travel -- Israelis are less willing to excuse shortcomings in their society as byproducts of the need to survive.
Others say the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 1995 was a watershed, when suddenly it seemed that life had become cheap in Israel.
Today's issue of the dominant daily newspaper, Yediot Ahronot, illustrates how widespread that view is. Although Israeli-Palestinian relations are tense over land-for-security arrangements, and the new Government of Prime Minister Ehud Barak seems to be getting ready to negotiate the return of the strategic Golan Heights to Syria, neither issue made the front page.
The main article concerned the latest attack of a feared figure known as the Tel Aviv Rapist. A second article told of a paroled convict who visited his girlfriend and threw her baby daughter out a window. The dealings with the Arabs were relegated to inside pages.
Since the focus on internal violent behavior is so recent, there are virtually no data to confirm the widely held view that violence in Israel, a nation of six million, is on the increase or that the increase is due partly to the arrival of so many people from the former Soviet Union in the last decade.
Data for many forms of violence have been collected only for the last five years and show mixed trends. Spousal and school violence, two areas of particular focus in the press, have shown no increase in that time. The number of homicides declined from 79 in the first half of 1998 to 61 in the first half of 1999.
"We are less involved today with security problems," noted Zemira Mevarech, chief scientist at the Education Ministry, who recently called for a comprehensive program, including rewards for teachers and staff, aimed at reducing school violence. "As concerns over security go down, the focus on quality of life goes up."
American influence is significant. When two Colorado students went on a shooting spree in their high school in April, killing 12 fellow students and a teacher, the story was big news for days here. Many commentators suggested that such a massacre could happen here, since a recent study showed that 7 percent of high school students carried weapons.
Moreover, the latest hero in the Israeli press is Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, whose name is invoked frequently by those who think that policing of minor and major crimes in Israel has been lax.
Last month, an Israeli artist named Gil Mitchell was knifed to death after asking two men not to scrape his car with theirs. That prompted Haim Yavin, the state television's long-serving news anchor, to offer a rare Op-Ed article in the newspaper Haaretz and call on Israel's police to take a lesson from New York's.
"A metropolis of crime, drugs and dirt has become one of the most flourishing cities in the world," Mr. Yavin wrote of New York. "Mayor Giuliani's task has been to teach millions of New Yorkers to respect the rule of law."
Israelis should take a lesson, he added: "Today, Israel is more than a little similar to the New York of 20 years ago. Instead of the rule of law, we have the rule of the knife and the revolver."
The idea that Israel is following an American path or should learn from the United States is in marked contrast to how this country saw itself two or three decades ago. Then, when Americans faced decaying cities, drug addiction and violent youth, most Israelis happily noted that their country was different.
American problems were seen as a result of American societal conditions, including the lack of mutual concern and cohesion that characterized Israel in its early decades.
Today, American-style problems and American-style solutions are seen as almost inevitable, since this country has come to resemble the United States more than ever. The economy, for example, once one of the world's most egalitarian, is now characterized by a huge gap between richest and poorest.
The Police Ministry is trying to learn how police officers in the United States deal with domestic violence. It is widely suspected that since the Israeli police tended in the past to focus on external, meaning Arab, threats, they had little training and little interest in domestic crimes.
A new program trains detectives in such work, and there will soon be a doubling of the 170 detectives assigned to such tasks.
The Education Ministry is trying to devise an American-style curriculum that teaches pupils sensitivity toward one another and reduces violent confrontations. Tel Aviv is seeking help from Los Angeles on how to fight domestic abuse.
But more Israeli-style approaches are also being contemplated.
"Just like every Israeli has been trained over the years to report a suspicious package in the street in case it is a terrorist bomb, today Israelis need to learn to detect signs of domestic violence around them so that lives can be saved," suggested Mr. Friedman, the Tel Aviv director of social services.
Yossi Harel of Bar-Ilan University, outside Tel Aviv, spent 11 years at the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, where he was in charge of the youth survey system and helped plan surveys for some 30 countries on youth health and violence.
The most recent study, for 1998, shows Israel eighth out of 28 countries on the question of what percentage of youths have been bullied at school. For Israel it was 50 percent. That was behind the United States, in 18th place with 34 percent.
When Professor Harel published the results of the first such study in 1995 with similar results for Israel, he said, no one took it seriously. But when he published the 1998 results this year -- including the finding that more than half of the students in grades 6 through 10 were involved either as perpetrators or victims of violence -- the ground was fertile and his study became major news.
"It took a long time to build awareness that we really have a problem on our hands in terms of the banality of violence as a part of daily life for Israeli youth," Professor Harel said. "Kids here use verbal and physical violence to cope. My interpretation is that as a society and system we have failed to provide the youth of this country with alternative resources for coping with frustration and anger."
He said violent attitudes were endemic throughout society -- on the roads, in Parliament, in public places, on television talk shows -- and the youth were drinking it all in.
The problem is also difficult in the home. Malka Soffer, head of the crime victims section in Israel's national police, said that until the early 1990's, spousal and child abuse were treated by the police as occasions to mediate between offender and victim rather than act as law enforcement agents.
Today there are special instructions, and domestic abuse is considered a crime of great urgency, she said. "Today we think that if a violent crime is committed within the family, it is more severe than if it is committed among strangers, because of the risk of repetition," she said.
Feminists have been raising concerns over spousal abuse here for several years. But many Israelis had trouble believing that Jewish husbands were really guilty of such activity. Accepting that such problems exist in Israel has been part of the country's maturation, some say.
"There was this big myth that Jewish husbands wouldn't do this sort of thing," said Ronit Lev-Ari, director of the department of family violence prevention for Naamat, a women's group. "But we are like everyone else. It may be very sad for some, but Israel is normal.
"Like elsewhere, most Israeli husbands who beat their wives were themselves beaten as children and, like other societies, we need to learn to stop them and to treat them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Youths crowding a sidewalk in Jerusalem. More than before, some say, violence has broken out in such circumstances, as happened yesterday. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS TERRORISM (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); CHILDREN (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); ARMIES (71%); PAROLE (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ASSASSINATION (63%); ARMED FORCES (55%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN EHUD BARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



153 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Political Notes;
On Spending, Pataki Has His Own Math

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 6

 BODY:
What will the inflation rate be for the next year? For Gov. George E. Pataki, the question is not academic.
He voiced two goals for this year's state budget: saving the surplus and increasing spending no faster than inflation. He succeeded on the first count. On the second, well . . . 
 The New York Times, among others, reported that the budget approved this week raised spending faster than inflation. No big deal -- Mr. Pataki's stance was a bargaining position, and he still gets credit for banking the surplus and increasing spending only modestly.
But his aides have worked hard to persuade reporters that the budget really, truly grew less than inflation, and by doing so they have drawn more attention to the issue. For a Governor looking for national prominence in the Republican Party, this apparently matters.
For the record, the Consumer Price Index rose 2 percent in the last year. The new budget, by the administration's own estimate, raises spending 3.8 percent. But Joseph Conway, spokesman for the Governor's Division of Budget, insists that what matters is not the whole budget, but the half called the General Fund, which is slated to grow 2.4 percent.
Yet that figure was arrived at by accounting legerdemain that moved items into other funds. And even that number is above most economists' inflation predictions.
So, is it below inflation? Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the Democratic chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, replied simply, "Oh, please."
 
A Rush to Cash Checks
State legislators don't often stand in line -- they have people who do that for them -- nor are they known for getting an early start on the day.
But at 8:30 Wednesday morning, just seven hours after the Assembly had adjourned the previous night, several lawmakers were queued up when an office near the Capitol opened to dispense the first paychecks they had received in four months. Under a new state law, as long as the budget was late, legislators were not paid. The Assembly passed the last budget bill at 1:33 A.M. Wednesday, 126 days late.
Senator Dale M. Volker, a Republican from the Buffalo area, said that when he left home for Albany this week, "My wife said, 'Don't call me back until you pass a budget and get paid.' " His marital communications are no doubt better now, but like many of his colleagues, he had to borrow money to get by.
Legislators grumbled bitterly -- about their debts, about putting off needed purchases or home repairs -- but mostly off the record, for fear it would sound like whining. One New York City Democrat said, "You try going four months without pay and see if you don't whine."
The new law was supposed to speed the state's creaky budget process. Not even close. "I think all it did was aggravate people," Mr. Volker said.
 
Motive Behind the Money
For four years, the Governor has frozen money for AIDS programs. Last year, the Legislature added a few million dollars, but Mr. Pataki vetoed the addition.
But groups that work on AIDS prevention and assist people with the disease were caught off guard this week, when Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver secured a $6 million increase for the programs. It was more of a surprise that Mr. Silver took the money from the pool used for lawmakers' pork-barrel projects.
Some advocates were elated, calling it an act of principle by the Speaker. But others surmised that Mr. Silver was making amends for the Assembly's passage last year of a law, opposed by AIDS groups, requiring that the names of all people who test positive for the virus that causes AIDS be reported to the state.
"Like anything else that happens here, it's not entirely without political content," said Michael Kink, lobbyist for Housing Works, a group that finds housing for people with AIDS. "But there's a public health benefit, too, so we don't care why it happened."
 
Echoes of a Special Election
 For the second time this year, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani may be wishing there never was a special election in May to fill a State Senate seat from Rockland County.
The Senate's Republican leaders, by their own admission, pulled out all stops to hang on to the seat, promising projects for the district, and hinting at legislation for interest groups.
The New York City correction officers' union endorsed the Republican, Thomas P. Morahan, who won. On Thursday, the Senate passed a bill allowing those correction officers to draw money from the city's pension fund and pocket it. Democrats called it the Senate Republicans' payback for the support of Mr. Morahan.
The bill was slipped onto the Senate calendar on the last day of the 1999 session, and many Senators had not seen it until an hour before the vote. Now, the bill, which had already passed the Assembly, goes to the Governor, who has not said whether he will sign or veto it.
Mr. Giuliani has complained bitterly about the bill, which he says will cost the pension fund and the city more than $100 million a year. (The union says $6 million.) Aides to the Mayor thought the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, who has been promoting Mr. Giuliani's undeclared candidacy for the United States Senate, would not allow a vote on the bill.
Four months ago, state lawmakers, their eyes squarely on the Rockland race, abolished the city's tax on suburban commuters, over Mr. Giuliani's strenuous objections. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); AIDS & HIV (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



154 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-6
 
Drug-Trafficking Charges For Wife of U.S. Colonel
The wife of a U.S. Army colonel involved in counternarcotics operations in Colombia is facing Federal charges for shipping a total of 15.8 pounds of pure cocaine to the United States earlier this year. Laurie Anne Hiett, the wife of Col. James Hiett, has denied any illegal activity. A1
 
Nuclear Spy Charges Delayed
The Energy Department has sought a delay in the Government's decision on whether to seek an indictment against a former Los Alamos scientist in connection with the mishandling of nuclear secrets, officials said. More time is needed to decide whether to release highly classified information for use as evidence. A4 

New View on India Killings
The slaying of an Australian missionary and his two young sons by a frenzied mob in January was instigated by an individual and not by any Hindu right-wing group associated with the governing Bharatiya Janata Party, according to a summary of a judicial inquiry issued by the Indian Government. A4
 
Target for Middle East Accord
Israeli negotiators told their Palestinian counterparts that they hope to agree on the broad outlines of a permanent peace accord by February, a senior aide to Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat said. The Palestinian Cabinet meanwhile rejected Prime Minister Ehud Barak's plan for beginning final status talks, insisting that the Wye agreement be carried out first. A6
 
New Politics in Russia
President Boris N. Yeltsin's failure to bring the newly minted center-left party to heel this week exposed his weakening position as his term enters its final year and left the Kremlin without a party or even a viable candidate, as Russia begins its march into the post-Yeltsin era. A3
 
I.R.A. Denies Charges
The Irish Republican Army said it was not responsible for two incidents that have led Protestant officials in Ulster to call for the expulsion of Sinn Fein, the I.R.A. political wing, from the Northern Ireland Assembly. The issues involved a gun-running operation and the killing of a Catholic man in Belfast. A5
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A7-10, 14
 
$23 Million Jury Award In Fen-Phen Case
A jury awarded $23.36 million to a woman in East Texas who said she suffered heart damage after taking the diet pills popularly known as fen-phen to lose weight. The verdict is the first among thousands of cases pending across the country against makers of the pills. A7
 
Crack in G.O.P. Position
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert tried to divide a group of Republican dissidents by pledging to bring to the House floor a bill that will include some expansion of the right of health plan members to sue their plans. The move came as Congress left for its August recess. A8
 
Report Favors Waste Site
A preliminary report on a nuclear waste storage project in Nevada concludes that very little radiation would leak from the site, Yucca Mountain, and that a repository there would be as safe as and much cheaper than securing the waste where it now collects. A8
 
Astronauts Report Illnesses
Several astronauts on the last mission to the new International Space Station suffered nausea, headaches and other symptoms that have NASA scrambling for solutions to a suspected air-quality problem before another crew visits the outpost. A9
 
Reactor Moves Through City
The radioactive reactor of the largest American nuclear power plant ever to be shut down was loaded onto a barge for a 270-mile river journey through metropolitan Portland. The move worries environmentalists. A10
 
Yosemite Suspect Enters Plea
A motel handyman pleaded not guilty to the murder of a naturalist at Yosemite National Park. The suspect, Cary Stayner, has told F.B.I. investigators that he killed the naturalist and three women who were sightseers at the park. A9
 
Gay Man's Killer Sentenced
The man who killed a homosexual because of what he called an unwanted advance was sentenced to life in prison without parole. Steven Mullins, 25, pleaded guilty in the killing. His accomplice was convicted of capital murder on Thursday and sentenced to life without parole. A14
 
Religion Journal A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Plan Widely Expands Sampling of Criminals' DNA
The state will embark on one of the nation's most aggressive programs of collecting DNA samples from convicted felons and will build a computer database that the police can use to solve crimes. The crimes that will put people into the database include murder, manslaughter, assault, sex crimes, drug dealing, robbery, burglary, grand larceny, and the most serious categories of drug possession, attempted murder, arson, kidnapping and attempted burglary. A1
 
Pataki Endorses Giuliani
Governor Pataki put aside his antipathy toward Mayor Giuliani, endorsed him for United States Senate and urged the other major contender to abandon the race. A1
 
Mosquitoes Few This Summer
The hot, dry summer that is plaguing farmers throughout the Eastern Seaboard and Midwest has made for a nearly mosquito-free season. There have been scattered swarms of the salt-water mosquitoes that breed in coastal marshes whenever high tide comes. But the far more common species that blanket inland areas each year are largely missing. A1
 
Assisted Suicide Charges
A 75-year-old man was charged with helping his ailing 70-year-old wife commit suicide by fixing a rope to a ceiling beam in their Queens apartment and tying it into the noose she used to hang herself on Thursday. B1
 
Building Facade Collapses
An elderly woman was killed and her husband critically injured last night when the facade of a building gave way and covered them with debris as they strolled along the main shopping street of Maplewood, N.J. B3
 
OBITUARIES C16
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
3,000th Hit for Gwynn
Tony Gwynn of the San Diego Padres took his long expected place among the game's great hitters when he stroked the 3,000th hit of his career at Olympic Stadium in Montreal. He was the 22d player to reach the 3,000 plateau. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-15
 
A Surge in Job Creation
Employers hired new workers at a surprisingly robust pace last month and had to pay substantially more to find them, the Government reported. The unemployment rate in July remained steady at 4.3 percent, the Labor Department said. The report underscored the mounting pressures in the labor market and substantially increased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates at its meeting on Aug. 24. A1
 
Hearst to Buy Chronicle
Hearst announced that it had agreed to buy the San Francisco Chronicle, a morning newspaper with a circulation of about 475,000 readers. The move may prepare the way for a merger with Hearst's own San Francisco Examiner, an afternoon paper whose circulation is just over 114,000, and result in yet another one-newspaper city. C1
 
German-British Phone Deal
Deutsche Telekom agreed to buy the British cellular telephone company One 2 One in a deal worth $11.1 billion. The deal is the German phone giant's first big foray abroad since its ill-fated attempt to buy Telecom Italia collapsed three months ago and marks a broader move by the former state-run German monopoly to become a a pan-European telecommunications brand. C1
 
Stocks Close Lower
Stocks slid on fears that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates later this month. The Dow was down 79.79 points, to 10,714.03, the S.& P 500 was down 13.42 points, to 1,300.29, and the Nasdaq declined 17.86 points, to 2,547.97. C4
 
Nominee for Fed Vice Chairman
President Clinton nominated Roger W. Ferguson Jr., a management and technology expert whose monetary views are not widely known among some in the investment community, to be vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Ferguson has served as a Fed governor for two years. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-18
 
EDITORIAL A12-13
 
Editorials: The coming budget blowup; truce among New York Republicans; a test for Korea; caring for the caregivers.
 
Bridge B15
 
TV Listings B18
 
Crossword B16
 
Weather B6
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (89%); POLITICS (87%); DRUG INTERDICTION (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); COCAINE (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); DAMAGES (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); ARMIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ESPIONAGE (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); VERDICTS (65%); DIETING (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



155 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Vows To Veto Bill Regulating Food Markets

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
The City Council and the Giuliani administration are heading for a showdown over proposed legislation that the Council says would protect the rights of employees at New York's wholesale food and produce markets.
Administration officials said yesterday that the legislation would only make it harder to keep the markets free of organized crime. 
 The bill, which will be the subject of a public hearing on Tuesday held by the Council's Economic Development Committee, seeks to amend a 1997 law that regulates public markets, including the Hunts Point Produce Market in the Bronx and the Gansevoort Meat Market in Manhattan. A separate law governing the Fulton Fish Market in Manhattan might also be amended.
Among the changes proposed by the Council is one that would guarantee the rights of employees and their unions to picket directly in front of a business involved in a labor dispute. Another provision would limit the liability of employees for legal violations related to their employers' equipment, shifting the responsibility for such violations to employers.
Bruce R. Bender, chief of staff to the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said employees in the markets were often subject to large fines for violations like driving an unregistered forklift; the Council believes those fines should be the employer's responsibility. And he said guaranteeing the right to picket was a matter of constitutional law.
"This is America," he said. "You should be allowed to protest." Pickets are now restricted to public streets outside the markets.
The bill would also allow labor unions, wholesale trade associations and other market businesses to register with the city's Department of Business Services once every five years, rather than once every two years as currently required. And it would give businesses and their officers 30 days to report some specified occurrences to the city, as opposed to the current requirement of immediate reporting.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who made his name crusading against the mob as a United States Attorney, considers rooting out organized crime from the city's public markets and the various laws intended to keep those markets free of mob influence to be high among his achievements. His aides said yesterday that he would veto the legislation if the Council passed it.
"This bill is not about employees' rights," Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota said. "This bill is about diminishing the power of the administration in ridding the public markets of organized crime."
He added that the bill as it was written did not have the support of the administration and would be subject to a veto. He said the bill would "coddle the interests of organized crime."
Mr. Bender said the Council had been negotiating with the administration in hope of reaching a compromise and that several recommendations from the Mayor's office had been incorporated into the bill that would be discussed at the public hearing. He called the proposals fair and said the Council would not back down.
"If we can't compromise, we'll go toe to toe," he said.
The Democratic majority in the Council, if united, could override any veto by Mr. Giuliani, who is a Republican. But forcing such a battle could prove politically risky for the Council -- particularly for Mr. Vallone, who is contemplating a run for mayor in 2001 -- given Mr. Giuliani's reputation as a crusading crime fighter. And Mr. Giuliani is likely to go to great lengths to twist legislators' arms.
The strong opposition by the administration came as something of a surprise to Council officials, who this week had thought a compromise might be at hand. Of five proposed changes to the law, the officials said, there were agreements on three, and the Mayor's office had proposed two additional changes that the Council accepted. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HUNTS POINT PRODUCE MARKET (BRONX); GANSEVOORT MEAT MARKET (MANHATTAN) CITY COUNCIL (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUNTS POINT PRODUCE MARKET (BRONX); GANSEVOORT MEAT MARKET (MANHATTAN) CITY COUNCIL (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MEAT STORES (70%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HERSZENHORN, DAVID M RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



156 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and Pay Grow, Stoking Inflation Fear

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
Employers hired new workers at a surprisingly robust pace last month and had to pay substantially more to find them, the Government reported today.
While good news in most respects, the report underscored the mounting pressures in the labor market and significantly increased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates at its next meeting, on Aug. 24, as a hedge against an upward spiral in wages and prices. 
 The unemployment rate in July remained steady at 4.3 percent, the Labor Department said. Employers added an estimated 310,000 nonfarm jobs in the month, 50 percent more than analysts had anticipated, suggesting that economic growth rebounded early in the summer after tailing off in the spring.
Average hourly earnings in July rose by one-half of 1 percent, to $13.29 from $13.23, continuing a gradual acceleration of wage growth in recent months. Earnings in July grew 3.8 percent over the previous year, up from a 3.5 percent annual pace in May and a 3.7 percent annual rate in June.
"Labor is getting more expensive per hour, and we're still using a lot of it," said Donald Ratajczak, the director of the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State University.
On Wall Street, which is far more attuned to the dangers of resurgent inflation and higher interest rates than to the benefits of full employment and rising wages, stock and bond prices fell.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 79.79 points to close at 10,714.03. The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond plummeted, sending its yield, which moves inversely with the price, to 6.17 percent late in the day, from 6.04 percent on Thursday.
With the economy eight and a half years into an expansion that has kicked promptly back into high gear every time it has shown signs of flagging, the Labor Department's report showed that job growth, adjusted to take account of normal seasonal variations, was strong in almost all industries.
Of special note was a jump of 31,000 in manufacturing employment, the first increase in that sector since General Motors workers returned from a strike last August, and the first not related to the strike since March 1998. Manufacturers had been hit especially hard last year by the fallout from the global financial crisis that began in mid-1997.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said last month that the central bank was watching intently for any signs that the combination of low unemployment and strong job growth was generating wage increases that could ignite inflation.
Some economists said today's data provided more than enough ammunition for the Fed to raise its benchmark Federal funds target rate by another quarter-point later this month, to 5.25 percent. The central bank raised rates by a quarter-point June 30. At the time, it said it was concerned that wage growth in a tight labor market could outstrip the strong gains in productivity generated by huge investments in computers and other technology.
The economists said that today's numbers reinforce a trend seen in various economic reports in the last few weeks. These include signs of a decline in the growth of productivity, or hourly output per worker, and a rise in the wage component of the employment cost index.
"The data confirm the reacceleration in the economy that I've been looking for in the summer," said Richard Berner, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. He estimated that growth is now running at an annual rate of 4 percent, up from 2.3 percent in the second quarter.
"At the same time they also suggest we're seeing the impact of tight labor markets on wage-setting," he said. "The gentle acceleration we're seeing in average hourly earnings confirms the trend we're seeing in the employment cost index and means the Fed will almost certainly tighten policy on August 24."
Based on trading in the futures markets, investors are all but certain that the Fed will raise rates this month to 5.25 percent. Futures contracts on Federal funds for September, which will come due after the Fed's meeting, already yield 5.23 percent.
Other analysts said that the case for a rate increase this month was not air tight, though they acknowledged that if the Fed did not move this month it would probably do so at its next meeting in October.
The Fed cut interest rates three times in quarter-point increments last fall when economies and financial markets around the world showed signs of seizing up. Many analysts now expect the central bank to rescind the remaining two of those cuts and perhaps tighten policy a bit more in the next six months or so if the economy remains strong.
That prospect is already generating political pressure on Mr. Greenspan not to squeeze the economy too hard in an effort to eliminate inflationary pressures that so far have been more theoretical than real. Despite rising wages, general price increases so far have been well contained, and some sectors of the economy, including agriculture and manufacturing, complain that monetary policy is too tight.
Steve Forbes, the Republican Presidential candidate, began running radio advertising this week in Iowa, ground zero in the dismal farm sector, criticizing Mr. Greenspan for pushing rates too high at a time when crop prices are depressed. The National Association of Manufacturers released a pointed analysis today concluding that even an acceleration in labor cost growth to 4 percent would result in only a small pickup in inflation.
Still, Mr. Greenspan has made clear his view that an ever-tighter labor market is a threat to generate inflation and endanger the stability of the long expansion. Should it continue, the current expansion will surpass at the end of this year the record set in the 1960's. And while the unemployment rate has hovered at 4.2 to 4.3 percent since March, the pace of job creation has picked up in recent months.
The 310,000 new jobs created in July "followed a 273,000 gain in June and was well above the average monthly increase of 208,000 for the first half of 1999," said Katharine G. Abraham, the Labor Department's commissioner of labor statistics. "Manufacturing and construction employment increased over the month, and several service-producing industries posted sizable gains."
The rate of job growth in the last year is still relatively moderate at 2.3 percent, said David Orr, chief economist at First Union Bank. But he said that even at that rate the pool of available workers is being steadily depleted because the labor force has been growing at only 1.4 percent.
In Congressional testimony last month, Mr. Greenspan said that "if the pool of job seekers shrinks sufficiently, upward pressures on wage costs are inevitable," and that such wage increases "have invariably presaged rising inflation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" plots total consumer borrowing, from Jan. 1998 through June 1999. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



157 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Job Creation Surged in July; Jobless Rate Unchanged
Employers added an estimated 310,000 nonfarm jobs in July, 50 percent more than analysts had anticipated, suggesting that economic growth rebounded early in the summer after tailing off in the spring. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate in July remained steady at 4.3 percent, the Labor Department said. 
 The report underscored the mounting pressures in the labor market and substantially increased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates at its next meeting, on Aug. 24, as a hedge against an inflationary spiral in wages and prices. Page A1.
 
Clinton Nominates a Bank Expert
President Clinton nominated Roger W. Ferguson Jr., a former management consultant whose monetary views are not widely known, to be vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Ferguson, who has served as a Fed governor for two years, was a banking consultant and a partner at McKinsey before he joined the Federal Reserve. C2.
 
Dow Jones Average Falls 80 Points
Blue-chip stocks resumed their slide. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 79.79 points, to 10,714.03, erasing more than half its 119-point gain on Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 13.42 points, to 1,300.29, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 17.86 points, to 2,547.97. C4.
 
Yields of Treasury bonds surged to 6.17 percent, from 6.04 percent on Thursday, the highest since 6.2 percent on Nov. 20, 1997. C4.
 
Jury Awards $23 Million in Diet Suit
In the first verdict from among thousands of cases pending against makers of the diet pills popularly known as fen-phen, an east Texas jury awarded $23.36 million to a woman who said she suffered heart damage after taking the drugs to lose weight. A7.
 
Volvo and Scania Planning to Merge
In a $7.4 billion deal that will create the world's second-largest maker of trucks and buses, Volvo of Sweden agreed to acquire its archrival Scania. The agreement comes just 15 months after the merger of Chrysler and Daimler created the world's largest truck and bus maker. C2.
 
G.M. Moves Toward Daewoo Deal
A General Motors executive said the company had signed an agreement with South Korea's struggling Daewoo Group that could lead to an alliance between G.M. and Daewoo Motor, Daewoo's core holding. A deal between the two companies would help G.M. increase its share of car sales in Asia, while for Daewoo it would bring much-needed capital as well as management expertise. C2.
 
French Bank's Bid Still Uncertain
The Banque Nationale de Paris chairman told a French daily he was certain of obtaining "indisputable power of control" over Societe Generale and that Banque Nationale had firm commitments through investors to get more than 50 percent of Paribas shares. But the statements by Michel Pebereau fell short of asserting that Banque Nationale would receive enough voting stock in Societe Generale to assert clear control. C2.
 
Standoff Over Bank of Japan Eases
Japan's Liberal Democratic Party said it would not press the Bank of Japan to buy Government bonds that are likely to be used to finance further fiscal stimulus programs. Economists had viewed a standoff over the issue as a test of Japan's commitment to free market principles, including maintenance of a central bank free of political interference. C2.
 
Partial Fix for Software Flaw
Microsoft released a partial fix for a security flaw in the company's Office 97 suite of programs. The company acknowledged that the fix was not satisfactory but said it was still testing a better solution that it planned to make available to customers during the week of Aug. 16. C5.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,714.03 down 79.79
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.17% up 0.13
The euro -- $1.076 -- Unchanged
The dollar -- 114.73 yen up 0.43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (72%); BNP (BIT) (72%); GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%); SCV.B (STO) (53%); SCV.A (STO) (53%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWEDEN (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (72%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); SCANIA AB (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWEDEN (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (50%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (89%); DAMAGES (86%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INFLATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); MERGERS (73%); VERDICTS (69%); JURY TRIALS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); DIETING (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (62%); 

PERSON: ROGER W FERGUSON JR (75%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



158 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: CONNECTICUT;
New Haven Gets a Grant For Clock Factory Plan

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
The City of New Haven has been awarded a $490,000 Federal economic development grant to help finance its Clock Factory Redevelopment Project, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development said yesterday.
The project is for a site that for more than 100 years was the home of the New Haven Clock Company. but has not been used for 20 years. The grant money will be used for demolition and preparation for a proposed 30,000-square-foot addition to a factory next door. 
 The addition to the factory will mean 25 jobs will be saved and 20 jobs created, said the factory's operator, Palmieri Food Products Inc.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SEM PRODUCTS INC (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); CITIES (88%); BUDGETS (88%); FOOD MFG (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (82%); FOOD INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: PALMIERI FOOD PRODUCTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1999



159 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 8, 1999

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	7	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) Seven years after his escape, the fiendish psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	4	GRANNY DAN, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $19.95.) A woman learns the secrets of her grandmother's past in czarist Russia.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	8	HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $17.95.) A British boy finds trouble when he returns to a witchcraft school.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	33	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $16.95.) A British boy finds his fortune attending a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	6	6	MOTHER OF PEARL, by Melinda Haynes. (Hyperion, $23.95.) The lives of a 28-year-old black man and a 15-year-old white girl converge in Petal, Miss., in the 1950's.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	12	WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Little, Brown, $24.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teen-age girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	8	3	CARNAL INNOCENCE, by Nora Roberts. (Bantam, $19.95.) A woman visiting Innocence, Miss., becomes enamored of a man suspected of being a serial killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	7	25	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a young woman who works as a missionary in the jungles of Brazil are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	10	8	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Viking, $23.95.) The progress of a young New York woman through the terrain of sex and love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	9	16	THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $16.95.) When a young girl gets lost in the woods, she is saved by her spiritual association with a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	11	3	TRUE AT FIRST LIGHT, by Ernest Hemingway. (Scribner, $26.) Stalking game on an African safari: a greatly trimmed version of a previously unpublished novel.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	12	3	MCNALLY'S DILEMMA, by Lawrence Sanders. (Putnam, $24.95.) Archy McNally investigates the death of a Florida playboy who lived a tangled life.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	14	5	LAKE NEWS, by Barbara Delinsky. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) To escape a scandal in the big city, a talented singer flees to her seemingly idyllic hometown.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14		2	THE SOLDIER SPIES, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $25.95.) The third volume of the "Men at War" series, about O.S.S. agents during World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	15	13	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A woman struggles to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	6	SHADOW, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) How the Watergate scandal affected the Administrations of Richard Nixon's five successors.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	94	 *TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	34	THE GREATEST GENERATION, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of men and women who came of age during the Depression and World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	5	THE FIRST WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Knopf, $35.) A historian recounts the 1914-18 conflict from the viewpoint of the strategists and the men in the trenches.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	4	2	SEE JANE WIN, by Sylvia Rimm with Sara Rimm-Kaufman and Ilonna Rimm. (Crown, $25.) The experiences of 1,000 girls as they became successful women.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	29	THE ART OF HAPPINESS, by the Dalai Lama and Howard C. Cutler. (Riverhead, $22.95.) What Buddhism and common sense tell us about everyday problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	9	ENCORE PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Knopf, $23.) Further adventures in the south of France.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	9	16	BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $25.) An American writer remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	8	9	 *I AIN'T GOT TIME TO BLEED, by Jesse Ventura. (Villard, $19.95.) Reflections on politics, pro wrestling and other subjects by the Governor of Minnesota.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	11	36	THE CENTURY, by Peter Jennings and Todd Brewster. (Doubleday, $60.) An account of the 20th century.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	14	3	THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	13	121	 *CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD: BOOK 1, by Neale Donald Walsch. (Putnam, $19.95.) The author addresses questions of good and evil, guilt and sin.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	10	18	YESTERDAY, I CRIED, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A counselor describes how she turned painful experiences into feelings of hope.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	15	16	THE MAJORS, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.) A sportswriter reports on the 1998 Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and P.G.A. golf tournaments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	12	13	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 16		10	 *EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Putnam, $27.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the Persian Gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	5	REAL AGE, by Michael F. Roizen with Elizabeth Anne Stephenson. (Cliff Street/HarperCollins, $25.) A physician's program for delaying the aging process. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	4	6	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $25.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	5	4	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	1	11	SUZANNE SOMERS' GET SKINNY ON FABULOUS FOOD, by Suzanne Somers. (Crown, $24.) A diet regimen to help people lose weight and remain healthy. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending July 24, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
THE BOOK OF HAPPINESS, by Nina Berberova. (New Directions, $23.95.) Set in the years surrounding the Russian Revolution, this novel of passionate candor allows its characters to love without irony and to speak ingenuously about what they really want (including happiness).
 
THE colony of unrequited Dreams, by Wayne Johnston. (Doubleday, $24.95.) An eloquent biographical anti-epic novel whose protagonist, the nebbishy but effectual Joseph Smallwood, betrays its real hero, the great, mysterious island of Newfoundland, into incorporation with Canada.
 
FRANCE ON THE BRINK, by Jonathan Fenby. (Arcade, $27.95.) A British Francophile -- the most hardened, inveterate kind -- reports on a France that he sees turning into just another country, with supermarkets, Marlboros and boring bread.
 
IN SEPTEMBER, THE LIGHT CHANGES: Stories, by Andrew Holleran. (Hyperion, $23.95.) Finely made stories, sharply awake to the idioms, cadences and concerns of gay life in the late 20th century, obsessionally aware of the passing of friends, health and youth.
 
ITALIAN FEVER, by Valerie Martin. (Knopf, $22.) Consciousness rather than plot develops in this novel that uses Italy as background to examine the effects of lovemaking on its reflective heroine.
 
THE PALACE, by Lisa St. Aubin de Tern. (Ecco, $23.95.) Glittering, passionate, minute description of material acquisitions enhances this novel about a former political prisoner who rises in society and builds a palace for the girl of his dreams.
 
REMEMBERING RANDALL: A Memoir of Poet, Critic, and Teacher Randall Jarrell, by Mary von Schrader Jarrell. (HarperCollins, $22.) NO OTHER BOOK: Selected Essays, by Randall Jarrell. Edited by Brad Leithauser. (HarperCollins, $27.50.) A charming, personal but discreet memoir of the last years of the astute and generous critic, by his second wife; and an essay collection that fairly represents his best work.
 
SAINT AUGUSTINE, by Garry Wills. (Lipper/ Viking, $19.95.) An informed rendering of the life and thought of the small-town African (A.D. 354-430) who became the most durable of theologians; usefully translated from the Churchly (for "Confessions," read "Testimony").
 
STILL WATERS IN NIGER, by Kathleen Hill. (Triquarterly/Northwestern University, $24.95.) Memory and anxiety are intertwined in a lyrical autobiographical novel, set in West Africa, that illuminates the losses and lapses of motherhood.
 
WHO DO YOU LOVE: Stories, by Jean Thompson. (Harcourt Brace, $23.) Emotional needs are rarely stated and more rarely met (romance and family don't help) in these quiet, devastating, all-downhill-from-here short stories. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (86%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WOMEN (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); HOMICIDE (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); BASEBALL (63%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (72%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%); STEPHEN KING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



160 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: 'The Utmost Mental Awareness'

BYLINE: By Paul Mattick; Paul Mattick is the author of "Social Knowledge" and editor of the International Journal of Political Economy.

 BODY:

Walter Benjamin
Selected Writings: Volume 2, 1927-1934.
Edited by Michael W. Jennings,
Howard Eiland and Gary Smith.
Translated by Rodney Livingstone
and others.
Illustrated. 870 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The Belknap Press/
Harvard University Press. $37.50. 
 I HAD just finished a couple of recent academic books on Walter Benjamin, the German philosopher and critic who killed himself while fleeing the Nazis in 1940, when this second volume of his selected writings came into my hands. No change of scene could better confirm Benjamin's judgment, made in a letter to a friend even while he was struggling to win a professorship, that university life was not for him.
When Benjamin's writing is obscure it is not because he uses jargon to signal membership in a restricted caste but because of the singularity of his thought and style, a singularity that for the most part expresses itself in prose that is clear, strong and illuminating. Even the ideas he shares with others of his time, like his insistence on the revolutionary effects of photography on visual and social experience, emerge in new forms shaped (to cite his description of Proust's writing) by "the constant attempt to charge an entire lifetime with the utmost mental awareness" and to put that charge in words.
For those who know only the small selection of essays and longer texts previously translated into English, this book may be a revelation. "Selected Writings: Volume 2," spanning the period from his abandonment of academia and his emergence as an important literary journalist in 1927 to his near silencing after the Nazis seized power and his exile in 1934, shows the writer at his sparkling best. His determination to "be considered the foremost critic of German literature," together with his need to earn a living, led to a stream of book reviews, meditative essays, travel pieces, radio lectures and occasional pieces written for newspapers and other periodicals. All his published work of this time is included here, from a few longer essays on themes as varied as the history of photography and Kafka to three-page pieces on recent French fiction, art history, "the crisis of the novel," food and the effects of hashish.
The new book also includes a generous selection of Benjamin's notes, diary entries and drafts. Interesting in themselves, and indispensable to anyone seeking insight into Benjamin's thinking, they also offer a view of the writer at work, developing different aspects of a thought or recycling successful paragraphs from one assignment to another. The book includes a useful chronology of Benjamin's activities and extensive notes for which (despite a few errors) readers will be grateful; the number of things -- from turn-of-the-century German litterateurs to political events -- that the editors feel it necessary to identify indicates the depth of the vanished culture Benjamin took for granted in his readers. Oddly, length restrictions in the Frankfurter Zeitung, the newspaper in which he published regularly, complemented Benjamin's devotion to the aphoristic, fragmentary style of German Romanticism, recast as modernist montage or collage.
Taken as a whole, these writings show Benjamin's response to two great influences: modern French literature and the Communist movement that emerged from World War I. Benjamin was well enough known as a critic of French writing to win an exclusive interview when Andre Gide visited Germany in 1928. Despite his lifelong admiration for Gide, he was most affected by Proust (he translated four volumes of "Remembrance of Things Past") and by the Surrealism of Louis Aragon and Andre Breton, which extended the archetype presented by Proust's madeleine to the transformation of Parisian monuments into real-world dream symbols. Benjamin applied the lesson to the Berlin of his childhood: "But isn't this, too, the city -- the strip of light under the bedroom door on evenings when we were 'entertaining'?" he asks in "A Berlin Chronicle," recovering an evanescent detail in which all the exciting promise of "night life" seems to glimmer on the other side of the child's bedroom door. And in the morning the daylight world of labor and so of class difference arises with "the carpet beating that came in at the window . . . and engraved itself more indelibly in the child's memory than the voice of the beloved in that of the man -- this carpet beating that was the language of the nether world, of servant girls, the real grown-ups."
The effective, if indecisive, break with the upper-middle-class expectations of his parents that Benjamin achieved with academic failure threw him into the "crisis of the intellectual" that preoccupied the Weimar intelligentsia, for whom the problem of making a living in a period of runaway inflation was combined with the problem of assuring themselves of their significance under novel social circumstances. Just as Benjamin found in the furniture and habits of his childhood milieu an objective correlative of his class origins, he took Communism to embody a solution to this personal and professional preoccupation. Having lived through the German revolutionary upheavals of the early 1920's without, apparently, engaging with them, he discovered Marxism-Leninism first in the person of a Latvian actress and director, Asja Lacis, whom he met on Capri in 1924, and then in a friendship with Bertolt Brecht, whose knuckleheaded opinions on literary and political matters he felt compelled to grapple with, though not to accept.
Benjamin's inability to distinguish Marxism from the Stalinism into which Leninism was rapidly turning was due to the same distance from actual politics that allowed him to take Marxist materialism as a version of the Surrealist idea that people's relation to everyday objects provides a key to the understanding of social experience. Whatever its limitations, however, his version of Marxism gave him the idea of "the author as producer" (the title of a famous essay of 1934), a participant in the social division of labor rather than a free-floating emanation of "Spirit"; it freed him to see the literary world he inhabited more clearly than many another writer. In a short article on Goethe's house in Weimar, for instance, this idiosyncratic materialism allows him to turn a simple travel piece into a meditation on the past and present of literature: reflecting on the simple furnishings of Goethe's home, dedicated exclusively to sleep and work "before the hellish dawn of bourgeois comfort began to cast its light in at the window," he saw in the poet's modest bed, chairs and desk "the forces that bade a world give him answer when he struck the sounding board of his innermost being." Today, he said, we "have to make an entire world resound in order to cause the feeble overtone of our inner being to ring out."
Benjamin celebrated Breton for perceiving "the revolutionary energies that appear in the 'outmoded' -- in the first iron constructions, the first factory buildings, the earliest photos, objects that have begun to be extinct, grand pianos, the dresses of five years ago." Such things embody the modernist dream of progress that modern society, with its world wars and daily destructiveness, reduces to ruin; to value them is to reject the world as it exists in the name of the happiness that the world as it exists has made people want. With a paradoxical twist, Benjamin insists on rejecting not technology but what is called culture, together with "the traditional, solemn, noble image of man, festooned with all the sacrificial offerings of the past." In its place he called in 1928 for attention to "that group of arts which is reckoned inferior but will not necessarily remain so," from photography through radio, film and "the electronic television of our own day." And five years later he asserted, in the face of the National Socialist catastrophe, that "in its buildings, pictures and stories, mankind is preparing to outlive culture, if need be."
This thought must have represented considerable effort on the part of a cultivated German, able to write the magisterial study of Goethe included in this volume and occupied, while turning out his newspaper pieces, with assembling a thousand pages of materials for a study of 19th-century Paris. But at the center of this remarkable intelligence we find, over and over in the texts collected here, a deep feeling for the activities and viewpoint of children. Along with texts Benjamin collected toys. "When the urge to play overcomes an adult," he asserted, "this is not simply a regression to childhood." While children "use play to create a world appropriate to their size," the adult, "who finds himself threatened by the real world and can find no escape, removes its sting by playing with its image in reduced form." And play, like dreaming, is not to be taken lightly: "What is truly revolutionary is the secret signal of what is to come that speaks from the gesture of the child." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WALTER BENJAMIN: SELECTED WRITINGS, VOL 2: 1927-1934 (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); HISTORY (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); PUBLISHING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); ART HISTORY (72%); CANNABIS (66%); 

PERSON: MATTICK, PAUL; JENNINGS, MICHAEL W; EILAND, HOWARD; SMITH, GARY GARY A SMITH (74%); HOWARD KINGSBURY 'HOWARD K' SMITH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



161 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Old Faith, New Soil

BYLINE: By Gustav Niebuhr; Gustav Niebuhr is a religion correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:

Islam in America
By Jane I. Smith.
Illustrated. 251 pp. New York:
Columbia University Press. $35. 
 A religious group may think itself truly established when its presence no longer seems remarkable. Islam is a distance from that point in much of the United States, but the faith has become far more deeply rooted here than many Americans realize.
Most medium-sized American cities now have at least one mosque. The military employs Muslim chaplains. And the White House has taken to sending out greetings on Id al-Fitr, the feast that ends Ramadan.
Given such developments, Jane I. Smith's fair, accessible and detailed book, "Islam in America," is most welcome. Hers is a straightforward account of the emergence in the United States of a major religious tradition, one with about
a billion adherents worldwide. Smith covers beliefs, history, Muslim family life and the challenges believers face in a culture that esteems individualism and consumerism. She includes, too, an admirably extensive bibliography of primary sources, books, periodicals, videotapes and Internet sites. Go and learn is the message.
The volume can serve as a corrective to popular misconceptions. In no small part because of the violence of Middle Eastern terrorist groups, Islam seems exotic and sinister to many Americans. Yet its principles are easy to grasp. Its Five Pillars demand belief in God and Mohammed as God's prophet, ritual prayer, charitable giving, an annual fast and, if one is able, a pilgrimage to Mecca. Islam's historic roots lie in the Arabian peninsula, but its center of gravity is more South Asian than Middle Eastern, with the largest Muslim populations in places like Indonesia, India and Pakistan.
Immigration from these countries, as well as from Egypt, Iran and Turkey, has altered the American religious landscape, especially over the last 30 years. Today there are about six million Muslims on United States soil. But American Muslims are not a new phenomenon. As Smith, a professor of Islamic studies at Hartford Seminary in Connecticut, notes, evidence exists that some slaves brought from West Africa were Muslims. (One even left behind a diary, now in the University of Georgia archives.)
Organized worship in America dates back nearly a century. Muslims in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, claim the country's "mother mosque." It has been functioning for 70 years.
But confusion may arise among people who want also to account for the group known as Black Muslims. Just as Muslim immigrants were creating their first communities in the United States, some African-Americans were establishing black separatist movements combining a message of economic self-help with a peculiar theology that borrowed language and ideas from Islam. The most successful was Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam.
Malcolm X joined the Nation while in prison but moved on to embrace orthodox Islam before his assassination in 1965. Of greater importance to the development of Islam in the United States is Elijah Muhammad's son, Warith Deen Mohammad. After his father's death in 1975, he led many members into the faith's mainstream. (Louis Farrakhan broke with the younger Mohammad and revived the old organization.)
"Warith Deen emerged from this long process as a significant, recognized and respected leader of American Islam, one whose vision highly influences American blacks, both Muslim and non-Muslim," Smith says. "He has been called the contemporary mujaddid, the renewer of the religion of Islam for his age."
American Muslims have organizations that work toward public awareness and understanding. But the ultimate measure of Islam's integration into the American mainstream will be its recognition by secular organizations, and Smith points to some interesting developments -- a Detroit hospital that offers Muslim patients copies of the Koran, the new airport in Denver, built with a chapel designed for Muslim prayer. Her worthwhile study suggests that such examples will surely multiply in the future. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); RAMADAN (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (79%); HAJJ (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); FAMILY (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CHARITIES (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (68%); TERRORISM (66%); IMMIGRATION (63%); 

PERSON: JANE I SMITH (93%); WARITH DEEN MOHAMMAD (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



162 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: The First Squillion Years

BYLINE: By Dick Teresi; Dick Teresi is writing a book about the non-European roots of science.

 BODY:

The Five Ages
of the Universe
Inside the Physics of Eternity.
By Fred Adams and Greg Laughlin.
Illustrated. 251 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $25. 
 In 1966, when the cosmologist Edward Harrison accepted a teaching post at the University of Massachusetts, he was handed the Redbook, a manual for faculty members that explained what a university was, and what it wasn't. It cited two courses one wouldn't find in a curriculum of higher education: witchcraft and cosmology.
Fred Adams and Greg Laughlin have written a book about cosmology. In most cases, cosmology is the study of the universe as a whole, its history and origin, but for Adams, a professor of physics at the University of Michigan, and Laughlin, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of California, Berkeley, this is too small a canvas. "The Five Ages of the Universe: Inside the Physics of Eternity" goes far beyond the past and present universe. It describes in graphic detail the story of our cosmos from the big bang until 10,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000, 000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 years later. This number, written as 10100 in scientific notation, is sometimes called a googol, or as we cognoscenti say, a squillion. By comparison, the universe today is about 10,000,000,000, or ten billion (1010), years old.
Cosmologists have always struggled with ambitious goals and meager data. They take whatever scant secondhand evidence they can glean from the sky, mix it with popular norms and wisdom, toss in a bit of math and construct a model of the universe that provides solace to the populace, themselves and their benefactors, though not necessarily in that order. The medieval European universe was comforting and static: humans at the center; heavens populated by angels; a sphere of fixed stars; beyond that the primum mobile, a sphere maintained in constant motion by divine will; and, finally, the empyrean, a realm of pure fire where God lives. Medieval cosmologists provided their followers with purpose and place in the Christian universe, though to do so they had to borrow heavily from the Arabs, who supplied the primum mobile.
Today's leading cosmological model is the big bang (or, as cosmologists write it, Big Bang). It, too, is a beauty. Tenaciously bourgeois, the universe generated by the big bang is a masterpiece of marketing. With its fiery explosions, wormholes, white dwarfs, red giants and black holes, the big-bang universe satisfies our Lucasfilm sensibilities. It also features an abrupt beginning to appease our Judeo-Christian creation myths, and is constantly expanding, like our economy. It is the biggest-budget universe ever, with mind-boggling numbers to dazzle us -- a technique pioneered by fifth-century A.D. Indian cosmologists, the first to estimate the age of the earth at more than four billion years. We are not at the physical center of the big-bang universe, and there is no God, yet it is an anthropocentric model. The huge numbers -- the comparative strengths of the four forces, the surplus of matter over antimatter and so forth -- are delicately balanced to result in the evolution of intelligent life (i.e., cosmologists). Once again, a human-constructed universe ends up with humans, at least mathematically, at its center.
All previous Western cosmologies have succumbed to their successors. The big bang's fate seems obvious. "The notion that we have lifted all the veils," Harrison says, "can't be true. We would leave no new universes for our descendants to discover."
Adams and Laughlin have left nothing for their descendants. They begin by telling us the birth of the universe is "now understood in stark rigid detail." This despite the admission that the closest observational data take us back no farther than 300,000 years before the big bang. This is like an anthropologist describing the cave painters of Lascaux after examining Versailles.
From that starting point, the authors' self-confidence continues to inflate at superluminal velocities. They divide the first squillion years of the universe into five epochs. The Primordial Era is the first 10,000 years, when the universe is dominated by radiation. We humans are living in the middle of the Stelliferous Era, dominated by stars, galaxies, clusters and superclusters. The Degenerate Era is darker and colder. The galaxies have run out of hydrogen gas, and no new stars are formed. The Black Hole Era begins when all the protons have decayed, and the only stellar objects left are black holes. As you can imagine, the lighting is poor. It gets worse. When all the black holes have evaporated, the Dark Era arrives. This appears to be the end of the road, but the authors show how new "child universes" can be created. (There are drawings, presumably for those adept with tools.)
Along the way, Adams and Laughlin relate many entertaining scenarios: the ejection of Earth from the solar system when it is visited by a red dwarf, the tribulations of a large (a million solar masses) and diffuse individual named Bob, the transformation of Tang at high speeds and a computer composed of several black holes.
One derives a certain perverse joy from watching Adams and Laughlin struggle to construct Saganesque comparisons. "A cubic centimeter of neutron star material, the size of a sugar cube," we are told, "has the mass of nearly a billion elephants!" Three paragraphs later we are informed, "A black hole the size of a baseball has about five times the mass of Earth." One must convert baseballs to sugar cubes and Earths to elephants to compare the densities of neutron stars and black holes. I had to call the Bronx Zoo to inquire about the mass of a neutron star. Patrick Thomas, the curator of mammals, said it depends on the species and sex of the elephant. A dainty Asian female would result in a neutron-star sugar cube of 2,300 billion kilograms, whereas a robust African bull would provide a cube of 4,500 billion kilos, almost double the mass. The African neutron star would have tusks.
The real problem with Adams and Laughlin (who have a collective mass roughly equivalent to two Salman Rushdies) is credibility. "The Five Ages of the Universe" might be cosmology, but it probably isn't physics, as the subtitle claims. Since the time of Galileo, physics has been an experimentally falsifiable science. The early universe, however, has yet to be replicated, and the future is . . . the future. The authors are extrapolating from the unfalsifiable to the unknowable.
The veils have not all been lifted. In fact, we're still trying to think of the right questions. Three scientists recently suggested that we ought to count the stars, carefully, comparing one galaxy with another. In the movie "The Truman Show," 29-year-old Truman Burbank believes he is living in a small city, when in reality he has spent his life on a set populated by only a few dozen actors who are cycled past him endlessly to create the illusion of random citizens. This is possible because humans have a very low number sense, 4. This is the number of things we can distinguish between without counting. We are superior to cats in number sense, on a par with crows. Truman is fooled because, like most of us, he isn't counting. In one scene, Christof, "the creator," errs, looping only three objects -- lady on a bike, man with flowers, dented Volkswagen -- around Truman, who immediately senses the deception.
IN a recent issue of Scientific American, Jean-Pierre Luminet, Glenn D. Starkman and Jeffrey R. Weeks -- two astrophysicists and a mathematician working on ways to determine the topology of the universe -- said that our large, apparently endless universe could be illusory. Light from stars could bounce around a cleverly shaped universe, taking multiple paths to our eyes. If galaxy A in the east looks like galaxy B in the west, maybe it's the same galaxy. Are we living in a cosmic "Truman Show"? We'd have to count the stars. Richard Kron, an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago, says that could be done, but it wouldn't be high on his list of priorities. Who wants to live in a smallish, low-budget universe? PBS would have to overdub the television series "Cosmos," with an awe-struck Carl Sagan staring at the sky rhapsodizing about "hundreds and hundreds" of stars.
One advantage of this universe is that some light paths would be longer than others; we could see our planet in an earlier epoch. Imagine an astronomer looking back at us ages hence. Perhaps he can read the bound galleys in my hand. Maybe he will be kinder than I have been here.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Boris Kulikov)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FIVE AGES OF THE UNIVERSE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); CURRICULA (77%); LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); BUDGETS (69%); 

PERSON: TERESI, DICK; ADAMS, FRED; LAUGHLIN, GREG GREG LAUGHLIN (89%); FRED ADAMS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



163 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 16; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: The Avant-Garde: Follow That Backpack

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; JESSE McKINLEY writes the On Stage and Off column for The Times.

 BODY:
CALL them budgeteers or independent travelers or plain old backpackers, but those who travel light and cheap are often the trailblazers of the tourist set.
With limited cash and a thirst for uncommon sights, backpackers have pushed into challenging territory well before the big-money resorts or tchotchke merchants. In the late 1980's and early 1990's, that meant backpackers in the cobblestoned streets of Prague, hitting its dirt cheap bars and soaking up the city's glimmering, storybook architecture. At the same time, closer to home, Costa Rica, with its eastern beaches and western jungles, was gaining favor even as much of Central America struggled with political and military strife. A generation earlier, Americans and Europeans flocked to warmer places like Bali, where beautiful beaches and inexpensive hotels continue to draw sun- and bargain-worshipers. 
 So where is the backpack crowd headed now? An informal survey indicates that points east and southeast continue to appeal.
Heading the list is Thailand, which many travel professionals say has become the top low-cost destination in Asia. Jesse Walkershaw, a part-time backpacker and full-time manager at Airtreks.com, a San Francisco-based travel service, said his clients usually arrive via Bangkok, and then trek either north to the highlands around Chiang Mai or south to the coastline near Koh Samui. "The north is hill tribe country," he said. "The south is all about the beaches."
Edward Hasbrouck, the author of "The Practical Nomad: How to Travel Around the World" (Moon Publications), said Vietnam remained hot. The appeal, he said, is its untouched flavor. "It's very easy to get off the tourist track" in Vietnam, Mr. Hasbrouck said. "It's a country as big as California with twice as many people." One caveat, however: Tourist visas are commonly limited to a month.
The recent -- and long-term -- economic struggles in the region have also made Thailand, as well as Laos and Vietnam, "super cheap," Mr. Walkershaw said. That appeals to people like Joey Kern, a college-age traveler who lives in New York. "I hear for $4.50 you can make it for three months," said Mr. Kern, who is planning a trip there. "O.K., maybe $4.75."
O.K., that is an exaggeration, but Mr. Walkershaw says $10 a day is reasonable.
Nick Paonessa, a graduate of New York University who backpacked across Europe last summer, said Thailand was next on his list. He put his fascination down to "The Beach," a recent novel by Alex Garland, a young British writer, that tells the story of a compulsive 21-year-old traveler and his friends who, in pursuit of unspoiled nature, head to Thailand. "I want to go there and try that out," Mr. Paonessa said.
Other classic Asian locales for those looking for enlightenment -- or just good, cheap fun -- include India and Nepal.
Latin America offers an enormous number of choices. Peru, Mexico, Bolivia and Central America have long been destinations for backpackers seeking close contact with nature and indigenous cultures.
David Kirby, a writer who travels about once a year to Mexico on a daily budget of $10 to $40 a day, says that outside of Cancun and other high-end resort areas, backpackers in Mexico can travel like kings. "When you backpack through Europe, which I did, you feel poor," he said. "But in Mexico, $20 a day can get you three basic meals and a decent room. You don't feel deprived."
While Palenque and the states of Chiapas and Oaxaca are fixtures on Mexico's backpacking trail, Mr. Kirby said, the often overlooked central state of Michoacan is gaining adherents for its colonial towns, pristine lakes and Indian villages.
A modest budget can also take you far in Peru and Bolivia. Christine Corcoran, a graduate student at Columbia University whose trip to Machu Picchu two years ago was a "life altering" experience, spent as little as $8 for a room in nearby Cuzco.
As adventurous as Asia and Latin America sound, many budget travelers still head to Europe for their first trips. London, Paris and Amsterdam continue to draw hordes of backpackers, said Caroline Sherman, the editor of "Let's Go: Europe '98," the popular budget guidebook series put together by Harvard students. But even in Europe, less obvious locations are being scouted out. Ms. Sherman said, via E-mail, that Cracow, Vilnius and Berlin were all hot; Mr. Walkershaw mentioned Bratislava.
Farther west, Portugal has recently taken advantage of overflow crowds from Spain. And money and sunny matter. "It's less expensive than Spain," wrote Ms. Sherman. "And has great beaches." That sentiment was echoed by Mira Svatovic, 20, a student at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. "The beaches are the most beautiful thing I've ever seen," she said. "Rocks protruding out of the water and underwater caves." Her favorite place was the coastal city of Lagos in the Algarve, where her hotel was $30 a night and she ate cheap seafood from the blue waters of the bay.
On the other end of the thermometer, Iceland is also cool right now. Backpackers rave about the budget accommodations and hostels, which usually include a bed and a sleeping bag and are uniformly clean, though prices are considerably higher in summer. Part of the island's popularity can be traced to a continuing promotion by Icelandair, which allows short stopovers between the United States and Europe. On a low-budget trip to Reykjavik last spring, I was impressed by the rugged landscape, the northern lights and, most of all, a night life that lasts past dawn -- which, above the Arctic Circle, is about 3:30 A.M.
Prague, too, apparently continues to hold a Saturnalian appeal. "Prague is probably still the hottest city around," Mr. Paonessa said. "It's so beautiful and so cheap. It's 50 cents for a pint, and for three bucks you can get steak and a drink." Which raises the question of whether young backpackers are seeking new frontiers or just a good party.
Another party destination that continues to lure crowds of backpackers is the Spanish island of Ibiza, in the Balearic Islands of the Mediterranean. Several travelers said the scene there -- with stadium-sized discos and a crush of youngsters from across Europe -- was legendarily libertine. "Everybody's sleeping on the beach," Mr. Paonessa said.
That is not the usual type of accommodation for today's backpackers. While European travelers still prefer the affordability of hostels, many visitors to Asia stay in swankier hotels, bungalows or guesthouses for as little as $5 a day.
Some popular locations in Europe have suffered of late because of the turbulence in the former Yugoslavia. Ms. Sherman said that was especially true of Greece and Turkey. "Istanbul and the west coast of Turkey had really taken off," she said. But since the war in Kosovo and the trial of the Kurdish rebel Abdullah Ocalan, tourist trade to Turkey's western coast has "slowed down considerably."
Mr. Kern, 22, said his buddies have also cooled on Russia, in vogue in the early 1990's. "You get the feeling that they're so poor it just wouldn't be fun," he said.
Regional instability has had an impact elsewhere. Mr. Walkershaw said some American backpackers have steered clear of Central and East Africa since last summer's terrorist attacks on the United States embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. That may be a boon for countries like Mozambique, which is slowly recovering from a 17-year civil war. "Things keep getting hairier and hairier in East Africa," Mr. Walkershaw said. "And Mozambique is picking up a lot of that action."
Neighboring South Africa is also on the rise, Ms. Sherman said. The Tourism Bureau of South Africa reports that approximately 200,000 backpackers visited the country's hostels in 1998, an increase of some 20 percent from the previous year. The coastal city of Durban and the entire Kwa-Zulu/Natal region are particularly popular with backpackers.
What of the future? Travel professionals regard China as most likely to succeed. The World Tourism Organization predicts that China will be the most popular destination in the world in the early 21st century. But free-spirited backpackers may be put off; most travelers are strictly scheduled on tours, with little latitude for exploration.
Mr. Walkershaw suggested that Iran might be an up-and-comer, though backpackers would have to adapt: "They ain't going to put up with you doing whatever you please," he said. "There'll be no girls in halter tops, that's for sure." (Recent student protests and a crackdown by the Government have since caused concerns about the area's safety this summer.)
Mr. Hasbrouck, who has circled the globe twice, says Iran is on his wish list despite the problems. "Everyone I know comes back and says, 'This is a wonderful place, you have to go.' " He also mentioned India and other parts of the subcontinent.
"I think there's a backlash among backpackers against the commodification of travel and the homogenization of the world," said Mr. Hasbrouck. "Simply going to a town you find on the map, or riding a bus to the end of the line, can be wonderful experiences. And you don't find them in brochures."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Khao San Road, Bangkok. (Daisann McLane) En route to village of Thame, Nepal, and to K2 in Pakistan. (Bill O'Connor/Peter Arnold); (Galen Rowell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); VIET NAM (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); VIET NAM (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BEACHES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); WRITERS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: JESSE WALKERSHAW (71%); CAROLINE SHERMAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



164 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 37; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4418 words

HEADLINE: The Precarious Triumph of Human Rights

BYLINE: By David Rieff; David Rieff is finishing a book on humanitarianism.

 BODY:
The age of human rights is upon us. This spring, the United States fought a war in the Balkans in the name of human rights and humanitarian imperatives -- the first war in recent memory, as President Clinton has said, waged in the name of values rather than strategic interests. Similar sentiments have been voiced by America's allies in Europe. Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has been campaigning for "a new internationalism based on values and the rule of law." In these post-Communist, post-modern times, human rights seems to have become the dominant moral narrative for thinking about world affairs.
No longer does national sovereignty provide blanket protection for human rights abusers -- as Slobodan Milosevic learned when, at the height of the Kosovo conflict, he was indicted for war crimes by an international tribunal at The Hague. An even stronger signal was sent last October, with the arrest in London of the former Chilean strongman Gen. Augusto Pinochet. The very idea that the British police would honor a Spanish judge's request for extradition based on crimes committed in Chile is astonishing; such a complex web of cooperation would have been inconceivable 10 years ago. But it shows that the old assumption that national sovereignty trumps all other principles in international relations is under attack as never before. 
 The human rights movement has achieved other victories. The 1997 signing of an international treaty prohibiting land mines is the most significant abolition of a weapons system since the use of poison gas in wartime was banned in 1925. The ad hoc international tribunals for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia inspired plans for a permanent International Criminal Court, one with the power to judge people charged with gross violations of international humanitarian law under the legal principle of universal jurisdiction. The revival of this principle was largely the brainchild of human rights lawyers.
A political New World Order may be even further off than it was when President George Bush proclaimed it a decade ago. But in the eyes of many Western intellectuals, there is a New World Moral Order -- one ruled by ideas like civil society, humanitarianism and, first and foremost, human rights. The writer Michael Ignatieff calls this "a revolution in humanitarian concern" and celebrates "the emergence of vast constituencies of human rights activists, development workers and aid experts whose moral rationale is the indivisibility of human interests and needs in an interdependent world."
It is a revolution that has happened with surprising swiftness. In the 1960's, the budget for Amnesty International was somewhere around $20,000. Human rights groups were barred from many if not most parts of the world, and they had great difficulty getting Governments even to listen to them. Today the situation could not be more different. Human Rights Watch, the most powerful and influential Western human rights organization, has a budget of $15 million -- thanks to generous financing from donors like George Soros and the Ford Foundation -- and its leaders meet regularly with top Government officials. President Jimmy Carter's exhortation that human rights must be the "soul" of United States foreign policy has been institutionalized. The State Department now boasts an Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues and an Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights (currently, Harold Koh, who used to sit on the board of Human Rights Watch). And few foreign-aid programs now go forward without "democracy building" and human rights stipulations.
Yet paradoxically, at the very moment when its ideas have become mainstream, the human rights movement seems adrift. The movement's signature strategies -- releasing shocking reports detailing abuses, exploiting the media to shame Western leaders into action -- no longer have the impact they once did. More important, an entrenched moral absolutism has made it all too easy to ignore the cries of activists. Institutions like the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are sure to condemn any peace treaty or political accord that promises to let human rights abusers off the hook -- even when continued conflict risks destroying a country, as was the case recently in Sierra Leone. A serious consequence of activists' blinkered worldview has been a marked failure to establish widespread support among ordinary citizens. For all its influence in elite circles, the human rights constituency is a tiny fraction of that commanded by grass-roots organizations of either the right or the left. Without a broad base of support, it may have reached the limits of its effectiveness. Whether its leaders know it or not, the human rights movement is in trouble.
The modern age of human rights began just half a century ago. In the aftermath of the Second World War, an international system of rights was drafted. It included aspects of the 1945 United Nations Charter -- the statutes that formed the legal basis for the Nuremberg trials, the Genocide Convention and, above all, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The declaration's preamble proclaimed the need for Governments and individuals to promote and defend a panoply of social, political, cultural and economic rights "nationally and internationally." Eleanor Roosevelt, one of the declaration's animating spirits, imagined that its adoption would strengthen that side of human nature that "reaches for the stars."
But it proved to be a false dawn. The gap between the laws on the books and the realities on the ground could scarcely have been wider. In retrospect, the European powers were more intent on trying to maintain their colonial empires than on giving human rights a central role in international affairs. State sovereignty remained all but absolute; what states did within their own borders to their own citizens, no matter how hideous, was judged to be nobody else's business.
In the 1960's and 1970's, the human rights movement shifted its focus to the plight of imperiled individuals -- especially political prisoners and torture victims. Amnesty International led the way. Gradually, other human rights groups, notably Human Rights Watch, began to expand the scope of protection, focusing above all on the issues of women, children, refugees and civilians in war. They also began to try to develop interdependent, collaborative relationships with activist groups in countries where abuses were taking place.
Improbably, the Reagan Administration played the central role in legitimizing the American human rights movement. Aryeh Neier, the dean of American human rights activists, who, after directing Human Rights Watch, is now president of the Open Society Institute, has said that Reagan-era officials like Jeane Kirkpatrick and Elliott Abrams were "our greatest allies." He is not being ironic. "They helped us," Neier explained, "because they presented the confrontation between the U.S. and the Soviet Union as one between a totalitarian system and one based on civil liberties. But then they had to pretend that everyone on our side of the cold war was not violating human rights. That allowed Human Rights Watch to point out the gap between pretense and practice. It created enormous embarrassment." By documenting the real practices of United States client states, he said, "you could demonstrate the ways in which they didn't measure up."
The group's technique of highlighting Washington's hypocrisy was called "shaming." And it got results. When Human Rights Watch exposed the crimes that the U.S.-supported regime in El Salvador was committing on a routine basis, it actually forced the Reagan Administration to try to put a stop to the worst abuses. This was a direct result of pressure and lobbying by human rights groups on Capitol Hill. In 1981, Congress began imposing human rights standards that the Administration had to certify were in place in order for foreign aid to continue flowing. But given what U.S.-backed regimes were actually up to in El Salvador, such certification was nearly impossible. "In December of 1983," Neier recalled, "George Bush had to be sent to El Salvador to put a stop to the death squads. The Administration knew that otherwise Congress would never accept their certification, and they were desperate to secure the funding."
The Reaganites kept falling into the same trap. "Abrams and his colleagues made it a quarrel over the facts," Neier said. "The style of Human Rights Watch evolved directly out of this. We started producing thick, amply documented reports. That was different from what Amnesty International had done. Our emphasis was on providing the evidentiary bases for the claims we were making."
Bolstered by this combative approach, human rights groups became more and more influential. With Bill Clinton's election in 1992, the human rights movement appeared very likely to reach an even higher plateau. The new Administration presented itself as a partner, and in many ways it was. Lifelong advocates like Harold Koh, David Scheffer and John Shattuck were given posts in the Government. And rhetorically, Clinton's commitment to human rights was steadfast.
The reality, though, has been more complicated. Despite the triumph of Kosovo, the human rights movement has during the 1990's suffered an equally important defeat: the Clinton Administration's policy toward China. It was Clinton, after all, who severed the link between progress on human rights and most-favored-nation trading status. As a result, some advocates have begun to fear that in the future Western Governments may be willing to uphold principles only where economically unimportant countries like Serbia or Burma are concerned.
Kenneth Roth, the current executive director of Human Rights Watch, insists that this is not the case. "China is not illustrative," he said. "It's an anomaly." But others have drawn a different lesson. Neier seems less optimistic. "China," he argued, "has been able to play off the U.S. and the European Union. It is the first case where reverse human rights pressure has been applied. To Western Governments, the Chinese have said, in effect, 'If you criticize us, we will stop trading with you and turn to your competitor.' When the U.S. does it, the Chinese say they will stop buying from Boeing and start buying from Airbus, and vice versa." Neier thinks the best strategy is to persuade the Americans and the Europeans to take a joint position on trade, refusing to sell China goods it covets until the Beijing Government modifies its policies. He's right. Yet he admits that the trend has been almost entirely in the opposite direction, as Western Governments vie with one another for Chinese contracts.
The movement's loss over China does not invalidate its intellectual or moral assumptions. But it does suggest that the era when it was able to emerge victorious simply by exposing hypocrisy -- as it did with El Salvador -- is ending. Neier put the matter starkly: "We have more difficulty getting leverage with Clinton than we did with Reagan. Unlike in those years, today there are relatively few disputes over the facts." Having openly placed economics before human rights, the Clinton Administration can't be swayed from its current policies by yet another thick report documenting repression in Tibet. Clearly, alternative tactics need to be used.
But so far, such approaches haven't been forthcoming. By and large, the mainline organizations remain wedded to the methodologies of the Reagan era. Catherine Fitzpatrick, executive director of the International League for Human Rights, was probably exaggerating when she said, "Human Rights Watch is a report mill, the Committee to Protect Journalists is a case mill and we're an issue mill." But the human rights movement does seem unable to come up with fresh tactics for the post-cold-war world.
Human solidarity is a real fact of the world, but so is compassion fatigue, particularly in an era when press coverage of events is episodic, fickle and often trivializing. You can no longer build a political consensus for action, assuming you ever could, by showing yet another clip of disaster pornography on television. Nor can you simply issue reports, no matter how superbly researched, and demand that Governments alter their policies accordingly -- at least not where a powerful nation like China is concerned -- with any realistic expectation of success. To complain, as the 1999 Human Rights Watch annual report does, that "visits of world leaders to China were marked more by symbolism than substance," but at the same time to boast that "we used high-level visits to Asian countries as a focus for Advocacy work, with particular attention to the steady stream of state visitors to China," is emblematic of the bankruptcy of the current approach.
The Chinese example would seem to throw into question the claim by activists and their supporters that the worldwide revival of Enlightenment ideals -- with human rights at its core -- is very likely to take permanent root. Will today's post-Balkan optimism turn out to be another false dawn?
The issue is not whether the human rights movement does good. Unquestionably, it does. The question is whether it is configured, intellectually or operationally, to cope with the challenges of the 21st century.
On the practical level, the human rights movement needs to confront Holly Burkhalter's insight that "stigma is not getting the job done." Burkhalter, the advocacy director for Physicians for Human Rights, laments: "The only thing we really know how to do well is expose. We do that better than ever, and we're making galloping leaps in establishing norms. But you look at the great bloodletting of the recent past and you ask yourself, 'Are we seeing a reduction in violence against the innocent?"' When Human Rights Watch boasts that its goal is to "challenge Governments and those who hold power to end abusive practices and respect international human rights law," it is easy to sympathize and to respect the principles being upheld. But it is also hard to ignore the fact that the abusers the human rights movement are now seeking to challenge are not politically vulnerable American officials, but warlords in southern Sudan or Serb paramilitaries. Do these people care about international human rights norms? Not likely.
The human rights movement has assumed that establishing norms will lead to a better world. But can anyone be confident that developing the "right" norms will lead to effective enforcement? It sometimes appears as if it is extrapolating from the experience of civil rights legislation. You establish norms, and they're unpopular, but eventually people acquiesce. But what if the model is not civil rights law, but drug law, in which the norms have not led to obedience but to mockery of the law itself?
Other cherished assumptions need to be confronted as well. Advocates routinely claim that there can be no peace without justice. But the evidence suggests that often that isn't true. Consider the eight-year civil war in Sierra Leone, during which Revolutionary United Front guerrillas committed the most unspeakable atrocities and war crimes -- routinely mutilating children and raping and murdering civilians. When they were defeated by a Nigerian-led regional intervention force in 1998, their leader, Foday Sankoh, was tried and sentenced to death. To have executed Sankoh would have been justice. But the reality in Sierra Leone was that there could be no peace without a deal between the rebels and the Government. The guerrillas would not sign until Sankoh and other detained rebels were pardoned and set free. In the name of peace, the Government agreed not to prosecute -- rightly, in my view. In order to seize what was almost certainly Sierra Leone's only chance, justice had to be sacrificed. And as a result, a fragile peace reigns in Freetown for the first time since 1991.
But the outrage of the human rights movement knew no bounds. Mary Robinson, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, declared that the United Nations did not accept the deal. There could be no impunity for human rights violations, she insisted. And in a letter to the United Nations Security Council, Human Rights Watch denounced the agreement. Its advocacy director, Reed Brody, announced that his group would lobby to get the blanket amnesty for Sankoh and his comrades annulled.
The indignation of the human rights movement was a perfect illustration of the remark by Stephen Holmes, a political scientist at Princeton, that "justice is too often something that takes place 'out there."' Closer to home, we have different standards. At the same time Western leaders were welcoming Slobodan Milosevic's indictment for war crimes and insisting that the days of the "culture of impunity" were numbered, the Blair Government in Britain was releasing paramilitary prisoners in Northern Ireland to further the peace process there. "Justice and peace are often not the same thing," Holmes has said. "Actually, they can be contradictory."
Examples of this tension can be found around the globe. An obvious example is Algeria. In 1992, faced with the threat of Islamic fundamentalists taking power after free elections, the Algerian Government annulled that vote and imposed a state of emergency. Human rights groups were quick to respond. Amnesty International issued a special report denouncing the Government. The counterargument -- namely, that had the fundamentalists been allowed to take over this might have been the last free election to be held in Algeria -- cut no ice with them. Norms were norms, and violators were violators. In a similar display of orthodoxy, Human Rights Watch recently accused the United States Government of making drugs rather than human rights "the centerpiece of U.S. policy" in Colombia. The message was plain: it is immoral ever to fail to uphold human rights.
I would say that there is a case to be made for what the Algerian generals did -- and that it's understandable that the United States has concluded that Colombian drug interdiction is at least as important a concern, and as morally reputable a one, as human rights. This is not to say that human rights advocates are wrong to point out abuses; in the Algerian case, there was ample evidence of systematic and barbarous behavior on the part of the authorities. But there is a danger in turning human rights principles into dogma.
Imagine if Human Rights Watch were confronted not with contemporary Algeria but with Germany circa 1932. Wouldn't the world have been better off had there been a German Government with the courage to annul Hitler's victory at the polls? Seen through the tunnel vision of today's human rights leadership, such a move would have been unacceptable. A violation, after all, is a violation. It may be stacking the deck to use an analogy with Nazi Germany, but it illustrates the hard questions about the assumptions of the human rights movement that are not being asked. What if you are a secular Algerian citizen? What is the relative moral weight of the human rights imperative versus your well-founded fear of fundamentalism? At the very least, the picture becomes cloudier, and the transcendent insights of human rights suddenly seem less transcendent.
Even the Kosovo conflict points to a problem with the human rights movement's absolutist stance. Most activists, though not all, privately hoped for and initially welcomed NATO's action. But consternation and self-doubt began almost from the moment the first bomb fell. Human Rights Watch even issued a report denouncing NATO military tactics like dropping cluster bombs on civilian areas. And yet it seems that it was precisely this bombing of civilian targets in Serbia -- which may well have been illegal under international law, just as Human Rights Watch has asserted -- that eventually forced the Milosevic regime to give in. The battle-damage assessments have shown that Serb forces in Kosovo came through largely unscathed. Once again: do human rights norms provide an adequate guide to what the right thing to do is in a hard case like Kosovo?
Some human rights advocates insist that their only obligation is to document abuses, not to shape Government policy or figure out how enforcement can be implemented. They argue that only by maintaining an objective, extra-political stance can they retain their credibility. As Leonard Rubenstein, executive director of Physicians for Human Rights, put it: "Our role is to highlight violations, no matter who is doing them. Our first order of business is to do no harm. If you take a side, you're morally implicated in the consequences."
In the abstract, this may be true. But to mobilize mass constituencies and affect public opinion, activists cannot simply call for "something" to be done -- but then refuse to say what, exactly, is required. To do so will inevitably appear like moral posing.
Even those who finance human rights groups are nervous about the movement's current hermeticism. As Larry Cox, an ex-Amnesty International staff member who is at the Ford Foundation, said: "Twenty years ago, when you went to a meeting at a human rights group, you saw all kinds of people. But these days, you usually find that most of the people there are either lawyers or human rights professionals. To me, the human rights movement has not been successful in capturing the imagination of a broad group of people -- the way, whatever I may think of them, a strong civil-society group like the National Rifle Association has done."
William Schulz, executive director of the American branch of Amnesty International, has similar concerns. "For a while, human rights groups had a great deal of success by setting in motion a process in which the human rights groups would inform the media, the media would inform the Government and then the Government would do something," he said. "But that model is breaking down. We have to become more constituency-oriented."
Few of his colleagues would disagree, but this agenda still does not have the high priority it should. That is a pity. Human rights is one of the major ideas to emerge from the 20th century. But it has yet to become an integral part of the fabric of American democracy. So far, what power the human rights movement has obtained derives not from an evolution in popular sentiment -- as occurred, for example with regard to civil rights or the environment -- but from the press and the political elite.
But in an age in which gross human violations seem to require military force or, at least, the threat of it -- power that often only America can provide -- the advantages of this elite strategy are disappearing fast. Kosovo is a case in point: the war may have been fought on human rights grounds, but it was fought on human rights grounds by pilots flying 15,000 feet up in the air. This was because the Clinton Administration knew there was no widespread support for casualties in defense of these human rights ideals.
Today's human rights workers wield great clout in Washington as long as they can work on an issue to which the public is not paying much attention. But when risks are involved -- and members of Congress are getting countervailing pressure from their districts -- the weaknesses of the insider approach quickly become apparent. The Rwandan genocide of 1994 was the most tragic case in point. Anthony Lake, then the national security adviser, reportedly told a Human Rights Watch representative who had quietly come to lobby him for United States action that he would be unsuccessful in pressing for an intervention unless a great deal of popular protest began to occur. But the human rights movement was in no position to mobilize it. It could merely publish more reports, issue appeals and dispatch more wrenching videotapes to the media.
The same is true with China. Joint trade sanctions will never happen unless American and European leaders know that a failure to act will hurt them at election time (or leave their campaign war chests empty). No amount of hectoring from advocates will keep them from putting economics first. Until their ideas are put forward in a way that stirs the public's imagination, human rights activists will be busy refining their norms as vast areas of the world go up in flames.
Human rights workers sometimes talk of their movement as an emblem of grass-roots democracy. Yet it is possible to view it as an undemocratic pressure group, accountable to no one but its own members and donors, that wields enormous power and influence. For example, would there have been a war in Kosovo without the human rights movement? As a supporter of the war in Kosovo, I applaud the result. As a democrat, I worry. It was a moral decision, but it was arrived at undemocratically.
Because there were no American combat casualties in Kosovo, the issue of popular support never really arose. But future human rights crises will most likely not be as cost-free as Kosovo; they will require sacrifice and impose losses. Will people be willing to accept this? Only, I think, if the human rights movement shows more willingness to engage in straightforward political activism, to get its hands dirty. It must lobby people in churches and shopping malls in the Midwest as assiduously as it lobbies Capitol Hill or the Ford Foundation. It must take its case to the public, not just rely on its influence and its certainty that it does an enormous amount of good in the world.
If the human rights movement cannot or will not engage in this way, then there is a great chance that the human rights paradigm will backfire the way affirmative action did. The parallel is striking. Affirmative action was also well meant. It drew popular opposition not, for the most part, because it was wrong, but because it was sneaked in, with no serious effort made to win people over. Convinced that their cause was right, its advocates saw no reason to campaign for it among the public at large. Instead, they relied on the courts, the law and legislation. And eventually, the whole project came undone.
At the moment, the human rights movement seems set to go down exactly the same path. If it does, it will, in the end, encounter the same result. That would be a very great loss.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sierra Leone: A suspected guerrilla sympathizer is arrested, beaten and humiliated in Freetown, February 1999. (Patrick Robert/Sygma); Kosovo: Burying the remains of 22 relatives killed by the Serbs at the family's compound not far from Pristina, June 1999. (Ron Haviv/Saba); Rwanda: The Red Cross delivers food to Rwandans at the Kibumba refugee camp in the former Zaire, 1994. (Tom Stoddart/Katz/Saba)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); RWANDA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHILE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); RWANDA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHILE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BUDGETS (84%); LANDMINES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); JUDGES (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: RIEFF, DAVID BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



165 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
At Lenox and 116th, Co-ops and Stores Are Rising

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
IN central Harlem, 125th Street is the principal commercial thoroughfare as well as the main focus over the years of public efforts to stimulate Harlem 's economic development.
But in its own way 116th Street has been coming on strong. Stretches of this crosstown thoroughfare show the signs of longterm housing improvement, and more recently new three-story houses have made their appearance on neighboring streets near Lenox Avenue. 
 Now a $61 million mixed-use project has gone into construction on the east side of Lenox Avenue from 116th to 117th Street, the largest expression so far of the Giuliani administration's emphasis on neighborhood retail development. Under the banner of the Anchor program, the city has been trying to induce retail development in locations where houses have been built under the New York City Housing Partnership program. The acronym Anchor stands for Alliance for Neighborhood Commerce, Home Ownership and Revitalization.
The 116th Street development, called Renaissance Plaza, will provide 60,000 square feet of stores, stretching all around the base of a mixed-use building in which there will be 241 moderately priced co-op apartments and parking for 200 cars. The site is diagonally across the street from the Malcolm Shabazz Mosque, whose religious leader, Imam Izak-el M. Pasha, is the community sponsor. The site is also at the express subway stop for the 2 and 3 trains, which bring riders to midtown in 10 minutes, a notable marketing asset.
The city-designated developer is Suna Levine Inc., a partnership of Stuart Match Suna and Jeffrey E. Levine. Mr. Suna is a partner in Metro Management Development, a Queens-based management firm, and president of Silvercup Studios in Long Island City. Mr. Levine is the principal in Levine Builders of Douglaston, Queens, which is handling the construction.
The Anchor program, administered by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development in cooperation with the Housing Partnership, is a departure for a local housing agency.
Rarely do housing agencies involve themselves with store development, especially when the stores serve a wide community purpose. And among Anchor projects Renaissance Plaza is unusual because the stores are a separately financed element in a building of scale at a central urban location.
The co-op sales will test the strength of the co-op sales market in central Harlem. Although the prices will assure a largely moderate-income occupancy, the eligibility limits are high enough to accommodate many middle-income buyers.
The apartments are expected to sell for about $160 a square foot when they go on the market in about six months, once the offering plan is approved by the New York State Attorney General's office. At that price, a 900-square-foot, two-bedroom apartment with one bath would sell for about $140,000, with a down payment requirement of 5 percent, or $7,000. The monthly maintenance charge would be about $1,165 , covering operating expenses, the underlying mortgage and property taxes, which are abated in the early years. A three-bedroom, two-bath apartment, with about 1,200 square feet, would sell for $192,000, with a monthly maintenance of $1,550.
THE apartment mix is 9 one-bedrooms, 129 two-bedrooms with one bath, 13 two-bedrooms with two baths and 89 three-bedrooms. Occupancy is expected to begin in the summer of 2001. Suna Levine, at Silvercup Studios, is handling buyer applications.
The developer must sell 75 percent of the apartments to buyers earning no more than 165 percent of areawide median income, which translates to a maximum income of $88,100 a year for a family of four. The rest of the apartments can be sold to households earning up to 250 percent of median income, or $133,500 for a family of four.
"We have tried for a solid, dignified building, which the community was asking for," said Navid Maqami , head of the New York office of the Atlanta-based firm of Greenberg Farrow Architecture, who designed the building. It will rise 11 stories on Lenox Avenue, and step down to eight floors facing 116th Street and six floors facing 117th Street, with a 10,000-square-foot landscaped courtyard between these elements on the roof of the stores.
The enthusiastic collaboration of Imam Pasha has been a key element in this and other nearby development projects. Born and raised in Brooklyn in the 50's and 60's, Imam Pasha worked as a plumber on major construction jobs, including the low-income Nehemiah project in East Brooklyn, before he was named to lead the Shabazz mosque by his late predecessor, Ali Rashid, in 1993. Since then he has been an advocate of racial harmony and community development. "We're all family here in New York," he once remarked in a sermon.
In 1994 Imam Pasha cooperated with the city in relocating street vendors from 125th Street on an interim basis to the cleared 116th Street development site. Their forced ouster had incited a protest requiring police action. With redevelopment at hand, the vendors were moved again last year to another interim site, at 116th Street and Fifth Avenue, and only two months ago they moved to a long-term site in the newly built Malcolm Shabazz Harlem Market.
The market consists of 116 small stores with neat signs and awnings lined up along several narrow pathways on 22,700 square feet of city-owned land. It was built with city funds on the south side of 116th Street between Fifth Avenue and Lenox Avenue. David Danois of Manhattan was the architect.
While city officials were dealing with the vendor issue, the Suna Levine partnership was trying to line up commercial tenants. Rite Aid, the drugstore chain, had signed on for 12,300 square feet in 1997, and Petland Discounts had committed to 2,400 square feet last February. Rents are expected to average about $25 a square foot a year.
But it was necessary to prelease 50 percent of the commercial space, or 30,000 square feet, to creditworthy tenants to nail down the financing for the $14-million commercial component, Mr. Levine said. The government-backed financing package needed a co-insurance commitment from the State of New York Mortgage Agency on the first mortgage loan, and 50 percent preleasing to creditworthy borrowers was a requirement of the agency.
The crucial lease was signed in December by Pioneer Supermarkets for 20,600 square feet. Pioneer has a market a third the size in rented space on the northwest corner of Lenox Avenue and 116th Street. The 20,000-square-foot building will become a redevelopment candidate when Pioneer moves. Since then, Ashley Stewart, a women's clothing store, has leased 12,000 square feet.
Chase Manhattan Bank is the lead construction lender for the project. The permanent financing on the commercial condominium consists of a first mortgage of $10.8 million from the New York City Employes Retirement System, plus $3 million in state and Federal money at 3 percent interest to reduce the overall debt burden.
THE residential component's first mortgage is a 35-year, 7.15 percent loan of $31.6 million from the city's Housing Development Corporation. To make carrying costs more affordable to buyers, the co-op will also have two city loans totaling $13.2 million, one of $6.9 million at 1 percent interest from the Housing Development Coporation and another of $6.3 million at zero interest from the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
The Shabazz mosque is also the sponsor of for-sale housing in the neighborhood. The Bluestone Organization, of Queens, is well advanced in the construction of Shabazz Gardens, 34 three-family houses on 117th Street west of Lenox Avenue and seven more on 118th Street east of Lenox. Sales contracts have been signed for all of them -- 21 houses at $223,000, and 20 at $278,500, said Ira Lichtiger, a partner in the Bluestone Organization.
Because Federal funds were used, half of these three-family houses had to be sold to buyers earnings no more than about $40,000 a year -- 80 percent of areawide median income. Using Fannie Mae underwriting standards, the lender is allowed to count as income 60 percent of the total rent the buyer is expected to receive -- in this case an estimted $1,650 for the two apartments -- making the houses affordable.
At Renaissance Plaza, Robert Greenstone Realty of Manhattan is handling the store leasing. With more than half the space already leased, he is looking for stores that provide services that complement those already in place, he said. "I'm looking for shoes, I'm looking for hardware, I'm looking for electronics, I'm looking for music," Mr. Greenstone said. "It's nuts-and-bolts retailing going into a neighborhood with nothing to serve people's needs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Below, houses being built on 117th Street between Lenox and Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard. (Billy Smith 2d for The New York Times); Rendering of Renaissance Plaza, left, $61 million project going up on Lenox Avenue from 116th to 117th Street. (Greenberg Farrow Architecture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUNA LEVINE INC SILVERCUP STUDIOS (56%); ALLIANCE FOR NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCE HOME OWNERSHIP&REVITALIZATION (69%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNA LEVINE INC ALLIANCE FOR NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCE HOME OWNERSHIP&REVITALIZATION (69%); NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); CITIES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); RELIGION (65%); APPROVALS (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PASHA, EL HAJJI IZAK-EL MU'EED (IMAM) IMAM PASHA (69%); STUART MATCH SUNA (58%); JEFFREY E LEVINE (58%); MALCOLM SHABAZZ MOSQUE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



166 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
As a Feminist, a King; as a Ballerina, a Klutz

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
THE movie marquee in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art says, "Now Showing: Eleanor Antin." Beneath it are a few stills of Ms. Antin's most famous roles, plus a free-standing cutout of her in full ballerina regalia. If you can't find Eleanor Antin in your movie guide, try the deadpan dictionary, the feminist gazette, the lexicon of subversive notions or, better still, the catalogue named after her by Howard N. Fox, curator of "Eleanor Antin," the first retrospective of 30 years of this artist's work (through Aug. 23). A lot of this show stars Ms. Antin on video as the marquee promises, and even more of it is theatrical in a quirky way, fleshing out the female role in the human comedy with laughter and cultural smarts and a deep curtsy to despair.
Female roles, rather: Ms. Antin hooked up early to the idea that personality, even gender, were not unified and static but various and shifting, and at different times she has tried on fantasy autobiographies as a king, a ballerina and a nurse. In real life (whatever that is these days) she was a painter and an actress first, then, in the later 1960's, a conceptual artist. She became a feminist artist, a video artist and a performance artist in the first years of the 1970's, coming early to all three parties and helping to make them memorable. 
 Ms. Antin made a kind of still movie in 1971-73: "100 Boots," a set of 51 photographic postcards that were mailed to hundreds of people around the world. These chronicle a picaresque journey taken by a staunch corps of boots from the Pacific Ocean to the Museum of Modern Art in New York, with a number of standard-issue adventures like going to market and to church, being unemployed, doing their best, and taking a hill (a victory of sorts), before going to the big city and ending up in a seedy dump. This reverse journey, from middle-class military to scruffy bohemia, is made by the most independent articles of clothing since Gogol's overcoat or Dr. Seuss's pale green pants with nobody inside them.
Mail art was still rather new, but male art bestrode the world and always had. Ms. Antin wryly commented on society's expectations of women and on women's possibilities of redefining themselves. "Carving: A Traditional Sculpture" (1972) is a pseudo-scientific record of her weight loss on a strict 36-day diet. She had herself photographed naked every morning -- front, back, left, right -- as she "carved" her "ideal" self through abnegation. In a wall text she refers to Michelangelo, "our great predecessor," who wrote that a sculptor could not create anything that was not already in the marble.
In the early 1970's women were still tossing around the heady idea that they could do something other than diet themselves to perfection. Feminism released a number of female fantasies into the realm of artistic expression, including autobiographies as explorations of gender, pace Marcel Duchamp. Ms. Antin paraded in the costume of a king for a while, in her self-appointed kingdom of Solana Beach, Calif., documenting her transition to manhood in a video of applying a beard. (Costume loomed large in feminist and performance art: big girls dressing up.) Her subjects were puzzled when she greeted them on sidewalks, pushed a marketing cart and thumbed a ride, but this was California, so perhaps it did not seem so strange.
Ms. Antin was not a cheerleader for the feminist movement and did not think women were any more likely to have it all than men were. Her king appeared in a video leading his (or her) followers to the promised land, which turned out to be a realm of bones and ashes. Her stories tend to be quixotic comedies wrapped around an elegy.
The exploration of the naked self and the clothed fantasy was one tactic in the campaign to introduce "feminine" material into the mainstream of art. Though male artists like Pollock and Rothko had abstracted their angst, self-revelation in the 1970's was assumed to be predominantly female. When men revealed themselves, they would do so under wraps. No messy confessions on Roy Lichtenstein's canvases or Carl Andre's lines of bricks, no tears or hysteria, no leaky emotions or insecure moments hung out to dry. At least not recognizably.
Women put their inner lives, their well-kept secrets, their embarrassing imaginations on view. In Judy Chicago's "Dinner Party," the female genitalia, which nature has discreetly tucked away, came barely disguised to the dinner table. In novels like Erica Jong's "Fear of Flying," women's sexual fantasies -- at least one woman's -- were laid bare.
Around that time, narrative swung in on the art pendulum as a reaction to minimalism's insistence on the circumscribed, storyless, hard material fact of the object. Ms. Antin, a low-life playwright in a high cause, had been hooked on stories for some time. She put aside her royal male self for another fictional autobiography, this one the most feminine of fantasies, the ballerina. Millions of little girls once dreamed of being a ballerina, paragon of grace, beauty and weightlessness, soaring above baby fat and acne on delicate clouds of tulle. Ms. Antin had herself photographed on point in classic poses.
She also had the photographic session filmed for a piece called "Caught in the Act," where she is seen galumphing unsteadily off her toes or clinging to a prop to steady herself for her fabulous split second aloft. Giselle is a klutz! Deadpan, Ms. Antin deals a mortal blow to the illusion of beauty and perfection offered by photography and foisted by all the media, and hints that even dreams of twinkling toes wear running shoes by day.
The scenarios of "The Loves of a Ballerina" -- short, silent films viewed through the windows of a mock movie theater -- unfold like romance novels written by Harpo Marx. In "Love's Shadow," the ballerina's shadow is implored by a three-dimensional lover who, when she rebuffs his suit, impetuously shoots her silhouette. At once he is overcome by despair and tenderly clasps her dying shadow. In "Swan Lake," the ballerina, in a brief, black tutu, leans over and waggles her cute little behind. Et voila, there emerges from the groin of her male companion the head and long, curved neck of a plush swan. Alas, it soon droops, but the ballerina coaxes it up again, and the couple exits to applause.
Ms. Antin's most extensively pursued role was Eleanora Antinova, the only black ballerina in Diaghilev's company. In Antinova's first dance, "L'Esclave" ("The Slave"), she was chained and never moved her feet. "I was the only dancer in the world to do a stationary dance," her text says. "Luckily, the artists adored its self-referential ironies."
THE feminist movement in its early years was a white women's movement not overly concerned with race or ethnicity. Ms. Antin brought up the race issue early, and was criticized for playing a black woman. (She recently said that African-Americans didn't criticize her; only white liberals did.) The idea of a black ballerina in Diaghilev's company in the 1920's, when ballet was white to the tippy tip tips of its satin shoes and Paris was enamored of the American-born Josephine Baker, clad in bananas and dancing bogus jungle dances, is more pointed than a ballerina's big toe.
In 1981, Ms. Antinova, by then past her prime, down on her luck and subsisting on sherry, gave performances in New York and elsewhere in a salon that the Los Angeles show recreates, decorated with photographs of her great roles, her own amusing accounts of her choreography and her elegant water colors of Diaghilev and his scintillating circle. In performance she recalled her days of glory and slowly sank into her sherry. Again the fantasy does a smart jete and lands on the lip of the abyss.
Ms. Antin kept reinventing herself, proving that American fantasies had second and third acts. In an interview with Mr. Fox in the show's catalogue, she remarks that "service is the main role our culture has allotted to women, and we've been put down for it ever since." In comes Nurse Eleanor, cheerfully exploited by all manner of men and involved in soap opera adventures, some a bit too long-winded to be gripping, though she does perform an operation by herself.
Nurse Eleanor had another incarnation as Eleanor Nightingale, the heroic founder of the profession. Her all-too-properly buttoned-up family and her landmark career in the Crimean War are playacted by Ms. Antin and others in fine, fake period photographs. In a related play, Nurse Eleanor muses that bandaging a soldier meant sending him out to kill again. The war photographs include several images of the wounded and dead, subjects that Roger Fenton, the photographer who actually went to that war in 1855, never photographed because the British were not supposed to see them.
In the 1990's, Ms. Antin's references have grown wider. In "Vilna Nights" (1993), the windows of a mock-up of a bombed-out building in the Jewish ghetto in Vilna show scenes of the people who once lived there. A sobbing tailor ceaselessly mends the tattered clothes of dead children. A woman clutches letters in anguish before burning them. Two frightened, hungry children are miraculously visited by a menorah and a Hanukkah feast, only to have it all disappear when they sit down to eat. This view of the Holocaust is similar in spirit to work by Shimon Attie, who has projected pre-war photographs of residents and establishments of the former Jewish district in Berlin on the buildings that still stand there.
Ms. Antin, Jewish, a woman and an artist, considers herself an outsider through and through, so in a way a piece like "Vilna Nights" is but a more desperate comment on the identity and experience of the outsider than her comedic saunters through fantasy autobiographies. "I may be ironical, I may be funny," she says in the catalogue interview, "but I'm not kidding." She also says that even in her baby days she had her calling: causing trouble. Lucky us.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Love's Shadow" from "The Loves of a Ballerina," a silent-film series by Eleanor Antin, 1987. (Becky Cohen/Los Angeles County Museum of Art)(pg. 35); Eleanor Antin's "100 Boots Move On" from "100 Boots" (1971-73), a black and white postcard. A set of 51 such cards chronicled the journey of a corps of boots from the Pacific Ocean to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. They wound up in a dump. (Los Angeles County Museum of Art)(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (68%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (68%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); BALLET (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FILM (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); 

PERSON: ELEANOR ANTIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



167 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
Trenton's Focus on Small Manufacturers Yields Jobs

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
AFTER operating in Trenton for a century, Hill Refrigeration shut the doors to its 850,000-square-foot plant three years ago, among the last of a long list of big manufacturers to leave the state capital.
Hill subsequently gave its 25-acre site, on Pennington Avenue between Prospect and Calhoun Streets, to the city, which, in turn, razed part of the collection of industrial hulks that made up the old plant. The city then carved up the remaining 424,300 square feet of space into eight condominiums and over the next two years sold them for $1 each to small manufacturers, who invested $3.9 million to spruce up their space and set up shop. The city also plans to build a 70,000-square-foot building on the site as an incubator for companies to do light manufacturing, assembly and research. 
 The city, together with a local developer, is also developing a modern industrial park on a long-vacant 11-acre site, once home to a pottery manufacturing plant, that it inherited in 1972. Four buildings, totaling 45,500 square feet of space, have been or will soon be built and three more buildings with 40,000 more square feet could ultimately be built on the site, just off Route 1 and Olden Avenue.
Trenton's goal is to shore up its remaining industrial base and give it a modest boost. Last year, for the first time in decades, six new manufacturers moved into the city, increasing the number of such companies left within its borders to 91 and adding 140 manufacturing jobs, to 2,620.
To be sure, the city will never be the industrial powerhouse dotted with steel fabricating and pottery plants it was through the late 1940's, when it was home to 50,000 manufacturing jobs. But these projects are intended to show that Trenton "is an attractive place for small and mid-size industries to locate," said James T. Harveson, acting director of the city's Department of Housing and Economic Development. "We're using our resources to go after that market niche," he added.
Trenton is not alone. The state is also providing financial assistance to help businesses, especially small manufacturers, survive and grow and to attract new ones. Under its Business Incentive Program, it returns to companies, through grants for up to a decade, as much as 80 percent of the state personal income tax revenue generated by each new employee.
Blinds to Go Inc., a Canadian manufacturer of window blinds and shades, took advantage of the program to build a 150,000-square-foot manufacturing, warehouse and distribution plant on Cedarbridge Avenue in Lakewood. It is the company's first plant in the United States.
The New Jersey's Economic Development Authority also offers below-market-rate loans for expansion, renovation or the purchase of equipment. Last year, the autonomous authority gave out $94 million in loans for 37 projects, up from $50 million for 19 projects in 1994.
STILL, New Jersey continues to lose manufacturing jobs. The number of such jobs fell to 480,200 last year from 482,000 in 1997 -- and almost a million at the peak in 1969, according to state figures.
But Caren S. Franzini, executive director of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, said, "While traditional smokestack manufacturing may still be declining, we are seeing more clean industries, or high-tech manufacturers, growing in the state." They include biotech and pharmaceutical concerns, along with makers of cosmetics, computers and communications equipment, she said, adding that these clean industries are helping to stabilize the state's manufacturing base.
David T. Houston, president of Colliers Houston & Company, a commercial brokerage in Teaneck, said, referring to the new industries, "That area of the manufacturing sector is doing well, with companies leasing modern industrial buildings." There is a ripple effect to older buildings, too, he said.
The overall space market is actually tightening, due largely to the state's strong economy, the lack of new construction and the conversion of many old industrial buildings to retail or housing. Mr. Houston said that demand has also increased from tenants for light assembly as well as warehouse and distribution space, the biggest user in the market. And even small local manufacturers, like specialty food and packaging concerns as well as printing and graphic arts concerns, are looking for space, he added.
Stephen Jenco, senior research analyst at Grubb & Ellis, another commercial brokerage, added that landlords were carving up big industrial buildings for multiple tenants, which has "helped lease the larger buildings and reduce the overall vacancy rate." His company puts the industrial vacancy rate for the 11-county northern and central New Jersey market at 4.4 percent for this year's second quarter, down from 5.1 percent a year earlier. In turn, average annual rental rates rose by 23 cents, to $5.03 a square foot.
As rents rise, so does interest from tenants in more suburban areas in the state's cities, which offer lower rents and some geographical and transportation advantages. Mark Sanders, executive vice president at the Harris & Lerman brokerage in Totowa, said that in cities like Paterson and Passaic, tenants "no longer are finding the choices they once had." While relatively low rents in cities are a driving force, state programs and local initiatives like tax abatements also help, he said.
That is the strategy at play at the two Trenton projects. "We realized that while there is a need for industrial space at a more competitive price than the suburbs, there were not enough incentives to draw tenants," said Mr. Harveson, "so we provided them."
One issue, he said, is that industrial sites are often contaminated. But a 1992 study for Trenton showed that if sites were made available, the city, with its labor pool and highway access, would draw small companies, from manufacturers to technology concerns.
Mr. Harveson said the redevelopment of the Hill and Route 1 sites was helped by the easing of the state's cleanup rules for industrially polluted land. "We also indemnified from liability" the tenant-owners and developer for the two properties, he said, noting that they are also getting tax breaks from the city.
THE Janzer Corporation, which makes porcelain mailboxes and house signs, was the last of the tenants to move to the Hill site. The company relocated in February from 9,000 square feet in Hulmeville, Pa., to 29,000 square feet space at Hill and invested $500,000 in its new space, including $30,000 for equipment, said Thomas Janzer, its president.
"It was the deal of the century," he said of the price. "It's still a bad neighborhood, but the city cleaned up the site, which is gated, and Trenton has nowhere to go but up."
Other tenants at the site, all of whom have to stay for a decade, include Trenton Corrugated, which makes boxes; Genpac, which produces corrugated packaging, and C.J. Auto Parts, a distributor.
Mr. Harveson said that though the taxes on the improvements the owners made are frozen for five years, the redevelopment generates $165,900 in taxes a year, which is the same as what Hill Refrigeration would have paid for a building of the same size.
The city is redeveloping the Route 1 property, called the Route 1 Commerce Center, with Faigle Realty and Development of Trenton. Mr. Harveson said the city sells pieces of the site and charges the developer a "payment in lieu of taxes," which is lower than the normal tax rate, allowing that savings to be passed on to tenants.
Jeffrey D. Faigle, who runs the company bearing his name, said the site offered an opportunity for a modern industrial park that "would attract local and statewide businesses that want to expand." Rents range from $2 to $6 a square foot.
Of the two buildings built so far, one with 11,000 square feet houses a candle manufacturer; the other, with 10,000 square feet, is occupied by a fish distributor and processor. Another 10,000-square-foot building is under way for Tektite Industries, which makes underwater lighting devices, Mr. Faigle said, while a fourth, with 14,500 square feet, is planned.
"But if the city was not involved," he said, "I probably would not have moved ahead."
Mr. Harveson said the city, using public funds, would build the incubator building over the next two and a half years and would like to acquire more land along Route 1 to encourage additional industrial development. The hope is that eventually the activity "will have a ripple effect," he said, paving the way for private investment to take over and feed on itself.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas Janzer, head of Janzer Corporation, which makes porcelain mailboxes. Company moved to former Hill Refrigeration site. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; TRENTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BLIND & SHADE MFG (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); WINDOW TREATMENT STORES (74%); TRENDS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



168 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 11; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF ORDER;
Relying on the Luck of the Draw

BYLINE: By DAVID BOUCHIER; E-mail address: liorder@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EVERYTHING I know about casino gambling comes from old James Bond movies. From a distance, I have admired the magnificent casino buildings at Monte Carlo and Baden-Baden, but never ventured into one. Casinos seemed to me places reserved for upper-class playboys with unlimited amounts of money to throw away, and beautiful women who are anxious to help them.
But, at the Port Jefferson ferry office, I picked up a flyer with a brazen invitation to come to the Mohegan Sun Casino in Connecticut. The fare of only $30, including the ferry and the bus, was impossible to resist. I purchased a ticket, and took my old tuxedo out of mothballs. James Bond always wore a tuxedo in the many casinos he visited. But my wife advised that, first time out, I should dress down a bit and rent a tuxedo in Connecticut if necessary. 
 My fellow players on the tour were not quite the reckless young aristocrats I had imagined. Before leaving, I thought that I might be too old for all this excitement. Now I began to worry that I might not be old enough. The majority of the group consisted of very senior citizens, and there was not a tuxedo anywhere in sight.
"Watch your step," said the driver kindly, as I climbed laboriously onto the bus at Bridgeport. Somehow, I had acquired arthritis on the ferry. After a long drive, we arrived on the casino grounds, excitement rising on the bus, and pacemakers working overtime. We were so deep in the woods that we might have been anywhere, or nowhere. Escape was obviously impossible.
The casino itself looks not unlike a prison or a mall, a huge blank building with no windows. We were greeted by Marlena, who gave us a $10 ticket to gamble on the Wheel of Fortune and another $10 voucher toward a meal thus (at least in theory), bringing the total cost of the trip down to $10. My plan was to use my voucher to win a couple of hundred dollars on the Wheel of Fortune, spend my winnings on some other games, and then retire to the bar with a martini (shaken, not stirred) until the bus came to take me away at 4:30.
Inside the entrance, most of the Long Island group vanished into the restrooms, and I continued alone into the mysterious interior. There was no Mohegan Sun, or any other kind of sun, to be seen inside the hall on this brilliant summer day, but a subdued twilight effect. The strangest thing was the noise, a continuous, penetrating tone about the key of A, which may be intended to generate a sense of tension and excitement. Nobody else seemed to notice.
The decor was meant to be evocative of American Indian themes: plastic rocks, animated wolves and abstract trees in different seasons. The visual effect was quite soothing. But this was canceled out by the overwhelming impact of 3,000 slot machines, all being played at once.
Obviously, in order to understand the casino experience, I had to play the slots. To get my stake, I took the $10 voucher to the Wheel of Fortune, placed it on number 13, and lost it immediately. This forced me to finance my own downfall, and I purchased a plastic bucket full of quarters. The machines were covered in words like "Slotopoly," "Bonus" "Wild," "Lucky," "Bonanza" and "Bar-Bar-Bar," but none of them had simple instructions. I chose one that seemed slightly less garish than the rest, and started feeding quarters into it. My bucketful vanished in what seemed like seconds. Even when I won something, I couldn't figure out why, although kindly ladies on each side took time out from their own efforts to explain about credits, bars and triple plays. After my second bucket of coins had been swallowed, I decided that these slot machines were for suckers, and I'd better get serious.
Between and around the slots were almost 200 gaming tables for poker, roulette, blackjack and more exotic games. Here the players were younger, the atmosphere more sociable, but the dedication just as intense.
My ignorance of these games was so obvious that I was quickly taken in hand by Judy, a member of the Long Island contingent, who obviously felt that I should never have been let out on my own. As we stood watching a baccarat game, the cards flashing out and vanishing like a conjuring trick, she explained the rules. As far as I could understand, this was a game of pure chance, depending on which cards happened to be dealt out. I was shocked, but somewhat encouraged. Anyone can win at a game of chance.
A man stood at the table with an impressive pile of chips. Assuming that the chips were worth 25 cents each, he was doing quite well.
"Can we join your game?" I asked.
"Sure," he said, "Do you know it's $100 a chip?"
Thank goodness the casino provided a selection of pleasant restaurants away from the racket of the floor. Taking my $10 meal ticket, I gambled on the fish of the day. It was excellent, and only about $9 above the usual price. But this is no place for people who believe in economy.
Fortified by lunch, I headed for the roulette wheels. I had always wanted to play roulette, which seems extraordinarily glamorous. In the movies, the hero always scoops up a fortune in chips, and is immediately surrounded by incredibly beautiful women in slinky dresses who want to give him financial advice. It didn't work quite like that for me. I purchased a cautious $20 worth of blue chips, and placed them on random numbers. My attention tended to drift to decor, the colorful outfits worn by the other players and reflections on the last days of Roman Empire. I was amazed when the croupier pushed a stack of chips back at me. Had I ordered these by mistake? No, it appeared that I had won them by placing one or more of my chips on the correct number. I tried to pay more attention to the game, listening for the cries of "Faites vos jeux, madames et messieurs," "Neuf a la banque" and "Rien non va plus," so familiar from a hundred movies. But the young female croupier said nothing at all, running the game in complete silence, with hand gestures. I suppose that sometimes they must get foreigners into the casino, from the remoter regions of Connecticut, or even Rhode Island, who are unable to speak French. The wheel spun, and my mind drifted off again. Next time I looked down, all my chips were gone and the croupier was giving me the old raised-eyebrow look. I gave her my best James Bond shrug and left.
I'm no economist, but I can't see how it helps the Long Island economy to send residents over to Connecticut with their pockets stuffed with money, and bring them back broke. If people are determined to throw their money away, why can't we have our own Long Island casino, down on the Shinnecock Reservation? The worst that can happen is that members of the Shinnecock tribe will get very rich, and the rest of us will get very poor. And that will be nothing but historical justice.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (P. C. Vey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); FERRIES (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); 

PERSON: JAMES BOND (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



169 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
A Major New Jersey Developer Gets Even Busier

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
STEVE POZYCKI certainly is busy these days. Already the designated developer of a 1.1-million-square-foot office building on the Hudson River in Hoboken, N.J., he plunged farther into the hot waterfront market last month by buying a 300,000-square-foot former toothpaste factory in Jersey City from Colgate-Palmolive for conversion to offices.
Meanwhile, his joint venture with the publicly traded Mack-Cali real estate investment trust has broken ground in Bernards Township near I-78 for a 135,000-square-foot office building to be called Liberty Corner Corporate Center. The joint venture partnership is also planning to put up a 100,000-square-foot building near the Princeton Junction train station. 
 And for a 300,000-square-foot two-building complex that was completed earlier this year in Princeton, he recently signed Merrill Lynch to a long-term lease for 232,000 square feet.
Mr. Pozycki is president of SJP Properties, one of the largest private developers and owners of commercial property in New Jersey, with 10 million square feet of Class A office properties in its portfolio. In a recent interview, he discussed his projects and his outlook for the office-property market in northern New Jersey and areas nearby.
Although SJP did a lot of building for corporate clients in the early 1990's, in the last year and a half it has completed 1.2 million square feet of speculative office space, with 70 percent of it already leased.
But Mr. Pozycki insists he is being conservative. "We do not see tremendous growth in office in most markets," he said. "It's not like the 80's when things exploded."
Instead, he said he is carefully choosing opportunities in the 17 or so submarkets in the northern part of the state. For instance, he said, Princeton was overdue for what developers like to call "new product."
"There hadn't been a new building in Princeton since the end of the 1980's," he said. "That's a significant amount of time with nothing being delivered." Merrill Lynch has said it will devote 44,000 square feet of the property to its retail brokerage operation, with the remaining space allocated to different divisions of the company.
In general, Mr. Pozycki said, the key to speculative office building is to have the right product on the market at the right time. "You have to work hard and you have to have luck," he said, adding, "having the right building at the right time helps luck."
The Jersey City development is a timing play, he said. The success of office developments there by the Lefrak Organization at Newport Office Center and Hartz Mountain Industries at 90 Hudson Street and the easy accessibility to lower Manhattan has made the Jersey City office market a desirable one.
BY purchasing an existing building and converting it, Mr. Pozycki said, he can have his development on the market before his rivals, who are building out of the ground. Indeed, for the sake of speed, he is abandoning earlier plans to add six stories to the structure.
SJP plans to strip the eight-story building back to its concrete walls, cut new elevator shafts, install new mechanical equipment and a new lobby and have it on the market by the first quarter of next year. "I'm not going to have any competition for a year and a half," he said, referring to the companies that are planning to erect new buildings, such as Lefrak's 800,000-square-foot Newport Office Center IV and Hartz's 70 Hudson Street.
He said his company had been looking at Jersey City for 10 years but did not find it attractive until the old industrial character of the city's waterfront had begun to change. Now that it clearly has, he said he expects economic development to spread down the waterfront through the rest of the city and Bayonne.
He expects corporate tenants to head north of Jersey City, as well, to Hoboken, where that city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey have an agreement with SJP for the company to build an office tower directly on the Hudson River adjacent to Hoboken Terminal. The project is still awaiting the signing of an anchor tenant, but Mr. Pozycki said the deal is "on the verge" of completion.
He said many of the people who work at the big financial services companies in Manhattan already live in Hoboken, which has become increasingly gentrified in recent years. "They don't like to hear it in New York, but Hoboken is the sixth borough," he said. The building, which will sit behind a park and pier being developed by the Port Authority, will have unusually large floors of up to 95,000 square feet, which may make it attractive to financial companies that need space for trading operations.
As enthusiastic as he is about New Jersey's old industrial cities along the Hudson, Mr. Pozycki is reserved about the largest city, Newark. Despite public and private efforts to prime economic recovery there, with the new performing arts center and new minor league baseball stadium, and with other sporting arenas being proposed, he cautioned the state to be careful about how much money it spends there to avoid driving up property values too quickly.
"Corporations move to a place like that because it is cheaper," he said. "If the state puts too much in there it could hurt the city's renaissance."
ONE of the statements SJP executives like to make is that they have never turned a building back to a lender because they lost control of its finances. As a result they have willing lenders, particularly corporate pension funds managed by Prudential. Mr. Pozycki said that in today's market, a developer has to get speculative projects started with his own money and then bring in a financial partner once it is well along, retaining an equity interest. As an example, he said, the building where SJP maintains its headquarters in Morris Corporate Park in Parsippany "is owned by Chrysler and me."
Another source of funds is the joint venture with Mack-Cali, which is also based in New Jersey. The two companies control enough land to build 15 million square feet of office space in the state. Mr. Pozycki said he expects to begin the second project with Mack-Cali, near the Princeton Junction train station in West Windsor, later this year.
He said that when the Bernards Township and Princeton Junction projects are completed, the Mack-Cali REIT would have the opportunity to add the buildings to its own portfolio or offer them to other investors.
Although he said he does not expect great growth in the office market, he said the long period when almost nothing was built left some tenants stuck in older buildings and looking to trade up. This, he said, is what justified new construction.
"Office users have evolved over time, and their requirements for power, air-conditioning and slab-to-slab heights have changed," he said. "There are buildings that are functionally obsolete. There is just not a lot of Class A quality in the 150 million square feet of offices in northern New Jersey."
In addition, the older office buildings often do not have the amenities, such as a cafeteria, gym and walking trails, that SJP provides in new properties.
SJP owns or controls enough land in New Jersey to develop seven million more square feet of offices. In an indication of how he views the future of the office market in the area, he has also has acquired land for five million square feet of development across the Delaware River in the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania.
"As you go west on Routes 78 and 80 you get into areas where the road network was built for farmers," he said. Commercial development in those areas will be difficult, he said.
The Lehigh Valley is not much more than a 40-minute drive from most commercial areas in New Jersey and has ample infrastructure from its past as an industrial powerhouse.
"It's a little early for office, but there is housing going up and the regional airport has been expanded," he said. "The Lehigh Valley is a market that's coming."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Pozycki, president of SJP Properties, which has 10 million square feet of Class A office properties in its portfolio. Last month he bought a 300,000-square-foot former toothpaste factory in Jersey City from Colgate-Palmolive for conversion to offices. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SJP PROPERTIES MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (57%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SJP PROPERTIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS MFG (72%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (72%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: POZYCKI, STEVE; HOLUSHA, JOHN STEVE POZYCKI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



170 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: LIPA Beats the Heat, but Barely

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
OF all the sighs of relief heard around the Island last week when cooler, drier air moved into the area and broke a 10-day heat wave, none were louder than those at the offices of the Long Island Power Authority.
In its first sustained hot-weather challenge since becoming Long Island's electric supplier, LIPA has been scavenging for every kilowatt in a summer of record-breaking temperatures and unprecedented demand for electricity. 
 So far, the authority has managed to scrape by, with the main blemish on its record the interruption of service to 100,000 of its one million customers during the extraordinary heat wave over the long July 4 weekend.
But the LIPA system is routinely stretched to its limits in periods of hot, humid weather when customers turn on more than a million air conditioners and send demand soaring. And weeks of summer are still ahead.
Over the long term, LIPA's limits are being tested by a rise in demand caused by the Island's booming economy and, ironically, by LIPA's own success in reducing electric rates that under its predecessor, the Long Island Lighting Company, had been the highest in the country, excluding Hawaii.
But one of LIPA's more pressing problems, at least for this summer, is a transformer failure that has reduced its ability to import electricity by 300 megawatts, or about the capacity of a mid-sized generating station.
The authority chairman, Richard M. Kessel, said last week that despite the reduced capacity the authority avoided the major loss-of-service problems that some regional utilities experienced during the heat wave in early July. Though the number of people who lost power on Long Island was comparable to the number blacked out in New York City and other areas served by Consolidated Edison, LIPA did not have the extended blackouts experienced by some Con Ed customers, who went up to three days without power.
Prior to July, LIPA's record demand was 4,208 megawatts set on July 22 last year, a figure already surpassed several times this summer. Average demand on cooler summer days ranges from 3,400 to 3,600 megawatts.
But on Tuesday, July 6, after the three-day Fourth of July weekend, electric demand on Long Island hit a record of 4,590 megawatts, uncomfortably close to the authority's maximum capacity, just over 5,100 megawatts. Mr. Kessel said then that the authority was "entering uncharted territory" where rolling blackouts might have to be ordered to avoid a system-wide failure.
Mr. Kessel said that luck and cooperation from Long Island businesses that voluntary curtailed electric use saved the severely overburdened and overheated electric system on July 6, and warned that although the authority also met high demand in other periods during the hottest July on record, more challenges lay ahead.
"There is no question that the system is stressed," Mr. Kessel said. "But we have done very well considering we lost that transformer and considering that we experienced the hottest July on record. Almost every other utility in the region has gone down at one point, and we haven't so far."
But Gordian Raacke, executive director of the Citizens Advisory Panel, a court-appointed watchdog for LIPA, took a different view of the authority's performance in July.
"Obviously they had some problems and some fairly extensive outages," he said. "Before the summer they assured us they were prepared to meet any kind of weather conditions. They ran fancy television commercials and expensive, full-page newspaper ads saying they were ready, and only a few weeks later customers found out it wasn't so."
Mr. Kessel acknowledged that "three or four times" power supplies had dipped below an 18 percent reserve power requirement set by the New York Power Pool, an association of utilities that coordinates the flow of power across the state.
As recently as July 27, LIPA's peak use reached 4,237 megawatts on a day when total capacity, which fluctuates from day to day, was 4,499. That use left only 6 percent reserve power; to maintain the 18 percent margin, peak demand on that day could not have exceeded 3,689 megawatts.
Projections of power shortages were often heard from the Long Island Lighting Company during the years it was building the never-opened, 800-megawatt Shoreham nuclear plant. In the 1970's, Lilco proposed building two additional nuclear plants in Jamesport, near Riverhead, with a combined capacity of more than 1,100 megawatts.
The Jamesport proposal was rejected by the state in 1980, though Lilco was given permission to build two coal-burning plants at the more than 500-acre Jamesport property. The plants were never built. Critics of Lilco, including Mr. Kessel, said the utility neglected its power plants and electric system during the 1970's and 1980's as it concentrated on bringing the Shoreham plant on line. But in 1989, after years of intense public opposition to the plant because of safety concerns, the Shoreham project was mothballed.
The aging, fossil fuel-powered plants in the Lilco system have since been repaired and upgraded to extend their useful life. Lilco had planned to retire some of the plants after the Shoreham reactor came on line.
Any chance that the broken transformer at the East Garden City substation can be replaced or fixed in time to meet summer demand appears to have collapsed. When authority officials reported on the transformer failure at a board meeting in May marking the authority's first anniversary, officials said they anticipated that a temporary replacement transformer would be in operation by this month.
Mr. Kessel said last week that the authority learned later that the replacement could not be completed until October, when power demand will be far lower. He said the authority then decided to scrap plans for a replacement and instead would wait for the failed transformer to be rebuilt.
The transformer is owned by the New York Power Authority, which is performing the repairs. It is one of two transformers at an East Garden City substation connected to a transmission cable that can carry 600 megawatts of electricity. The cable runs under Long island Sound to a substation in Westchester County.
Mr. Kessel said that the transformer outage reduced from 1,000 to 700 megawatts the amount of power that can be imported to Nassau and Suffolk.
Another underwater cable able to carry 286 megawatts from Norwalk, Conn., to Northport is also out of service because of equipment problems on the Connecticut side.
But the authority said the actual power loss was only 50 to 80 megawatts because the line shared land-based transmission lines used by the Northport generating station, a four-unit plant owned by Keyspan Energy that generates more than 1,500 megawatts.
Keyspan, a company formed by Brooklyn Union and the former Long Island Lighting Company, also owns and operates former Lilco generation stations at Port Jefferson, Island Park, Glenwood and Far Rockaway, as well as 42 smaller "peaking units" that operate on hotter summer days.
Keyspan sells the power to LIPA, and also operates the authority's electric transmission and distribution system under a contract with the authority. A Keyspan senior vice president, David J. Manning, said last week that Keyspan plants had been operating at or near capacity and were "flat out" on July 6, the day of record demand.
In addition to the Westchester-to-East Garden City cable, the authority also imports power on a 650-megawatt underwater cable from Yonkers to a substation in Port Washington. Other imports come over land lines in Queens linking the authority with Con Edison.
The New York Power Authority also supplies the authority with power from a 136-megawatt plant in Holtsville. Other supplies are available from municipal utilities in Freeport, Rockville Centre and Greenport, and from the American Ref-Fuel plant in East Garden City.
Mr. Kessel said that even when the broken transformer was back in service, electricity supplies would remain tight during the next two summers, underscoring a need for more import capacity, new generating plants on Long Island and more ambitious conservation programs.
He said that the growth rate for electricity demand, now more than 4 percent annually, also mandated expanded supplies.
The authority trustees voted last year to allow a subsidiary of Hydro Quebec, the Canadian hydroelectric giant, to proceed with a $1.9 million study for a new power cable to be in service in 2002. If approved, the cable would carry 600 megawatts of power 26 miles under Long Island Sound from Connecticut to the site of the former Shoreham nuclear power plant.
Last week a State Supreme Court justice, citing the need for more power, allowed the study to proceed despite a challenge from a competing bidder, AEP Resources Service Company, which contended that the authority should have accepted its lower bid.
In another step toward more power, the authority issued a request for proposals last month for three 75-megawatt power plants to be built on Long Island to come on line beginning in 2001.
Mr. Kessel said that one of the plants was likely to be built in Southampton or East Hampton, where second-home construction has caused electricity demand to spike more dramatically than anywhere else on Long Island.
Bert J. Cunningham, the authority vice president for communications, said that many of the new homes had central air-conditioning and other amenities that increased electricity use. "We have seen some high numbers, quite frankly," he said.
The authority has also allocated $32 million for each of the next five years for conservation programs, an amount that conservation advocates say is insufficient.
"The authority needs to do more than just some token, environmentally friendly-sounding power program," Mr. Raacke said "But there seems to be no concerted effort. Instead, the authority is following right in Lilco's footsteps and wants to build more polluting and environmentally harmful power plants."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A transformer failure at a LIPA substation reduced import capacity. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WEATHER (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (72%); UTILITY RATES (71%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (66%); 

PERSON: RICHARD M KESSEL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



171 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 11; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: FIRST PERSON;
Tuxedo and Martini Dreams

BYLINE: By DAVID BOUCHIER; David Bouchier, who lives in Wading River, N.Y., is an essayist and a music host at WSHU, an National Public Radio station in Fairfield.

 BODY:
EVERYTHING I know about casino gambling comes from old James Bond movies. From a distance, I have admired the magnificent casino buildings at Monte Carlo and Baden-Baden, but never ventured into one. Casinos seemed to me places reserved for upper-class playboys with unlimited amounts of money to throw away, and beautiful women who are anxious to help them.
But, at the Port Jefferson ferry office, I picked up a flier with a brazen invitation to come to the Mohegan Sun Casino in Connecticut. The fare of only $30, incuding the ferry and the bus, was impossible to resist. I purchased a ticket, and took my old tuxedo out of mothballs. James Bond always wore a tuxedo in the many casinos he visited. But my wife advised that, first time out, I should dress down a bit and rent a tuxedo in Connecticut if necessary. 
 My fellow players on the tour were not quite the reckless young aristocrats I had imagined. Before leaving, I thought that I might be too old for all this excitement. Now I began to worry that I might not be old enough. The majority of the group consisted of very elderly people, and there was not a tuxedo anywhere in sight.
"Watch your step," said the driver kindly, as I climbed laboriously on to the bus at Bridgeport. Somehow, I had acquired arthritis on the ferry. After a long drive, we arrived on the casino grounds, excitement rising on the bus, and pacemakers working overtime. We were so deep in the woods that we might have been anywhere, or nowhere. Escape was obviously impossible.
The casino itself looks not unlike a prison or a mall, a huge blank building with no windows. We were greeted by Marlena, who gave us a $10 ticket to gamble on the Wheel of Fortune and another $10 voucher towards a meal thus (at least in theory) bringing the total cost of the trip down to $10.
My plan was to use my voucher to win a couple of hundred dollars on the Wheel of Fortune, spend my winnings on some other games, and then retire to the bar with a martini (shaken, not stirred) until the bus came to take me away at 4:30.
Inside the entrance, most of the Long Island group vanished into the restrooms, and I continued alone into the mysterious interior of the place. There was no Mohegan Sun, or any other kind of sun, to be seen inside the hall on this brilliant summer day, but a subdued twilight zone effect. The strangest thing was the noise, a continuous, penetrating tone about the key of A, which may be intended to generate a sense of tension and excitement. Nobody else seemed to notice.
The decor was meant to be evocative of American Indian themes: plastic rocks, animated wolves and abstract trees in different seasons. The visual effect was quite soothing. But this was canceled out by the overwhelming impact of 3,000 slot machines, all being played at once.
Obviously, in order to understand the casino experience, I had to play the slots. To get my stake, I took the $10 voucher to the Wheel of Fortune, placed it on number 13, and lost it immediately. This forced me to finance my own downfall, and I purchased a plastic bucket full of quarters. The machines were covered in words like "Slotopoly," "Bonus" "Wild," "Lucky," "Bonanza" and "Bar-Bar-Bar," but none of them had simple instructions.
I chose one that seemed slightly less garish than the rest, and started feeding quarters into it. My bucketful vanished in what seemed like seconds. Even when I won something, I couldn't figure out why, although kindly ladies on each side took time out from their own efforts to explain credits, bars and triple plays. After my second bucket of coins had been swallowed, I decided that these slot machines were for suckers, and I'd better get serious.
Between and around the slots were almost 200 gaming tables for poker, roulette, blackjack and more exotic games. Here the players were younger, the atmosphere more sociable, but the dedication just as intense.
My ignorance of these games was so obvious that I was quickly taken in hand by Judy, a member of the Long Island contingent, who obviously felt that I should never have been let out on my own. As we stood watching a baccarat game, the cards flashing out and vanishing like a conjuring rite, she explained the rules to me. As far as I could understand, this was a game of pure chance, depending on which cards happened to be dealt out. I was shocked, but somewhat encouraged. Anyone can win at a game of chance.
A man stood at the table with an impressive pile of chips. Assuming that the chips were worth 25 cents each, he was doing quite well.
"Can we join your game?" I asked.
"Sure," he said, "Do you know it's $100 a chip?"
Thank goodness the casino provided a selection of pleasant restaurants away from the racket of the floor. Taking my $10 meal ticket, I gambled on the fish of the day. It was excellent, and only about $9 above the usual price. But this is no place for people who believe in economy.
Fortified by lunch, I headed for the roulette wheels. I had always wanted to play roulette, which seems extraordinarily glamorous.
In the movies, the hero always scoops up a fortune in chips, and is immediately surrounded by incredibly beautiful girls in slinky dresses who want to give him financial advice. It didn't work quite like that for me.
I purchased a cautious $20 worth of blue chips, and placed them on random numbers. My attention tended to drift to decor, the colorful outfits worn by the other players and reflections on the last days of Roman Empire. I was amazed when the croupier pushed a whole stack of chips back at me.
Had I ordered these by mistake? No, it appeared that I had won them by placing one or more of my chips on the correct number.
I tried to pay more attention to the game, listening for the cries of "Faites vos jeux, mesdames et messieurs," "Neuf a la banque" and "Rien non va plus," so familiar from a hundred movies.
But the young female croupier said nothing at all, running the game in complete silence, with hand gestures. I suppose that sometimes they must get foreigners into the casino, from the remoter regions of Connecticut, or even Rhode Island, who are unable to speak French.
The wheel spun, and my mind drifted off again. Next time I looked down, all my chips were gone and the croupier was giving me the old raised-eyebrow look.
I gave her my best James Bond shrug and left.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (P. C. Vey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); FERRIES (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); AGING (66%); 

PERSON: JAMES BOND (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



172 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: A Trip to Italy Without Leaving Home

BYLINE: By ALIX BOYLE

 BODY:
WHILE Italian opera pours out of a boombox, a group of 20 children paint their own interpretation of Botticelli's "Birth of Venus." Those who have finished their watercolors build a three-dimensional puzzle of a cathedral in Italy.
In the classrooms down the hall, boys and girls study Italian culture or learn to count in Italian. In North Haven this summer fourth-and fifth-grade students from across the region join each other to learn Italian language, culture and cooking in a free, two-week summer program. 
 "We want the children to feel as if they were dropped from a plane to a place called Camp Paesano," said Rita Leonardi, who is in charge of the camp, which was run this year in Chaplin as well as in North Haven.
Nana Asiedu, a 9-year-old of Orange, said he loves the program because it's so much fun he hardly notices that he's learning.
"We get to do a lot of exciting things, like taste Italian stuff like Italian ice," Nana said.
Caitlin MacDonald, 10, of New Haven, learned that ciao means hello or good-bye to friends, but that buon giorno and arrivederci should be used when speaking with adults. Caitlin also liked learning about Michaelangelo and Leonardo Da Vinci. Of the Mona Lisa, she said, "The way her eyes follow you is kind of mysterious."
Nana, however, was unimpressed with the Mona Lisa's famous smile. "It's a boring old smile," he said.
While the children are clearly enjoying the days filled with songs, games and art, all conducted in Italian, the program serves another purpose as well. It is part of a plan to bring children from the cities and the suburbs together for a multicultural experience. The program was a response to Sheff v. O'Neill, a court case in which a group of minority students and their parents sued the state for failing to provide equal educational opportunities. The ruling in 1996 came down in favor of the plaintiffs, and the state legislature passed a law to promote equal educational opportunity in its school districts.
Summer programs like Camp Paesano are just one of a number of initiatives to promote multicultural awareness and racial, social and economic balance among the state's schoolchildren.
"It's an interdistrict program open to all public school students in those towns, and it provides a chance for kids from different communities to get together and therefore break down walls of isolation," said Tom Murphy, spokesman for the State Department of Education, which supports the program.
"It uses state dollars to reach a state interest of equal educational opportunities and reducing isolation. It's a voluntary program that's locally designed."
In addition to Camp Paesano, there are about 45 state-funded summer programs on topics like marine biology, writing, and math and science. There are more children applying for the programs than the state can serve, Mr. Murphy said. For several years, Ms. Leonardi has run Camp Paesano in Chaplin, near the University of Connecticut, and this year was asked to start the program in North Haven under the auspices of Area Cooperative Educational Services or ACES.
Just two weeks before school ended, notices were sent to parents of public school students in 15 cities in New Haven and surrounding cities, including Ansonia, Bethany, Branford, Derby, Durham, East Haven, Middleford, Milford, Naugatuck, North Haven, Northford, Orange, Oxford, Shelton and Wallingford. Students were chosen by lottery for the half-day program in North Haven. Private school students and those who are home-schooled were not eligible to attend. Bus transportation is provided and there is a nurse on the premises at North Haven Middle School.
This year only a handful of minority students applied to the program, and through more extensive marketing next year, Ms. Leonardi hopes to attract more African-American and Hispanic children, she said. There are four teachers and three teacher's aides for 68 children. All the teachers speak Italian and instruct the children in the language. The children learn quickly. "What I teach here in two weeks is what I teach in high school in two months," said Susanna LaVorgna, a Camp Paesano instructor who teaches Italian and Spanish at Trumbull High School during the school year.
"In school, foreign language should start in kindergarten," said Ms. Leonardi, who was raised in Italy and teaches Italian at Brien McMahon High School in Norwalk. "Then the child will be more able to reproduce the sound like a native speaker. Why should children study a foreign language? It makes them smarter."
Basic survival in Italian is stressed. "What is your name?" "My name is" and "Where is the bathroom?" are commonly taught phrases. Children in the North Haven program also take a field trip to the Liuzzi cheese factory and there is an Italian festival at the end of camp.
A puppeteer treats the children to a show using pupi siciliani, the rod puppets that have been used in Italy for centuries. (There is a spot inside the puppet that holds wine, which spills out at the appropriate moment as blood and guts.)
"For me, teaching Italian is a passion," Ms. Leonardi said. "Finding teachers who are upbeat and enthusiastic, that's what makes the program click. We want the children to leave the program loving it."
Joedi Brown, a teacher's aide for the program, has learned about managing groups of children and has broadened her own knowledge of Italian by working at Camp Paesano. Ms. Brown, a 16-year-old senior at Wilbur Cross High School in New Haven, takes Italian for her high school language requirement and studied in Italy last year in the Sister Cities program, an exchange with students from Amalfi, Italy, an area near Naples. Her 8-year-old sister, Annabelle, is a Camp Paesano participant.
Ms. Brown, who is African-American, said she believes the program can be successful in integrating children from the suburbs with children from the city and thinks that suburban children need more exposure to children of other races and ethnic backgrounds. "We separate the kids into different groups so they're not with their friends, and they're forced to make new friends," Ms. Brown said, adding, "next year I'd like to see more people from New Haven and the other towns apply."
Although Camp Paesano North Haven has already concluded for this year, parents who live in the participating communities can call ACES in Hamden at (203) 407-4400 for information on the program for next summer.
The Camp Paesano in Chaplin runs through Aug. 13. The program is full, but to inquire about cancellations, call (860) 455-0707.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rita Leonardi holding a warrior puppet at Camp Paesano, a two-week summer program she runs in North Haven and Chaplin. Ms. Leonardi grew up in Italy. Learning Italian, top, is turned into a game at Camp Paesano: the child with the ball when the music stops is quizzed. Paul Cantore, above, paints his interpretation of Botticelli's "Birth of Venus" and other campers, below, piece together a three-dimensional puzzle. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%); LEGISLATION (50%); 

PERSON: RITA LEONARDI (71%); NANA ASIEDU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



173 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Q & A/Susan Bysiewicz;
'C.E.O.' of Company Worth $20 Million

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK

 BODY:
AS a candidate for the office of Secretary of the State, Susan Bysiewicz stressed her interest in the business side of the job. While certainly not all business, the office is more business-oriented than ever. Ms. Bysiewicz, a corporate lawyer, had strong opinions about where change was needed.
"We want to make that first point of contact into state government as positive and as productive as possible," she said. She takes pride in making her office accessible and efficient for Connecticut's business and legal community. 
 Ms. Bysiewicz, 37, grew up on her grandparents' Middletown farm. She proudly speaks of her Polish and Greek heritage and displays a red and white Polish flag in her office beside the American flag. "That's because I am the first Polish-American ever elected to statewide constitutional office in Connecticut," she said. She lightheartedly said that her heritage gives her great food as well as a work ethic and quickly adds "an appreciation for learning." She is a graduate of Yale University and Duke University Law School.
 She lives in Middletown with her husband, David H. Donaldson, and their three children, Ava, 7, Leyna, 5 and Tristan, 3. She credits her mother-in-law and husband with creating the support systems that make it possible for her to do the demanding work of the Secretary of the State.
"I like to say the Secretary of the State is the C.E.O. of a $20 million company because our commercial recording division generates about $20 million for the general fund," Ms. Bysiewicz said. Recently, she discussed her job as Secretary of the State and her emphasis on the business side of her responsibilities. Following are excerpts from that conversation:
Q. In what ways is the Secretary of the State's office involved with Connecticut business?
 A. There are two chief responsibilities of the Secretary's office. One is to run the elections in the State of Connecticut to make sure they run fairly and efficiently because the Secretary is the chief election official. The Secretary of the State is also the chief business registrar for the State of Connecticut. Our office registers over 100,000 corporations in the state. It's a matter of state law. We also register thousands of limited-liability companies and we register limited partnerships.
 You may not begin your business in the State of Connecticut unless you register with us first. It's a very important function. You want businesses to be legitimate and to know where they are located.
 Q. What did you do as a business lawyer with this office?
 A. I would register corporations for my clients and frequently dealt with the commercial recording division because liens on personal property are all filed in the Secretary of the State's Office. At the time that I was practicing in the late 80's there was a problem. There was a backlog. Liens were not being filed on a timely basis. I remember as a young attorney going to the Commercial Recording Division and seeing plastic tubs on the floor filled with U.C.C. statements, which are lien filings.
 We don't have a backlog now. One of our messages to the business and legal community is that we are running smoothly and efficiently.
 Q. Are there other changes in that procedure?
 A. One of the things I used to wish for when I was practicing business law was to have information available on computer. By September we will have all of the state's business information available on the Internet for free to people in the business and legal community. Now what happens is paralegals or attorneys who seek this information have to come to the office or pay a private service to get the information.
 Q. So you are increasing the use of computerized systems in your office?
 A. In this past legislative session, which ended in June, an electronic commerce bill was passed. That means businesses will be able to sign binding contracts over the Internet in Connecticut. It also means clients of our office will be able to send all of their business filings electronically. It's much more efficient. Our agency would like to be a leader in the state in making technology more accessible and easier to deal with our office.
 Trade on the Internet is becoming very widespread. The problem is our laws have not caught up with electronic commerce. We just passed a bill in the Connecticut legislature to allow binding contracts to be signed over the Internet. Until that legislation was passed, parties could sign a contract but they couldn't go to court and sue on it. Therefore people weren't willing to send us business documents electronically because our state courts didn't recognize electronic signatures. We are pleased that it was passed. This will allow the people who use our office to send us their business documents electronically.
 Q. Would you call yourself a Connecticut business booster?
 A. One of the things I was hoping to do in the Secretary of the State's Office when I came was to provide businesses with more information about business opportunities in Connecticut. That's both to businesses that are here already and also to businesses that are not located here, but might be interested in coming.
For instance, there are businesses who have part of their operation here and are registered here, and we have a new pamphlet that will let them know what the advantages of moving other factories or offices here are. We have a great location between Boston and New York, a highly educated work force and Connecticut is a beautiful place to live. Connecticut has great schools, which is one of the main reasons why they come.
 Q. Do you envision overseas trading becoming a more significant part of Connecticut economic life?
 A. Many medium and small businesses in Connecticut have not entered the international marketplace. Those are the companies creating 80 percent of the new jobs. If we are growing in the export area, it means we are expanding our job base in Connecticut. That's one of the reasons why we did a trade seminar in May to let people know about export opportunities in Eastern Europe. We had over 100 small- and medium-sized businesses that attended to listen to information about opportunities in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. We are also planning on doing future forums and seminars. We are planning one in New Haven specifically geared toward women and minorities in early fall.
 
The Web site for the office of the Secretary of the State: www.state.ct.us/sots.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Bysiewicz, a corporate lawyer, is the Secretary of the State. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); ETHICS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (64%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (60%); 

PERSON: SUSAN BYSIEWICZ (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



174 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2921 words

HEADLINE: For Architects, It's a Boom Town

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
FRESHLY recruited from a corporate colossus, the new president strides into a rapidly growing company in search of even higher profits, untapped markets and maybe an acquisition or two.
The description could fit many Wall Street firms. But the firm in question is Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. You can easily spot its architects, planners and interior designers. They're the ones dressed completely in black among all those navy blue and charcoal gray suits in the canyons of the financial district. 
 That Skidmore now does business from 14 Wall Street, on a crossroads it shares with the New York Stock Exchange and J. P. Morgan, is in one sense coincidental. (The firm just needed affordable space.) In another sense, it is an apt metaphor for the state of the profession at the moment. Like Wall Street, architecture is booming.
Five years ago, Skidmore had 200 employees in New York, down from a peak of 425 in 1988. The firm moved downtown last October into space designed for up to 325 employees. There are now 340.
Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, by some rankings the largest architectural firm in America, has doubled the size of its New York office since 1994, from 50 to 100 employees. So has Gensler, another national giant, whose New York office has grown from 169 to 334 employees in the past five years. The ranks at H L W International's New York office have risen from 215 to 310 in the same period.
Good fortune is also visiting small firms. Wendy Evans Joseph has watched her practice at 500 Park Avenue grow from one person in 1994 to six today. "I could have 20 people, there's so much work right now," she said. Her projects include a V-shaped, cable-stayed pedestrian bridge over East 63d Street for Rockefeller University and, in Dallas, the Women's Museum: An Institute for the Future.
Roberta Washington, too, has as much work as she can handle in her 10-person office at 271 West 125th Street. But she depends on government agencies and nonprofit institutions for jobs: a new station for the Franklin Avenue shuttle in Brooklyn, four clinics for the Interfaith Medical Center in Brooklyn, 27 homes in central Harlem, two schools in New Haven.
"I'm not the only black architect whose majority of work is public work," she said. "It goes back to the root of how potential clients select architects. A lot of it has to do with who you know."
"There are very few of us who can say we're benefiting from the boom," Ms. Washington said. "It would be great to participate and not just see it through the glass." Because salary levels have risen faster than fees, she cannot afford the extra staff she needs and so finds herself working longer hours.
To judge from help-wanted advertising, the demand for architects is greater than it has been in a decade. In July 1989, The New York Times ran an average of 42 ads for architectural positions in its Sunday classified section. In July 1994, with the real estate market in tatters, the average was 25 ads. Last month, it was 79.
Fueling the demand is the scarcity of experienced architects in their late 30's and early 40's. "There is a missing generation," said David M. Childs, the chairman designate of Skidmore. Despairing of their prospects earlier this decade, they either got out of architecture or never got into it.
"We were taking jobs that smaller firms would have taken," recalled A. Eugene Kohn, a founding principal of Kohn Pedersen Fox. "Smaller firms were taking jobs that new firms might have taken. And new people were saying, 'Forget it.' "
"Where did they go?" asked Walter A. Hunt Jr., a managing principal of Gensler. "Maybe they're running a bed-and-breakfast in Vermont. Maybe they're fishing." It is widely supposed that those embryonic architects wound up in other parts of the country or related fields like construction management and real estate development.
Their absence is keenly felt. "What's generally available is a zero- to 8-year experience level," said Carl W. Ordemann, the managing principal of the New York office of Perkins & Will. "Then there's a substantial gap in the 8- to 15-year level. Every office, across the board, is suffering from that gap. You can't do jobs as well without those people as part of the team."
The scarcity of experienced architects allows some of them to command salaries in the range of $60,000 to $70,000 -- a small fortune for architectural staffers.
"It's a good thing for the profession at one level," said Kenneth H. Drucker, director of design and senior principal at the New York office of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, "but at another level, the fees were lowered to remain competitive and they haven't rebounded. They've stayed low, salaries have risen and headhunters are pursuing your professional staff."
THOMAS BALSLEY, a landscape architect who designed Gantry Plaza State Park on the Queens waterfront, would not want to return to the old days. "If anyone complains about working weekends," he said, "I'll show them the help wanted ads from eight years ago."
Nonetheless, he noted that higher salaries and the cost of computer equipment and programs had pushed up operating costs. "We're not even close to being as profitable as we were in the 80's," Mr. Balsley said.
Adding to Mr. Balsley's concerns are signs that the Flatiron district, where he and many other architects have offices, may be growing too popular -- and too pricey. He would love to stay in 119 Fifth Avenue, at 19th Street, he said, but "with all the I.P.O. brats running around with million-dollar bills hanging out of their pockets, landlords won't even negotiate."
Costas Kondylis & Associates is preparing to leave 3 West 18th Street in October for new quarters at 31 West 27th Street.
Mr. Kondylis is designing Trump World Tower at the east end of 47th Street and Larry Silverstein's River Place complex at the west end of 42d Street. His office has grown from 28 to 64 people since 1994. "The rents in the Flatiron district have gone up," Mr. Kondylis said. "So the new area for architects is the West 20's."
Overall, however, the movement over time has been downtown. The highest concentration of membership in the American Institute of Architects is in ZIP code 10003 around Union Square, which takes in parts of Ladies' Mile, the Flatiron district, Greenwich Village and the East Village.
"More than 50 percent of our firms are now below Union Square," said Rolf Ohlhausen, the immediate past president of the New York chapter of the A.I.A.
Another area that architects are discovering is the financial district. Nearing the end of its lease in 600 Madison Avenue, at 58th Street, Pei Cobb Freed & Partners is scouting for new quarters and has cast its net as far downtown as Wall Street. "Many buildings that were considered Class B have been upgraded," said George H. Miller, the managing partner. "They present what we believe to be the best value in today's market for the architectural community."
Gensler, at 1 Rockefeller Plaza, has a "Wall Street studio" -- 25 people in 1 Liberty Plaza at Broadway and Liberty Street -- to serve financial institutions like J. P. Morgan and the Federal Reserve Bank.
Skidmore moved 10 months ago to the former Bankers Trust Company Building at Wall and Nassau Streets, a landmark completed in 1912 and expanded in 1933, topped by a stepped pyramid like the ancient Greek Mausoleum at Halicarnassus.
Skidmore is one of the largest firms in New York, if not the largest. And it probably has the highest public profile, with commissions that include the new Pennsylvania Station, the new International Air Terminal at Kennedy International Airport, the new New York Stock Exchange, the Columbus Centre complex at Columbus Circle that includes Time Warner headquarters, Bear Stearns headquarters on Madison Avenue and one of the new Times Square towers.
As its lease neared an end at the old Daily News Building, 220 East 42d Street, Skidmore began a search for new space. "Where we really wanted to be was the Hudson Street corridor or Ladies' Mile but there was nothing available in those two areas," said T. J. Gottesdiener, a partner.
The firm was in an awkward position. "We're not big enough to threaten the Mayor that we're going to move to New Jersey," Mr. Childs said, "but we're also not in the 3,000- to 4,000-square-foot range."
After looking as far afield as Long Island City, Queens, Mr. Gottesdiener settled on 14 Wall Street as meeting three key criteria: floors as large as possible (Skidmore has 72,000 square feet on three floors); a safe, convenient location and "rents we could sustain when the market turned" -- low $20's a square foot annually, compared with the high $20's on 42d Street.
In some ways, lower Manhattan is quite accessible. Subway lines converge there and city agencies are within walking distance. On the other hand, bulky architectural models have to be carted around much more, since clients in mid-Manhattan are less likely to visit the Skidmore office in person. "We spend more time shlepping than we did before," Mr. Childs allowed.
Those who do show up at the 24th floor of 14 Wall Street find a much different Skidmore office than the one on 42d Street, which affected a lavish corporate look, with a lobby paved in travertine and framed by colossal stainless steel columns.
Bare concrete floors run through the austere new space, with its plywood cubicles for design partners, spidery-looking Aeron chairs and a factory-like steel staircase linking display galleries that parallel the computer-filled drafting rooms.
"We wanted to create a laboratory to allow our practice to happen," said Roger F. Duffy Jr., a design partner. "We wanted our work to speak for itself."
Having settled into its new quarters, Skidmore shook itself up again in June when it named an outsider, both to the firm and the profession, as its first president.
Through a management recruiter, the partners found Kenneth C. Brown, 47, a corporate vice president of the General Electric Company and president of GE Southeast Asia, in Singapore. He holds a degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell and a degree in engineering science and economics from Oxford. He joined General Electric in 1992 after a career that included the Solar Energy Research Institute in Golden, Colo., and Price Waterhouse.
He is to manage business operations and assist the partners in strategic planning. "They still didn't feel as competent as they should be -- or even wanted to be -- in managing the business affairs of the firm," Mr. Brown said.
A limited liability partnership founded in 1936, Skidmore elected Mr. Childs its first chief executive in 1991, followed by Adrian D. Smith of Chicago and John H. Winkler of New York. Mr. Childs will assume the new position of chairman in October.
With worldwide revenues of $89 million in 1998, Skidmore ranked 10th among architects and architect-engineers in Engineering News-Record's list of top design firms. (Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum was first in the architectural field, with revenues of $295 million. It has 1,900 employees worldwide.)
"This is raw material waiting to be formed into a great new business proposition," Mr. Brown said. "I wouldn't mind being No. 1 or No. 2 in size of revenues, but my first goal is to make sure that we're No. 1 in terms of recognition, where anywhere in the world, when people think about taking on a complicated project, the first name that comes to mind is S.O.M."
"From every partner," Mr. Brown said, "I've heard three or four great ideas about new ways to leverage the influence of this firm." His goals include increasing profitability -- "It could be better but it's not dismal" -- and productivity.
"It doesn't have to be done in ax-and-saw fashion," he said. "Very clear definitions of customer requirements and diligent planning will cut out a lot of the rework and mistaken direction that sometimes occurs."
As a veteran of overseas operations, Mr. Brown would also like to see Skidmore fortify its international business, which accounted for 35 percent of revenues last year. While the firm is strong in Asia and the Middle East, it has much less of a presence in Western Europe and Latin America. "I don't see how you can call yourself global without seeing that, long term, half of your work is going to be outside the United States," he said.
To get a toehold in other markets, Skidmore might even acquire firms. "I don't think you ought to discard it as a possibility," Mr. Brown said.
Mergers and acquisitions may not exactly be sweeping the architectural profession, but there is at least one noteworthy prospective union this summer, as Alan Lapidus takes steps to ally his specialty hotel practice with Perkins & Will, which is itself under the umbrella of Dar Al-Handasah Consultants (Shair & Partners) of Cairo.
Mr. Lapidus, designer of the curvy, plum-colored Crowne Plaza in Times Square and the new Holiday Inn Wall Street District, carries on a family architectural tradition. His father, Morris, designed the swooping, jet-set-modern Fontainebleau in Miami Beach and the Americana in Manhattan, now the Sheraton New York.
The younger Mr. Lapidus said he hoped a merger would allow him to exploit his expertise in hotel planning by taking advantage of Perkins & Will's "horsepower."
"I needed a firm that does good construction documents and has a good design sense, where I could input all of my hotel knowledge," Mr. Lapidus said, "even if it meant not being glitzy, which would deprive me of my name of honor and make me a shame unto my father."
For Perkins & Will, the addition of the Lapidus team would "spread our footing" in the hotel field, Mr. Ordemann said.
Diversification is the name of the game, as firms try to devise strategies that will soften the blow when the market turns around again -- as it surely will.
"Our industry is so cyclical," said Belmont Freeman, who runs a six-architect practice at 110 West 40th Street. "On the upturns, you're able to accumulate money you use to pay off the debt that you accumulated in the bad times."
Last month, he hired an office manager and bookkeeper. "That's a significant turning point," he said. "We've gotten so busy that I ended up doing the administrative work while the other architects on my staff were doing the fun stuff."
Like principals in firms that are many times larger, Mr. Freeman is diversifying his practice. His jobs include a new seven-story apartment building on Eighth Street, east of Tompkins Square; the conversion of an East 73d Street town house into apartments; video and sound studios on lower Broadway; interior projects at three Columbia University graduate schools, and a residential compound in Langley, Va.
"I've got all the desks in my office filled for the first time," Mr. Freeman said. But that sight does not erase vivid memories of having one employee and subletting half his space. "Only as recently as last December did I take the gamble of renewing my lease for five years," he said. "My new worry is: one more job and I may have to expand."
 
A.I.A. Gets New Home, and New Goals
 Not long ago, many members of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects were scrambling to pay their own rent. Now, times are flush enough that they have raised $1.25 million among themselves to buy a large storefront space at 534 La Guardia Place, in Greenwich Village. They intend to raise $1.5 million more to turn it into a showplace headquarters that will help raise the chapter's profile.
"This is not just for architecture, this is for public engagement," said Walter A. Hunt Jr. of Gensler, the president of the chapter. The A.I.A. is a 142-year-old professional organization based in Washington. Its New York chapter represents nearly 70 percent of the registered architects in Manhattan.
 Wendy Evans Joseph, who will succeed Mr. Hunt in January, believes this is an opportune moment for architects to acknowledge their social responsibility. "Especially when times are good," she said, "we have to watch very carefully what we're doing and not just satisfy the client who pays us but the people who are not paying us; who are walking by, and under the shadows and living next door to what we're doing."
She suggested that architects could play a role in solving the public school construction crisis. "There is no excuse for bricks to be falling on kids' heads," Ms. Joseph said.
Rolf Ohlhausen, of Ohlhausen DuBois, the immediate past president, conceded that the chapter had "not always been really visible to the public or many of our members." The A.I.A. and its affiliate, the New York Foundation for Architecture, are tucked among furniture showrooms in the New York Design Center, 200 Lexington Avenue, between 32d and 33d Streets.
The 11,000-square-foot space on La Guardia Place, at street level and two floors below, will accommodate a gallery and meeting room. Mr. Hunt said there would be a design competition and that construction might begin next spring.
The move downtown was prompted in part by Mr. Ohlhausen's geographic study of A.I.A. membership, which is centered around Union Square in ZIP code 10003. The new headquarters will be immediately to the south in 10012, another architecturally populous ZIP code. "Most of us cannot afford midtown rents," Mr. Ohlhausen said. "The migration south has to do with economics and the rediscovery of older buildings." His own office is at 14 East Fourth Street, New York, N.Y. 10012.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A gallery in the new Skidmore, Owings & Merrill office at 14 Wall Street. The model is of the Warburg Dillon Read complex in Stamford, Conn.
(Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Wendy Evans Joseph with design for Women's Museum in Dallas. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Kenneth C. Brown, the president of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, top firm's offices at 14 Wall Street. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Time); The American Institute of Architects has purchased a storefront space for its chapter headquarters at 534 La Guardia Place, across from a statue of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia by Neil Estern. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map: "Where the Architects Are" -- Members of the American Institute of Architects, by ZIP code. Map of Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); HOK GROUP INC (55%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; SHORTAGES; WAGES AND SALARIES ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



175 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: THE ARTS;
Urban Renewal With a Difference: At Last, a Cultural Oasis in Trenton

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
THE view from outside the Urban Word Cafe shows the contrasts of a city struggling to recreate itself. On one side, abandoned buildings rot, flanked by overgrown weeds and peeling billboards. But across the street, construction of a $60 million sports arena, on the site of an iron and steel plant that has been closed since 1987, is nearly complete.
Inside the Urban Word, another kind of renewal springs. Open since late March as part of a half-completed redevelopment project comprising four adjacent buildings on South Broad Street, the cafe acts as a magnet for creative types, offering a nightly schedule of music, poetry and films in a cozy space lined with paintings by local artists. 
 On a recent Friday night, patrons mingled and munched on sandwiches while listening to Ball in the House, an a cappella group of wholesome young men from Boston. (Their motto: "Six guys, six mouths, that's it.") Between sets, a gaggle of teen-age girls surrounded the singers, soliciting hugs and autographs, while the adults -- the usual Urban Word clientele -- wandered between the cafe's two red-brick rooms, checking the bulletin boards for notices of concerts and art exhibitions and studying the paintings on the wall, a series of images of boxers at a local gym.
For Roland Pott, the manager of the Urban Word and a co-founder of Trenton Makes, the development company that owns the buildings, the scene is exactly what he had hoped for when he began the project three years ago with two friends, David Henderson and John Hatch, both architects.
"We all live in Mill Hill and downtown Trenton, and we felt there was something missing," Mr. Pott said. "There was a real need for a community-oriented place for people to meet and socialize, and for artists to express themselves. A place where people could gather around the arts."
Mr. Pott, 26, grew up in New York City and moved to Trenton to become a teacher after graduating from Reed College in Portland, Ore. Soon he quit teaching. After meeting Mr. Henderson and Mr. Hatch, he threw himself into the business of building for the arts' sake.
The men spent two years canvassing for money. They hit up friends, family and people in the neighborhood -- each of whom became shareholders in Trenton Makes, named after the city's slogan, "Trenton makes, the world takes" -- before getting the $130,000 needed to purchase the four decrepit buildings near Route 129. Eventually, with help from the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority and the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, Trenton Makes secured a bank loan to begin construction. In two months, the Urban Word Cafe was open for business, along with the Mind and Soul Bookstore in the rear of the complex.
The cafe and the bookstore are just the beginning. By the time the Mercer County Arena across the street opens in October, Mr. Pott and his partners hope to complete the final phases of the project: two remaining buildings next door to the cafe are to be converted into a 150-seat theater and performance space with its own pub. There will also be studio space for artists upstairs and retail space that Mr. Pott hopes will attract "a record store or a funky clothing store or an art gallery or something like that."
Patrons at the Urban Word, fed up with a capital city that closes down at 6 P.M. and lacks even a movie theater, expressed one sentiment in common: relief.
"It's nice that Trenton is starting to blossom a little," said Michael Berry, a Trenton resident on a rare night out with his wife, who works in Manhattan. "It's been such a desolate place for decades. This is an example of Trenton's rebirth to community, which it lost decades ago."
One patron, Gay Pearson, a jazz pianist who lives down the street, just booked a gig at the cafe and sees another benefit. "I'm so grateful for a smoke-free place," she said. "And they're doing well in spite of that -- or maybe because of it."
The cafe has sparked a small artistic renaissance in Trenton by giving local artists a place to gather and perform. And there has been no shortage of talent, said Mr. Pott, who calls himself an "artist in remission" because his duties at the cafe and in Trenton Makes have caused him to shelve his poetry and filmmaking interests.
"People usually have to go to New York or Philadelphia to find this sort of thing," he said. "They're really happy there's a place right around the corner from Princeton or Hamilton or Pennington or some of the other towns, a place right just a hop, skip and a jump away and get the same quality of artistic, hip experience."
 
THE URBAN WORD CAFE
449 South Broad Street, Trenton
Hours: Daily, 11 A.M. to 1 A.M. Tomorrow; "Fuzion," a multi-media D.J. event, at 9 P.M. Tuesday: open mike at 8:30 P.M. Wednesday: film, John Sayles's "City of Hope," at 9 P.M. Thursday: jazz with the John Bianculli Trio at 8 P.M. Friday: "Lyrical Riot," a spoken-word event with Demetrius tha Poet and Barbara Horne, at 8:30 P.M. Saturday: John Flynn, singer and songwriter, at 9 P.M.
(609)989-7777
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The a cappella group Ball in the House performing at the Urban Word Cafe. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (67%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (67%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PAINTING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); MUSIC (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); SPORTS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); 

PERSON: TRENTON HOURS (94%); ROLAND POTT (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



176 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
For Battered Women, An Avid Advocate 'To Save the World'

BYLINE: By MARY ANN CASTRONOVO FUSCO

DATELINE: SHORT HILLS

 BODY:
AT the age of 72 and financially secure with her children on their own, Evelyn Jacobs Ortner could easily choose the genteel suburban life of country clubbing and shopping.
Instead, over the last decade, Mrs. Ortner has chosen to run the Unity Group Inc., a nonprofit advocacy organization for battered women and their dependent children, which she founded. The group, a United Way member agency, has aided hundreds of battered women around the country, free of charge, without taking government funds or paying salaries. 
 "I don't need a salary," Mrs. Ortner said in an interview at her elegant but unpretentious home. "I live perfectly comfortably. Why should I take any money away from a project? Volunteerism is, to me, a very important thing, and everybody who is able to do it should do it."
She says volunteerism was part of her upbringing. At about age 8, she said, she organized a group of children, which she called the Charity Girls, to perform plays, sing and dance for the residents of the Daughters of Israel Home for the Aged in Newark.
She went on to attend the University of Vermont but transferred to the University of Pennsylvania when her husband began teaching there. She received a master's degree from Drew University in Madison.
Over the years she raised two children -- Peter, now 41 and a photographer, and Nicole, 39, an ice skating instructor.
In 1990, Mrs. Ortner started Unity "with three people and $15," she recalled. Today the organization has a 10-member board and hundreds of supporters who pay an annual $25 membership fee to help victims of domestic violence find counseling, legal, medical and other services. Its support group for battered women, run by formerly battered women, meets the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month at the Millburn Public Library.
Membership fees, income from a thrift shop in downtown Union, grants, donations from private businesses and fund-raisers like the $60-a-person cocktail party and silent auction at the Short Hills Hilton last March helped the group purchase its own shelter recently. A spacious house in suburban Essex County, painted by volunteers and decorated in part with furnishings donated by the Short Hills Hilton, it is expected to open around Labor Day.
"From nothing we now pay rent in a shop, we purchased a house that cost over $350,000, we have a mortgage," Mrs. Ortner said. "We meet every single need that a battered woman has. Prior to having our shelter we would have to filter her out to the system."
The Unity Group's founding philosophy forbids members to be compensated for their work. But the organization recently hired a lawyer to direct the new shelter and to take over the referral work and myriad follow-up calls necessary to get victims the help they need -- calls that Mrs. Ortner has been handling at all hours from an office in her home.
Her husband of 52 years, Robert, a retired economist, said: "She has enormous passion for what she's doing, and I guess even a great deal of momentum into it. She has hold of something. To some extent, it may have hold of her, which is my only concern."
His wife's soft, green eyes filled with tears in response to the words of her husband, whom she has known since she was a 14-year-old high school student.
To relieve the stress of her work, she and her husband like to go dancing at the Short Hills Hilton on Saturday nights; the jitterbug, she said, is a favorite.
But frequently, she is consumed by her work. In a voice charged with emotion, Mrs. Ortner said that in this country, a woman is battered every nine seconds. "During the period of the Vietnam War, we lost about 55,000 men and women," she said. "During that same period, we lost 55,000 battered women. They're dead."
According to the New Jersey State Police, in 1997 -- the last year for which information was available -- there were 82,627 domestic violence offenses reported by the police in the state, down 3 percent from 1996, when there were 85,018. But there were 50 murders resulting from domestic violence in 1997, up 16 percent from the 43 murders committed in 1996.
Mrs. Ortner became aware of the enormity of the problem of domestic violence in the 1980's, while working as an advisor and speechwriter for Margaret Heckler, Secretary of the Federal Department of Health and Human Services in the Reagan Administration. She and her husband, then senior vice president at the Bank of New York, moved to Washington when he was asked to be under secretary for economic affairs at the Commerce Department.
"Supposedly we were only going to be down for a year, but we stayed for eight years -- for both Administrations and some of the transition to the Bush Administration," recalled Mrs. Ortner, who also represented the Department of Health and Human Services on women's issues and consumer affairs at the White House.
When she returned to New Jersey, she learned that her suburban area had virtually no centers to support victims of domestic violence. "People don't want to look at domestic violence because they don't want to admit that it exists," she said. To those who think abuse doesn't occur in exclusive neighborhoods, she replies, "Phooey."
Upscale women, she contends, often have a difficult time leaving their abusers because they're dependent on an upper-class life style. They will often say, "Where am I going to get this kind of money?" she said. "I don't want to leave the country club, I want my children to go to Harvard. How can I exist in a little garden apartment?"
She calls the domestic violence dynamic "a cult of one."
The methods that cults use to coerce submission from their members are the same ones a batterer uses in an abusive household, reasons Mrs. Ortner. "We're looking at mind control, we're looking at total isolation, we're looking at terrible punishments," she said.
The batterer, who typically has grown up in an abusive household, she said, "is intent to control another human being, and the means to it, first and foremost, is mind control." Claiming to be the only one who truly loves her, an abusive husband will often isolate his wife from friends and family members.
"She could be virtually on the same street with her family, but she never sees them again," said Mrs. Ortner. Tactics include alternating indulgences with threats and beatings, and enforcing trivial demands to develop a habit of compliance in an atmosphere of anxiety and hopelessness.
Although he may publicly compliment his wife and display affection so he is outwardly perceived as a good guy, "a batterer knows to batter between here and here," said Mrs. Ortner, motioning between her collarbone and thigh. "The point of that is no bruises should show."
The official response to domestic violence cases is often, "When she's ready, she'll leave," said Mrs. Ortner, adding, "In a casket?"
As for the batterers, she continued, they always say: "You made me do it. If you had just done what I'd asked you to do, this never would have happened. Everything is your fault."
According to Mrs. Ortner, "Customarily, when there are children and he begins to molest or abuse the children, that's when this woman will get motivated, not to save herself, but to save the children."
Although she doesn't keep statistics on her "clients," as she calls the women she helps, she estimates that "95 percent of my stories are success stories," meaning that the women have left their abusive husbands and remade a life for themselves and their children. Some women, typically 50 and older and overwhelmed by the prospect of starting over, have returned to their abusers, she admitted. "I call these my lost people," she said.
"A battered woman doesn't stay there willingly," she continued. "She has been mind-controlled and brainwashed. I can't say that emphatically enough."
Mrs. Ortner feels so strongly about the issue that she believes the courts should, in some cases, appoint guardians to victims of domestic violence, and that the state's Adult Protective Services Act, enacted to address abuse among the elderly, exploitation, and neglect, should apply to battered women. "Do you think a battered woman knows what's in her best interest?" she asked.
Her critics contend she is climbing a slippery legal slope, since appointing a guardian for a battered woman would deprive her of her constitutional rights. "I'm trying to restore her constitutional rights; somebody else has deprived her of her rights. She's no longer a free person," counters Mrs. Ortner.
Although New Jersey's Prevention of Domestic Violence Act is considered one of the strongest laws of its kind in the country, "whether or not it's operationally functioning for us at the maximum is quite another issue," said Mrs. Ortner. She has become a proponent of vertical prosecution, which she said was pioneered in San Diego, to insure that anyone involved in a domestic violence case, from the judge on down, has been specially trained in the issue. And she has little patience for government agencies that require battered women to meet certain conditions, like residency requirements, before agreeing to help them. "I will not work that way," she said. "No one is ever turned away."
A detractor once said of her within earshot, "Evelyn thinks she can save the world, and someone has to tell her that she can't." Yet, her efforts have garnered recognition from high places, including a letter of commendation from President Clinton in 1994. In March, the New Jersey Senate and General Assembly passed a joint legislative resolution saluting the Unity Group's work. More recently, Mrs. Ortner received a certificate of appreciation from the Justice Department and a Governor's Volunteer Award for Human Needs, presented at Drumthwacket.
With the sun now in her sign of Leo, Evelyn Ortner is looking forward to turning over many of her duties to the new shelter director. Yet she expects to continue to support the Unity Group as a formidable fund-raiser and outspoken spokesperson. "I don't take this casually," she said, ferociously lion-hearted to the last.
 
Whom to Notify
 
Following are groups that are available to assist battered women and the telephone numbers where they can be reached.
 
* The Unity Group Inc., P.O. Box 333, Millburn, N.J. 07041; (973) 761-4663. The organization holds a support group for battered women the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at the Millburn Public Library. There is no charge. The Unity Group's Thrift Shop is at 1999 Morris Avenue, Union; (908) 687-7060.

* National Domestic Violence Hotline, (800) 799-SAFE (7233).

* New Jersey Coalition for Battered Women refers callers to domestic violence programs in their county, (609) 584-8107.

 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Evelyn Ortner, founder of a nonprofit advocacy organization for battered women, says she chose not to "live perfectly comfortably." (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITY GROUP INC (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (62%); WINTER SPORTS (50%); ICE SKATING (50%); 

PERSON: EVELYN JACOBS ORTNER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



177 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for DAVID SAKS;
After Viagra, Pfizer Finds Another Winning Strategy

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, nearly everyone in the pharmaceutical industry was talking about Viagra, the tiny blue impotency fighter from Pfizer.
Not only did Viagra appear in millions of medicine cabinets virtually overnight, but it also became fodder for the late-night monologues of Jay Leno and David Letterman. Men who would have never before admitted that they were impotent could not call their doctors fast enough for prescriptions. 
 With this demand, Viagra racked up 5.28 million presciptions in just six months, the most successful introduction ever for a drug in the United States. Analysts said last year that decades could pass before Viagra's sales record would be eclipsed.
But this year, less than 12 months after Viagra's debut, its record run has already been surpassed, by a capsule to treat arthritis.
In its first six months on the market, Celebrex, a drug manufactured by Monsanto and marketed with Pfizer, rolled up 6.86 million prescriptions, according to I.M.S. Health, an industry consultant.
The only tie between Viagra and Celebrex is that both drugs have been sold by Pfizer, generally regarded as the best marketer in the drug industry.
David Saks, a managing director and pharmaceutical analyst at Gruntal & Company, the brokerage house, has long applauded Pfizer and its marketing strategies. In a recent conversation, he discussed what it takes to create a blockbuster drug today. Here are excerpts.
 DAVID J. MORROW
 
Q. Why was Celebrex the most successful drug ever introduced?
 
A. Celebrex walked onto a great platform of opportunity. The market for arthritis drugs was very large, and many patients with arthritis were not satisfied with the drugs that were available. There was a huge demand, and Celebrex was a novel medicine. Of course, it didn't hurt that you had Pfizer selling the drug. They are really effective at getting a message across.
 
Q. Pfizer is the co-marketer of Celebrex with Monsanto. Just what exactly does a co-marketer do?
 
A. In this case, Pfizer sells the drug the same way they would sell a drug they created. They set up a specialty group to sell to primary-care physicians and rheumatologists. Pfizer, to its credit, does not fall victim to the not-created-here syndrome. If they see a market where they can see a big profit, they are willing to help it into the marketplace. Pfizer realizes that no one company can be everything in drug discovery.
 
Q. How important is consumer advertising in selling drugs like Viagra and Celebrex?
 
A. It has become extremely important in education and awareness. Consumer campaigns have played a big part in the push in prescriptions for drugs in the past three years. It is becoming a huge multibillion market, where every company knows there is a high take-out at the pharmacy for the drugs that were the subjects of consumer ad campaigns. The message gets a response, but it's a new phenomenon. These ads help people who are undereducated learn about new pharmaceuticals and maybe see their doctors. That helps everybody.
 
Q. Pfizer used Bob Dole to promote Viagra. Who do you think would be the ideal spokesperson to promote Celebrex?
 
A. It would have to be a mature person who the population knows and respects. They could say that they had used Celebrex or that they have arthritis and understand the condition.
Personally, I think Ted Williams, the baseball player, would be great.
 
Q. How surprising is it that a treatment for arthritis would outsell a treatment for erectile dysfunction?
 
A. That's very simple, really. When you have restriction from pain and suffering, you want to get relief, and you want it now. You don't want to live with any incumbrances. With Viagra, as great as it is, it is certainly a choice. It's a life-style drug. With Viagra, you don't have to use it.
But with any sort of pain and suffering, you want relief yesterday. Celebrex also had more insurance coverage than Viagra. The big issue with Viagra was giving it insurance coverage, when contraceptives were not covered for women.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Saks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); MON (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (PFE); GRUNTAL & CO; MONSANTO CO (MTC) PFIZER INC (92%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (68%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (68%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%); MONSANTO CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC (PFE); GRUNTAL & CO; MONSANTO CO (MTC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); 

PERSON: SAKS, DAVID DAVID LETTERMAN (79%); JAY LENO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



178 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
As Malls Die, the Next Generation Re-Creates the Past

BYLINE: By ELIN SCHOEN BROCKMAN 

 BODY:
ON Wolcott Street in Waterbury, Conn., on a recent afternoon earth-movers prowled the wreckage of the Naugatuck Valley Mall, scooping up the rubble of what was once the main shopping center here. For miles on either side, roadside signs announce Arby's, Shop-Rite, Sleepy's the Mattress Professionals -- today's typical suburban vista.
But now dead or dying shopping centers are also typical. It's known as "going dark," the theatrical term that seems particularly apt given the April closing of the Galleria Mall, in Sherman Oaks, Calif., where "Valley Girls" and "Fast Times at Ridgemont High" were filmed. In Fishkill, N.Y., the once vibrant Dutchess Mall is ailing. Payless Shoes, Deb Shops and Foot Locker are among the few remaining tenants. Robert J. Gibbs, a retail consultant and urban planner from Birmingham, Mich., who is regularly on the road monitoring these things for cities and developers, estimates that there are 500 to 1,000 ghost shopping centers in the country. 
 To observers of this changing scene, such ferment seems natural. "Babylon was done in in part by certain conquerors who sacked it," says William W. Hallo, the Laffan Professor of Assyriology at Yale University. "But what really did it in was the location of new capital cities in close proximity that undercut the economic base for its prosperity. This happened all over the ancient world."
And it went on happening, not only with cities but also with the buildings within them and now with the malls beyond, which were created in the image of downtown centers. Witold Rybczynski, who chronicled the history of shopping centers in "City Life: Urban Expectations in a New World" (Touchstone, 1996), says it is part of the nature of any building to have a life cycle that ends in obsolescence. Shopping centers are no exception. "They've been around in various forms since the turn of the century," he said, "and they've evolved, they've changed a lot over that time." The early town centers that mixed shops with apartments were followed by hybrids of strip centers and enclosed malls, including today's neo-traditional town centers that some planners see as an antidote to suburban sprawl.
Usually, where a mall has failed, a bigger, more state-of-the-art shopping mecca looms on the horizon. "You remember that movie 'One Million B.C.,' with Victor Mature as a caveman?" asks James Howard Kunstler, whose book, "The Geography of Nowhere" (Touchstone, 1994), helped establish him as an outspoken proponent of the New Urbanism, a design movement to restore a sense of community to cities and suburbs. "Well, at one point the cavemen are sort of cringing in the foreground while these two dinosaurs battle it out in the background, and in the end one of them has his feet up in the air and he's dead. And this is pretty much the mall situation in American towns. The citizens are standing around like the cringing cavemen watching these monsters battle each other for world domination. Of course, behind it all we know they're both headed for extinction anyway."
Shopping centers, some critics feel, have reached their saturation point. The new mall threatening the old one is perhaps symptomatic of a much larger problem -- "too much shopping space per American," Mr. Rybczynski says. That includes cyberspace and the incalculable square footage that mail order catalogues would take up if laid end to end.
I THINK there will always be malls," Mr. Gibbs said, "but fewer of them. And they will face greater competition" -- in some cases from downtown blocks that developers, in an interesting about-face, have remodeled to mimick malls.
David B. Livshin, president of the Dagar Group, Ltd., which manages the Dutchess Mall, admits that the sight of it "sitting there basically on life support" could be viewed as a harbinger of suburban decay. Instead, this 70 acres of interstate-front property is a new frontier, ready to be reconfigured, Mr. Livshin says, with offices, retail stores, restaurants, perhaps a conference center, a gym and "an interesting common area where people can sit." In other words, he hinted at an environment akin to Mr. Gibbs's current project at the defunct mall in Levittown, N.J. The new center will have housing, a community college, a post office and about 2,000 square feet of retail shops.
Elsewhere, some failed malls are turning into industrial parks and corporate or college campuses. Or they're being "de-malled" to create drive-up-to-the-door strip centers -- often anchored by retailers like Walmart or Home Depot, which an increasing number of shoppers find more convenient than the vast, multi-level centers with miles of parking lots and walkways. What time-challenged shoppers want these days, Mr. Gibbs said, is "to park close to the store and run in and run out without having to go through the whole mall process."
An outdated center is easier and cheaper to recycle than, say, the abandoned old brick mills or factories haunting some towns, Mr. Rybczynski says. Their lightweight construction is an advantage in restructuring them. Or in demolishing them. And, said Mr. Gibbs, who prefers retrofitting to starting over, "Local people generally have a love and loyalty for the old mall. A lot of them grew up there as kids, or they're senior citizens and raised their families there, so they want to see it survive." Mr. Rybczynski says that shopping centers have become a part of who Americans are and how they live. Several are on the National Register of Historic Places, including Highland Park Village in Highland Park, Texas, built between 1931 and 1941, which is also a National Historic Landmark.
But less distinguished examples of what architectural historians now recognize as "a distinctive American building type" will always be vulnerable to the vicissitudes of commerce and demographics. "The perception was, the mall's gone, now the area's dead," said Rob Kane, who owns Kartele Cellular Phones near the recently razed Naugatuck Valley Mall. "We had to change that."
LOCAL merchants are aggressively promoting the area as the "Magical Retail Mile." Although the nearby Barnes & Noble and Toys "R" Us moved to Waterbury's brand-new regional mall, which put the old one out of business, a new movie theater, a day care center and a video store have opened here since the old mall's demise. What will replace it is still undecided, but just the sight of the rubble is "progress," Mr. Kane said. "It means there's activity going on. It's not like when it was just sitting there, empty."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waiting to be recycled or re-imagined, the former site of the Naugatuck Valley Mall in Waterbury, Conn., which was put out of business by a newer, bigger mall. (Elin Schoen Brockman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (72%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (72%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SLEEPY'S INC (72%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); MOVIE FILMING (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: BROCKMAN, ELIN SCHOEN ROBERT J GIBBS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



179 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
The Great American Drug Stock Selloff

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW

 BODY:
REMEMBER what last year was like for investors in drug stocks?
People who bought Schering-Plough's shares in January 1998 saw their investment surge 77.8 percent by year-end. Even one of the year's worst-performing drug stocks -- Johnson & Johnson -- soared 27 percent, enough to outperform luminaries like Coca-Cola and Exxon.
But talk about going from riches to rags. Only one of the 10 major American pharmaceutical stocks, a resurgent Johnson & Johnson, has delivered a positive return this year, despite a steady increase in the industry's earnings. The S.& P. drug index has plunged 19.3 percent this year, versus a gain of 5.8 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 Several factors appear to be causing the drug sector's ills. In the last few months, investors have moved money out of pharmaceuticals and into rising cyclical stocks, notably energy companies. And analysts say some investors may be worried that the economy may overheat or that President Clinton's threat to add drug benefits to Medicare may lower profits, if it leads to price controls.
"The fundamentals of the drug companies are still the same; they are still as strong as ever," said Michael T. Manns, a vice president at American Express Asset Management. But that isn't enough, he said. "You have to have a benign environment for growth stocks -- stable or lower interest rates. The interest rate fears are back in the marketplace."
Though drug stocks have been drooping for much of the year, the pain has become acute in recent weeks. In July, the S.& P. 500-stock index fell 3.2 percent, but the S.& P. drug index plunged 7.7 percent, despite the strong second-quarter earnings reported by most pharmaceutical companies.
Some analysts don't see the downward spiral ending anytime soon, saying drug stocks may decline until the overall market experiences a correction. Historically, such an event lifts the sector, which is regarded as relatively sturdy in a declining economy.
"Investors should look for drug stocks to come back when the interest rates drop a bit," said Ken Corba, chief investment officer of Pimco Equity Advisors, which owns shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Schering-Plough.
Other factors are already in the stocks' favor. Many drug-company executives think that President Clinton's plan to make drug benefits a standard part of Medicare will be derailed, as have most of his his other health care initiatives..
More important, the drug companies have continued to be strong financial performers. Earnings are expected to swell 15 percent this year, on average, at the largest American drug companies, thanks to huge revenue gains in the United States. Johnson & Johnson increased its pharmaceutical sales in the United States by 37.3 percent in the second quarter, compared with the same quarter of 1998. Its shares have risen 9.8 percent this year -- in part because the company is more diversified than most of its competitors.
The bargain-hunting may begin soon. The average price-to-earnings ratio for large drug stocks has dropped from 39 last November to 32.3, only slightly higher than the 30.8 of the S.& P. 500. Even the industry's earnings champions have become more affordable. The P/E ratio for Warner-Lambert, for example, has dropped to 36.7, from 52.2 in November.
"The valuations of the drug stocks have definitely fallen in line," said Sergio Traversa, an analyst with Mehta Partners, a research company in New York. "You usually see some depression in drug stock prices during the summer and a pickup in the fall. But this could be a good buying opportunity for some investors."
Analysts have taken note of the stocks' promise. Eli Lilly's stock, for example, has dropped 29.5 percent this year, closing on Friday at $62.6875. But a forecast from Ryan, Beck, Southeast Research says the stock should reach $85 during the next 18 months, up 35.6 percent. Warner-Lambert, meanwhile, has tumbled 16.5 percent, to $62.8125; the forecast is for it to reach $83, up 32 percent.
But when drug stocks start rising, investors may find a new set of troubles. Analysts worry that in the next few years, the industry will not match its recent bounty of new high-revenue drugs -- products like the arthritis drugs Vioxx, from Merck, and Celebrex, from Monsanto and Pfizer.
The next blockbuster drug may not come to market until late next year, when Bristol-Myers is expected to introduce Vanlev, for hypertension. Several companies are working on remedies for flu symptoms, but analysts doubt that they will become huge sellers because the illness is episodic, not chronic.
ANOTHER challenge is maintaining a blockbuster's boom sales. As recently as four years ago, a drug would not reach peak sales for several years. But with the advent of consumer advertising, prescription drugs are climbing to those peaks much faster, which could mean revenue gaps between product introductions.
That problem, of course, also has a positive side.
"Ultimately, the drug companies are not only marketing faster, they are reaching a larger market than what they did in the past," Mr. Traversa said. "We're seeing less me-too drugs, ones that were like something that already existed, now than in the 80's. They're coming out with much more innovation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Bitter Taste"
After soaring last year, drug stocks have declined steadily during the last few months. Analysts attribute the selloff to investors' diversifying into other sectors and fears that President Clinton's plan to add a drug benefit to Medicare could depress prices. The pressure on drug stocks may be creating some attractive buys. One stock, American Home Products, hit a 52-week low Friday.
 
Year-to-date stock performance:
 
Johnson & Johnson: +9.8%
S.& P. 500 index: +5.8%
Bristol-Myers Squibb: -1.8%
Schering Plough: -12.4%
Pharmacia & Upjohn: -12.8%
Abbott Laboratories: -15.3%
Merck: -15.5%
Warner Lambert: -16.5%
S.& P. Drug index: -19.3%
American Home Products: -20.4%
Pfizer: -21.4%
Eli Lilly: -29.5%
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); MEDICARE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) STOCK INDEXES (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



180 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
An Industry On Cruise Control

BYLINE: BY KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.

 BODY:
TRUE multinational corporation with 104 factories in 34 countries, the Honda Motor Company constantly assesses economies and vehicle demand worldwide -- and the company's leaders think they know where the strongest market will be over the next few years.
"North America is the only place an investor would want to put their money," said Hiroyuki Yoshino, Honda's chief executive and president. 
 Few industries play as large or as cyclical a role in the American economy as automobile manufacturing. Last week, at the University of Michigan's annual automotive conference here in northwestern Michigan, Mr. Yoshino and a parade of other top executives predicted that auto sales and the American economy would stay strong into 2000.
Before the 1990's, the auto industry never managed more than two consecutive years of high, steady sales. But automobile sales have been about 15 million every year since 1993. And just as industry executives were worrying earlier this year that American garages might finally be full, business became even better.
Sales in July, reported by all the big auto makers last Tuesday, showed the industry on course for its best year ever, roughly 17 million vehicles. That would exceed the record of 16.03 million, set in 1986, when people rushed to take out car loans before the end of tax deductions for the interest.
Rising household incomes this year, along with fairly low interest rates and gasoline prices, have fed demand. Yet, with competition fierce, prices of new cars, after rebates and other discounts, have stayed flat, helping hold down overall inflation. Gary Valade, an executive vice president of DaimlerChrysler, predicted here that discounting would remain high through the end of the year.
The three-year national labor contracts of General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler all expire on Sept. 14. A generation ago in contract talks, in a time of such prosperity, the United Automobile Workers union would have demanded higher wages and benefits, giving rise to worries at the White House and on Wall Street about an inflationary spiral.
But these days, the U.A.W. is more worried about job security. The union's top priority is to stop auto makers from asking nonunion suppliers to build large chunks of vehicles, instead of just shipping parts to be bolted together at unionized assembly plants.
Even if the union holds the line, auto makers' costs would not rise, so the effect is unlikely to be inflationary.
Of course, to some extent the economy is doing well now because the auto industry is prospering, rather than the other way around. For all the attention that the growth of high-technology companies has received, G.M. still produces 1.5 percent of the nation's output, and Ford adds about 1 percent, the two largest roles played by any companies in the American economy, according to the Commerce Department.
Even with G.M.'s spinoff in May of Delphi Automotive Systems, an auto parts company larger than the Intel Corporation, G.M. remains eight times the size of Microsoft. The strike that hurt G.M. in June and July of last year knocked six-tenths of a percentage point off the growth rate of the entire American economy in both the second and third quarters.
SO brisk is demand now that auto factories across North America are straining to meet it. Toyota's assembly plant in Cambridge, Ontario, has increased the speed of its assembly line five times in the last seven months and slowed it only once, in a constant effort to meet demand for its Corolla and Solara cars, said Ray Tanguay, Toyota's vice president for Canadian engineering, production controls and information systems.
 To manage the extra speed, Toyota is paring the mere 90 seconds that a Corolla, for example, spends at each work area on the assembly line as different parts are attached. "We have to say to the team leaders, 'O.K., now we have to take two seconds out'," Mr. Tanguay said. To help match production with demand, Toyota hopes to start filling custom orders for specific paint and options combinations on the Solara within five days.
Nobody here was even talking about the possibility of a recession. But the next downturn could be particularly severe if Americans decide to delay replacing vehicles that are still running well after years of use. The average age of American cars fell during previous economic expansions as older cars were traded in, but cars have become so dependable that their average age is climbing now by almost two months each year.
"I've worried about that for a long time," said Thomas Davis, a G.M. group vice president, "because they've been getting more reliable for a long time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hiroyuki Yoshino

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



181 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Rand L. Alexander;
Hartford Stock Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MANY money managers focus on their stocks and ignore the economy, but Rand L. Alexander is a big-picture guy.
"We look at macroeconomic data to see what sectors and industries in the U.S. will grow fastest over the next 12 to 18 months, given our economic outlook," said Mr. Alexander, manager of the $1.02 billion Hartford Stock fund and a partner in the Wellington Management Company, a money manager in Boston that is also subadviser for other funds, like Vanguard Wellington and Vanguard Windsor. 
 What does he see in the data? "We think the economic backdrop looks pretty doggone good," he said from his office overlooking Boston Harbor. He expects the gross domestic product to grow more than 4 percent this year, with inflation staying comfortably below 2 percent and operating profits for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index rising 10 to 12 percent. As a result, Hartford Stock owns more cyclical stocks than it did nine months ago.
Mr. Alexander's top-down approach has paid off. The fund returned 28.4 percent, annualized, for the three years ended Aug. 5, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. That compares with 23.1 percent for its peer group of large blend funds and 27.7 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Mr. Alexander, 48, works with Wellington's 31 analysts to find quality stocks in their favored sectors among the 300 to 400 American companies with market capitalizations exceeding $6 billion. Those sectors currently include energy, cyclical technology businesses (like semiconductor companies) and basic materials (like forest products and chemicals).
He looks for companies with strong brands; the fund's biggest holdings include household names like General Electric, Exxon and Microsoft.
He also looks for high return on equity, but frowns on leveraged balance sheets. The return on equity for the S. & P. 500 averages 20 percent, he said, while many of the fund's companies exceed 30 or 40 percent. "Our companies typically have better financials and stronger balance sheets than the market," he said.
And he often chooses companies that should fit certain themes for the next three to five years. That, he says, helps stop the fund from "getting whipsawed, by fashions in the equity market or if we're wrong on the economy."
The themes are these:
* Global growth. The ability to expand overseas is important, he said, for big companies like McDonald's and Wal-Mart Stores, two of his biggest holdings.
* Balding baby boomers. He says the aging boomers have bigger needs for financial services and health care, so the fund invests in companies like Franklin Resources, the mutual fund concern, and the drug makers Warner-Lambert and American Home Products.
* Networking the nation. This category, recognizing the proliferation of technology in everyday life, leads the fund to buy companies like Intel and SBC Communications.
* Survival of the fittest. The newest category, it accounts for companies formed through big mergers, like Citigroup or MCI Worldcom. "We want to own the surviving entity, which will benefit from the synergies of being bigger," he said. "It's easier to manage big companies now than it was five years ago, because of improvements in technology."
MR. ALEXANDER uses a variety of valuation measures, depending on the industry, to choose the 75 to 85 stocks in the fund. For technology companies, for example, he uses earnings growth rates; for oil stocks, the ratio of price to cash flow.
Each week, he screens his list of big stocks for those with price moves of 5 to 10 percent -- a clue to dig a little deeper. Over all, though, the fund tends to hold on to its stocks. Its turnover rate is just 37 percent, less than half the average for stock funds tracked by Morningstar.
Mr. Alexander added to his five-year-old position in the State Street Corporation, the Boston money manager and one of the leading global custodians for the mutual fund industry, when its stock price fell to the mid-$70's in early July, from the mid-$80's. Besides fitting into his "balding baby boomer" theme, he said, State Street should benefit from the growing demand for equities worldwide. He estimates annual earnings growth of 15 percent over the next three years and expects the share price to reach $100 by the end of 2000. State Street closed on Friday at $67.25.
In May, he bought shares of Micron Technologies, the semiconductor maker, at prices from the mid- to high $30's. The price had fallen from about $80 in February because of excess industry capacity, Mr. Alexander said. But Wellington analysts saw Micron as the lowest-cost producer with the best balance sheet.
"It's a cyclical play on semiconductor prices," he said. He expects the company to become profitable by year-end and to be earning $5 to $10 a share annually within three years. It closed on Friday at $65.875; his 12- to 18-month price target is $80 to $100.
Mr. Alexander recently added to his position in Alcoa, the aluminum producer, which he started buying last fall at $36. "We think it's the best-managed aluminum company in the world," he said. "They've done all the right things to rein in costs, and as aluminum prices rise, all that will fall to the bottom line."
He expects earnings to jump to $3.75 a share in 2000. The stock closed on Friday at $62.625; his 18-month price target is $80.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The economic outlook is "pretty doggone good," says Rand Alexander, the manager of the Hartford Stock fund in Boston. He leaned on a statue of Red Auerbach, the legendary coach of the Boston Celtics. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Hartford Stock Fund"
 
Category: Large blend
Net assets: $1.02 billion
Inception: July 1996
Manager: Rand L. Alexander (since July 1996)
Minimum purchase: $500 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 37%
3-year annualized return through Aug. 5 (class A shares): 28.4%
Category average: 23.1%
 
Sector breakdown
 
Finance: 14%
Health care: 16%
Industrial/commercial: 11%
Information technology: 21%
Other: 38%
 
Fees (class A shares)
Front-end load: 5.5%
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.35%
Expense ratio: 1.49%
 
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%); BEN (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD STOCK FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT CO LLP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); PFIZER INC (50%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (50%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (50%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD STOCK FUND BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (61%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER, RAND

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



182 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
America Online Is No Longer Invincible

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
FOR long-term holders, the recent slide in America Online's stock price is nettlesome, but little more. After all, since 1992, when the company went public, until April 6, when it reached a closing high of $167.50, the stock had surged nearly 8,000 percent.
People who bought the shares over the last few months, however, might be more perturbed. The stock is off about 50 percent from its peak and has helped to drag down the high-flying Internet sector. Since early April, TheStreet.com's Internet index, which includes America Online, Yahoo and Amazon.com, is down more than 35 percent. 
 Henry Blodget, a senior analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company, took time last week to talk about America Online's current problems, its prospects and the selloff among Internet stocks. Here are excerpts from the conversation:
 
Q. Beyond profit-taking, are there fundamental reasons people have been selling America Online stock?
 
A. The summer is a slow time for Internet stocks. Also, since these stocks trade at such high price-to-earnings multiples, they are very vulnerable to higher interest rates.
In addition to those broad-based problems, AOL is faced with the introduction of free Internet access in Europe as well as bundled access, where companies are bundling personal computers and access to the Internet for a single price. Finally, there is the broadband issue and the threat posed by cable companies.
 
Q. And Microsoft might offer either free access to the Internet or access at a much-reduced rate. How serious a threat is that?
 
A. It is potentially serious. America Online derives about 75 percent of its revenue from Internet access, and Microsoft can afford to provide access much more cheaply because it is not their core business. They will be prepared to do that because they want to insure they have a role in the post-personal computer world. As the most powerful technology company in the world, Microsoft presumably could lose a significant amount of money to gain market share.
 
Q. Could competition from Microsoft jeopardize America Online's existence?
 
A. No, I am not concerned that AOL will be put out of business. But the danger is that the new users they get as a result of this battle with Microsoft will be less profitable for them than the subscribers they have now.
 
Q. When will these threats be addressed?
 
A. Over the next 6 to 12 months we will get a lot of clarity on how America Online will work these things out. It is very possible they will work out a deal with the cable companies. And it is very possible they will trump Microsoft, as they did once before.
That said, we have been increasingly cautious in the way we look at America Online. Competitive issues have become more of a concern. We still have the stock rated as a "buy," but we are not as optimistic as we were six months ago.
 
Q. Given the Internet selloff, is now a good time to buy some of these stocks?
 
A. The first decision to make in investing in the Internet is whether to invest directly or indirectly.
For most investors, the best strategy is do to it indirectly through companies like Cisco Systems, Microsoft and AT&T, companies that are taking advantage of the Net, but are not involved directly.
For those who are aggressive and have a tolerance for the volatility of direct investing in the Internet, we recommend they hold a portfolio of the best companies and limit the exposure in those to somewhere between 5 percent and 10 percent of their overall portfolio.
 
Q. What sort of companies do you favor?
 
A. We think it makes sense to own companies in three areas: business-to-consumer, infrastructure and business-to-business. The Internet is going to be very big, but it is impossible to know which companies are going to win. A well-balanced portfolio will reduce dependence on the success of one.
America Online, Yahoo and Amazon.com are some leaders in the business-to-consumer category. Inktomi is a leader in infrastructure. And Ariba is a leading company in business-to-business.
 
Q. The recent selloff has already started talk about consolidation. Are some of these companies going to get picked off?
 
A. There are too many competitors in the market right now, and there will be a shakeout. In most market segments, there are at least five or six players. We think the top two in each will survive, but that the others are suspect.
 
Q. America Online has seen its market capitalization fall by about half in the last four months. Could it be a takeover target?
 
A. Despite the decline, AOL's market cap is quite a bit bigger than it was eight months ago. It has been a spectacular stock, even with the pullback. It is still in a tremendously powerful position, and there is no need for them to merge with someone else.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Blodget

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (90%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); TST (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE INC (AOL); MERRILL LYNCH & CO (MER) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); AOL INC (90%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); THESTREET INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC (AOL); MERRILL LYNCH & CO (MER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (70%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BROADBAND (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: BLODGET, HENRY

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



183 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
A Computer on the Doorstep and a Toehold Inside

BYLINE: By SHOLNN FREEMAN

 BODY:
TUPPERWARE-STYLE parties and door-to-door sales pitches are no longer enough for Handtech.com, the ambitious little Austin, Tex., company that has created a buzz in the computer industry by selling systems in customers' living rooms.
With a mix of easy credit and customer hand-holding -- hence its name -- the three-year-old company envisions making a bundle not only by selling computers to the 50 million American households that don't have them, but also by getting its customers onto the Internet, where they can buy more Hand products directly. And even as it seeks to move more operations on line, it will use its Amway-style sales force to show existing customers how to use what they have bought or might buy later, not just to make initial computer sales. 
 "The goal is to build a substantial channel to sell computers," said Andrew Harris, the company's chief executive and co-founder. "This company can become as big as any company selling computers today. This can become a multibillion-dollar corporation. It's very similar to Dell in the mid-80's."
That is big talk from this tiny company, which changed its name last month to Handtech.com from Hand Technologies Inc. Hand sold just $4.2 million of personal computers last year, less than a quarter of what Dell sells in a single day, and analysts don't see Hand making inroads anytime soon. The business of selling computers has become a big-name, big-money brawl with seemingly little opportunity for small players. Even some of the giants are being battered by plunging prices and rebates.
"The Internet mania is peaking," said Eric Schmitt, an analyst at the Internet research firm Forrester Research. "The well of first-time buyers is drying up."
And, he added, some 13.5 million of the 50 million households without computers cannot afford them.
But Hand has a deep-pockets ally that is considerably more optimistic than Mr. Schmitt: the Fingerhut Companies, the second-largest catalogue retailer in the country, behind J.C. Penney. Fingerhut holds a 28.1 percent stake in Hand and is giving it access to the 31 million names in its own data base, focusing on low- to middle-income families, and the 59 million names in that of its parent, Federated Department Stores. Through Fingerhut's credit policy and payment plans, Hand can finance high-interest computer purchases to low-income people and people with bad credit histories.
William J. Lansing, Fingerhut's chief executive, predicted that Hand could be a billion-dollar company within two to three years. But, he cautioned, "I don't think we will be taking the wind out of Dell's sails anytime soon."
Mr. Harris said Hand has shown 30 percent revenue growth each quarter. But the company has yet to make a profit and does not expect one until the end of next year.
Mr. Harris and Martin Slagter, Hand's president, are British-born marketing veterans who started the company in 1996, after testing the door-to-door selling concept for computers in Britain. Previously, Mr. Harris spent five years building the international operations of the Dell Computer Corporation from a $70 million into a $1.4 billion business. He left Dell in 1992 after losing a bid for a more senior position, and Mr. Slagter, who was leading Dell's business in Europe, followed him to Austin, which is also Dell's headquarters.
Based on Mr. Harris's track record and business plan, the company attracted $6.75 million from private investors. Mr. Harris and Mr. Slagter, who also invested $1.5 million of their own money, own about 29 percent of the company.
On a company Web page intended to attract sales representatives, Mr. Harris is shown next to the message: "We took Dell to the top, and we'll do the same with you." But getting Hand to the top won't be so easy in an industry filled with price wars, discounts and even free PC's.
Micron Electronics Inc. and FreePC.com Inc. are offering free machines to customers who sign up for on-line service, while rebates are being offered to Internet customers by big names like America Online's Compuserve division, Prodigy Communications and Microsoft's MSN.
In this fiercely competitive atmosphere, CompUSA Inc., the biggest computer retailer and the only one devoted mainly to sales of personal computers, is closing as many as 14 of its 211 superstores, eliminating hundreds of jobs and adding more consumer electronics items to its lineup. And the Good Guys, which operates 80 consumer electronics stores in California and four other states, said this month that it was leaving the PC business altogether.
Even the direct-selling giant, Dell, has been buffeted. "It's an ugly business now," Mr. Schmitt said. "Dell said they'd never go below $1,000, and they have," now selling computers for much less.
"It's a game for people with deep pockets and an established name," he added.
But Mr. Harris is undaunted. He is going after buyers the others have ignored. "We actually have someone in your home showing you how to get on the Internet and how to buy from us," he said. "We're actually energizing people to get on the Internet."
"From that we can make money," he added, alluding to the company's on-line storefront, which sells accessories, software, upgrades and Web-based tutorials.
SIMPLE sales of basic computers to friends and neighbors, sometimes at Tupperware-style get-togethers, have become less important as the company takes in more revenue from Internet sales. And the person-to-person contacts themselves have become more focused -- aimed, for example, at a small-business owner or at local business groups.
The company's operations are heavily Web-based. Orders are processed through its site, and the sales staff uses it to calculate commissions and for communications.
Hand also values flexibility. Systems are built to order, keeping inventories low and letting prices change with the market. While pushing its own line of PC's, called Vivapro, Hand also has agreements to sell computers from Emachines, Compaq and I.B.M. Hand has tried to roll with the market by offering a $400 discount on its own machines for customers who sign up for three years of on-line service at $21.95 a month.
Of course, customers pay for the company's hand-holding. Consider someone with $300 to spend on a new basic computer. He could get a $699 Vivapro model -- with speed and capacity similar to what is standard for most computers at the lower end of the market -- and, after signing up for Hand's on-line service, a $400 rebate. The customer would also get $500 of vouchers to use in on-line shopping at other sites, but neither a printer nor a monitor.
By comparison, for $300 (after a $400 Compuserve rebate for customers who sign up for three years' service and a $50 Lexmark rebate), a leading computer store last week advertised a Compaq Presario 5304 with greater speed and capacity -- as well as a monitor and a printer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Not Everyone Has a Computer (Yet)"
Handtech.com is taking aim at what it sees as a big potential market: first-time computer buyers who need hand-holding, as well as hardware and software. Many Americans may fit that profile. Graph plots personal computers in homes (more than one PC, one PC and no PC), according to annual income. (Source: Forrester Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); M (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (82%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (82%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HANDTECH.COM BLUESTEM BRANDS INC (82%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); MACY'S INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: HANDTECH.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); FAMILY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: ANDREW HARRIS (83%); MARTIN SLAGTER (55%); ERIC SCHMITT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



184 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Mortgage Rates That Only Go Down

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
IT was bad enough that home prices were jumping. Lately, however, mortgage rates have been soaring as well, breaking 8 percent last week for the first time in more than two years.
Now, frustrated homeowners and buyers have an option that offers solace. Hoping to keep customers who might otherwise refinance with another company, a few lenders are offering mortgages whose rates can go only down, not up, giving borrowers an eventual second chance at the low rates they missed. 
Some lenders promise to automatically lower the rates on existing mortgages -- repeatedly, if necessary -- when prevailing rates fall. Others have surprised borrowers by cutting rates on existing mortgages made without any such promises.
Ray Rawlins was dubious when James C. Riley, the chief executive of City Line Mortgage, his lender, called one day last summer and asked whether he would like to cut his payment by hundreds of dollars a month. It could be done with no fuss in a few days, he was told. "I said, 'yeah, right,' " recalled Mr. Rawlins, a sergeant in the San Diego County Sheriff's office. " 'What's this going to cost me?' "
But unlike many offers that sound too good to be true, this one brought the taker no regrets. The Rawlinses now pay about $1,550 a month, or a rate of less than 7.5 percent, instead of $1,800, or nearly 9 percent, on the $192,000 mortgage on their Rancho Bernardo, Calif., house. They were also spared the usual refinancing paperwork. And the only cost -- appraisal and credit check being unnecessary -- was a few hundred dollars for title insurance and a recording fee. "All we had to do was go down to the escrow company and sign the papers," Mr. Rawlins said.
Millions of people, of course, have refinanced homes as interest rates plunged from high double digits in the early 1980's to less than 7 percent as recently as last April. Some have benefited from automatic, cost-free reductions provided by adjustable-rate mortgages. But many people with adjustable mortgages are now finding their rates going up.
For City Line's borrowers, when rates fall by as little as half a percentage point, Mr. Riley will send E-mail or otherwise notify them that a lower rate can be theirs, so long as the mortgage payments have been on time for a year and the borrower remains employed.
City Line, a smallish, eight-year old family-owned mortgage banker in San Diego, is not being charitable. About a year ago, Mr. Riley decided that there was a better living to be made by servicing mortgages over many years than by pocketing a quick few hundred dollars for originating loans and then watching customers refinance them elsewhere. "We service our own loans. If rates drop, why would I want you to go to Countrywide" for refinancing, Mr. Riley asked, referring to one of the nation's biggest mortgage operations. "Why wouldn't I want to keep you myself?"
Like most lenders, City Line sells its loans to large institutions. But it continues to service the loans, generating $25 to $40 a month for collecting each payment, writing checks from the escrow account for taxes and insurance and keeping related records.
Mr. Riley said he had been overwhelmed with inquiries from the trade and from area consumers about what he calls his automatic rate-reduction loan -- especially since Kenneth R. Harney, a syndicated housing columnist, said such offers "may be the mortgage of the 21st century." But its spread has been relatively slow.
One reason is that rates have been mostly on the rise this year, withering refinancing incentives for all but the most dilatory high-rate borrowers. Many of those obtaining the loans now, therefore, are home buyers rather than refinancers.
Close ties to customers could prove crucial in assuring them of City Line's commitment to automatic downward adjustments, which is included in both a brochure and loan documents but whose enforceability appears to be legally untested.
Service Savers in Fairfax, Va., a division of National City Mortgage, has quietly given these loans to a few thousand customers since 1993. The company is now promoting the mortgages, while saying that its commitment to cut rates cannot be legally binding because the loans would then be harder to resell.
Although Service Savers' rates tend to be a bit higher than those of other lenders, the company says that its lower closing costs and the prospect of rate cuts more than compensate. "Why pay $4,000 to get a lower rate when you can wait and get that rate for free" when the market improves, asked Joe Kelly, the Service Savers division manager.
In Arizona, Ahwatukee Mortgage and Investments Inc., a mortgage broker in the booming Phoenix area, has fastened onto Mr. Riley's program and steers customers to City Line. "There's no safer investment than people's homes," said Michael Thomas, Ahwatukee's president.
But it will take time for automatically reducing loans to be embraced by the industry's giants, Mr. Thomas predicted, saying that they are less intent on keeping their customers and the servicing income for the long run.
 
Where to Find the Offers
Here are some mortgage lenders and brokers that promise that borrowers' rates will automatically be lowered when prevailing rates fall, if certain criteria are met:
City Line Mortgage, San Diego., (800) 813-5119 or (619) 683-7700, www
.citylinemortgage.com. Licensed to do business in 26 states, including New York and Connecticut, but not New Jersey.
Ahwatukee Mortgage, Mesa, Ariz., (480) 649-5090, www.ahwatukeemortgage
.com. A broker licensed to do business only in Arizona, Utah, Colorado and New Mexico. Sends all declining-rate business to City Line.
Service Saver, Fairfax, Va., (877) 593-6277, www.servicesavers.com. Licensed to do business in all states.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Rawlins shoots pool at his home in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. Though initially dubious about an automatic rate-reduction loan, he says he is now benefiting from it. (Dave Gatley for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Back Over 8%" plots interest rates on 30-year fixed rate mortgages, since 1998. (Source: HSN Securities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE SAVERS DIV (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CREDIT CHECKS (71%); SHERIFFS (66%); EXECUTIVES (54%); TITLE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES C RILEY (90%); RAY RAWLINS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



185 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
It's Raining Farm Subsidies

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
CITY slickers may think there was some connection between the withered cornstalks they saw on the nightly news last week and the Senate's passing a $7.4 billion "emergency" agricultural aid bill on Wednesday.
In fact, there is a crisis in American farming, but it has little to do with this summer's drought, and a lot to do with Washington. 
 Federal farm policy is creating bigger and bigger farms and fewer and fewer farmers, converting tens of billions of taxpayers' dollars into cattle fodder, creating big profits for the biggest agribusinesses and underwriting cheap hamburgers. But that policy is bringing precious little benefit -- and, some argue, great harm -- to small farmers trying to make a living, critics say.
These critics include the conservative Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, the centrist National Farmers Union, which represents 300,000 farmers and ranchers, and the liberal Environmental Defense Fund. Though they marshal their arguments in different ways, they generally agree that a system begun back in the Depression to help farmers survive is now "planting a seed that is going to destroy American agriculture as we know it," as Mr. Gramm said last week.
The Government will plow close to $24 billion into agriculture this year, assuming the Senate bill becomes law. That Federal money will account for nearly half of all farm income, Agriculture Department figures show. No other American business receives this kind of subsidy.
Very little Federal largesse goes to small farmers growing food. Most of it goes to the increasingly industrialized production of a few basic commodities like wheat, soybeans and corn -- not the sweet corn of summer, but the corn that animals eat. One-third of the wheat, three-quarters of the corn and almost all the soybeans are used for feed, not food.
And much of the market for those commodities is controlled by corporations like Cargill, the nation's largest privately held company, and Archer-Daniels-Midland, the politically connected conglomerate recently fined $100 million for price-fixing. These two companies control 60 percent of the export market for American grain.
"Agriculture policy does not protect the person you or I think of as a farmer," Tom Buis of the National Farmers Union said. "It benefits the largest operations and the processors. And the processors want cheap grain. There are a lot of different interests in agriculture, and the farmers are the least powerful."
The number of small farmers -- those with annual gross incomes below $250,000 -- has declined by 75 percent since the 1960's. With tiny profit margins, farmers must have bigger farms, pricier machines, more fertilizers, fence-to-fence plantings. Yet this often gets them nowhere. Midwestern corn farmers' gross earnings per acre are about the same as they were in 1950, though their yields have doubled, Agriculture Department figures show.
Forced to adapt or die, fewer farmers are running bigger and bigger operations. Hog barns and chicken coops become huge meat factories; these economies of scale affect farming and ranching everywhere. Farmland is concentrated in fewer and fewer hands: Five percent of the landowners now own 50 percent of all farmland.
And just as no other industry gets the kind of Federal subsidy that agriculture does, no other industry suffers from overproduction on the same scale. One big reason that prices are plummeting is that farmers are growing too much. There is no market for half this fall's wheat crop -- close to a billion bushels, growers say.
FEDERAL farm law is contributing to that oversupply, the critics say. The law was revised by the Republican Congress in 1996 to remove the set-aside subsidy, which paid farmers to let part of their fields lie fallow. The old law had many critics, but the change "accelerated this trend of overproduction," said Mr. Buis. "It encouraged more production without any measures to control supply."
Tim Searchinger, a senior attorney at the Environmental Defense Fund in Washington, said: "The subsidies mean that farmers produce too many basic crops, taxpayers pay them for the excess, and farmers keep doing it. They mean millions more acres of corn and wheat fields, more tons of fertilizer and pesticides."
Before the Senate's new bill, the Agriculture Department forecast farm income declining very slightly this year, from $44.1 billion last year to $43.8 billion. Congress, by passing a bill of that size, would push the figure up above $50 billion -- with $24 billion coming from the Treasury. The same forecast shows the total value of farm assets rising and farm debt declining this year.
The new farm law was supposed to let the market rule. To an extent, it has. The agribusiness giants like overproduction because it keeps prices down. But Congress pumps more and more money into the system -- including a $6 billion "emergency" package last October along with the $7.4 billion offered by the Senate -- and the total payout has been greater than or equal to what would have been paid under the old law, according to Agriculture Department figures cited by Mr. Searchinger.
"We are paying so much money that we are actually encouraging more production rather than compensating people partially for their losses," Senator Gramm said. "We are going to end up exacerbating oversupply and driving prices further and further down." There is a farm crisis, but it seems to be that the market, supported by the Government, is forcing America's small farmers to get big or get out.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Farm subsidies for a drought, you think? Think again. Above, a badly parched lake bed in Pennsylvania. (Associated Press); A dairy farm in Hopewell Township, Pa., about to get some water relief. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO; CARGILL INC ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%); NATIONAL FARMERS UNION (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); NATIONAL FARMERS UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO; CARGILL INC NATIONAL FARMERS UNION (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); NATIONAL FARMERS UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (86%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (77%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); MAMMALS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); DROUGHT (73%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); CORN FARMING (72%); FERTILIZERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM PHIL GRAMM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



186 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Inclusive America, Under Attack

BYLINE: By Gerald R. Ford; Gerald R. Ford was sworn in as the 38th President of the United States 25 years ago tomorrow.

 BODY:
Of all the triumphs that have marked this as America's century -- breathtaking advances in science and technology, the democratization of wealth and dispersal of political power in ways hardly imaginable in 1899 -- none is more inspiring, if incomplete, than our pursuit of racial justice. The milestones include Theodore Roosevelt's inviting Booker T. Washington to dine at the White House, Harry Truman's desegregating the armed forces, Dwight Eisenhower's using Federal troops to integrate Little Rock's Central High School and Lyndon Johnson's electrifying the nation by standing before Congress in 1965 and declaring, "We shall overcome."
I came by my support of that year's Voting Rights Act naturally. Thirty years before Selma, I was a University of Michigan senior, preparing with my Wolverine teammates for a football game against visiting Georgia Tech. Among the best players on that year's Michigan squad was Willis Ward, a close friend of mine whom the Southern school reputedly wanted dropped from our roster because he was black. My classmates were just as adamant that he should take the field. In the end, Willis decided on his own not to play. 
 His sacrifice led me to question how educational administrators could capitulate to raw prejudice. A university, after all, is both a preserver of tradition and a hotbed of innovation. So long as books are kept open, we tell ourselves, minds can never be closed.
But doors, too, must be kept open. Tolerance, breadth of mind and appreciation for the world beyond our neighborhoods: these can be learned on the football field and in the science lab as well as in the lecture hall. But only if students are exposed to America in all her variety.
For the class of '35, such educational opportunities were diminished by the relative scarcity of African-Americans, women and various ethnic groups on campus. I have often wondered how different the world might have been in the 1940's, 50's and 60's -- how much more humane and just -- if my generation had experienced a more representative sampling of the American family. That the indignities visited on Willis Ward would be unimaginable in today's Ann Arbor is a measure of how far we have come toward realizing, however belatedly, the promises we made to each other in declaring our nationhood and professing our love of liberty.
And yet. In the last speech of his life, Lyndon Johnson reminded us of how much unfinished work remained. "To be black in a white society is not to stand on level and equal ground," he said. "While the races may stand side by side, whites stand on history's mountain and blacks stand in history's hollow. Until we overcome unequal history, we cannot overcome unequal opportunity."
Like so many phrases that have become political buzzwords, affirmative action means different things to different people. Practically speaking, it runs the gamut from mandatory quotas, which the Supreme Court has ruled are clearly unconstitutional, to mere lip service, which is just as clearly unacceptable.
At its core, affirmative action should try to offset past injustices by fashioning a campus population more truly reflective of modern America and our hopes for the future. Unfortunately, a pair of lawsuits brought against my alma mater pose a threat to such diversity. Not content to oppose formal quotas, plaintiffs suing the University of Michigan would prohibit that and other universities from even considering race as one of many factors weighed by admission counselors.
So drastic a ban would scuttle Michigan's current system, one that takes into account nearly a dozen elements -- race, economic standing, geographic origin, athletic and artistic achievement among them -- to create the finest educational environment for all students.
This eminently reasonable approach, as thoughtful as it is fair, has produced a student body with a significant minority component whose record of academic success is outstanding.
Times of change are times of challenge. It is estimated that by 2030, 40 percent of all Americans will belong to various racial minorities. Already the global economy requires unprecedented grasp of diverse viewpoints and cultural traditions. I don't want future college students to suffer the cultural and social impoverishment that afflicted my generation. If history has taught us anything in this remarkable century, it is the notion of America as a work in progress. Do we really want to risk turning back the clock to an era when the Willis Wards were isolated and penalized for the color of their skin, their economic standing or national ancestry?
To eliminate a constitutional affirmative action policy would mock the inclusive vision Carl Sandburg had in mind when he wrote: "The Republic is a dream. Nothing happens unless first a dream." Lest we forget: America remains a nation with have-nots as well as haves. Its government is obligated to provide for hope no less than for the common defense.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Alexander Gelman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BOOKER T WASHINGTON INSURANCE CO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BLACKS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); LITIGATION (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ELECTION LAW (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (59%); 

PERSON: FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



187 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: The Lost Distinction Between 'Explain' and 'Justify'

BYLINE: By Orlando Patterson; Orlando Patterson is a professor of sociology at Harvard and the author of "Rituals of Blood: Consequences of Slavery in Two American Centuries," the second volume of a trilogy on race relations.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
How can one explain the extraordinary public misunderstanding of Hillary Rodham Clinton's remarks about her husband's infidelity? Mrs. Clinton spoke candidly about both his moral responsibility for his actions and the possible psychological sources of his behavior.
"Is he ashamed? Yes. Is he sorry? Yes," she stated, adding later: "He doesn't make any excuses for what he did. But the reaction was unprecedented and harmful to the country." Asked what will happen to their marriage should she run for the Senate, she replied: "He's a grownup. He has to do this himself. He's responsible for his own behavior whether I'm there or 100 miles away." 
 Trying to explain how a good man could lie so outrageously to his wife and nation, Mrs. Clinton characterized his behavior as "a sin of weakness" and attributed it to a dysfunctional family background -- an alcoholic stepfather and "terrible conflict between his mother and grandmother."
One may disagree with Mrs. Clinton's explanation of the psycho-social roots of her husband's weakness, although I personally found it quite plausible. But it is a complete distortion of her comments to argue, as so many have done, that she was denying her husband's responsibility for his behavior or that she was blaming his parents for what happened. While forgiving and sympathetic to her husband, nowhere in the text I read did she suggest that his background absolved him of any responsibility for his actions.
Why, then, the obsessive distortions, among both conservative and liberal commentators? I think it is rooted in the tendency of modern Americans to either misunderstand or fail to recognize the distinction between explaining a person's or group's actions and justifying them. To explain is not to justify; to justify someone or something is not to explain anything.
This is the most elementary of distinctions, but hardly a day passes that I do not see it blurred, especially among intellectuals. And it is the one error committed by both conservatives and liberals, although usually for opposing reasons.
Conservative Americans are so committed to the principle of personal responsibility that they either deny or are hostile to any explanation of human action in sociological or psychological terms, fearing -- incorrectly -- that this implies people are not answerable for their actions.
Many liberals fall in the opposite trap: an oversocialized view of people, so sensitive to the social forces conditioning us that they are unable or unwilling to hold those who fail responsible for their actions.
What each side misses is that it is possible to both explain a person and hold that person responsible for his or her actions. The failure to make this distinction between explanation and justification bedevils human relationships and public policy.
Thus it is conservatively incorrect to understand, for example, the psycho-social sources of drug addiction -- so we become the only modern nation to imprison vast numbers of people whose only "crime" is their addictive weakness. And those who fail in their personal lives are simply dismissed as losers.
Among liberals, it is deemed incorrect, for example, to hold an unemployed high school dropout responsible for his condition -- hence the almost de rigueur sniping among liberals at the nation's quite successful new welfare policy. And it is inappropriate to tell those who fail in their personal lives that they have simply messed up or that what they did was shameful.
Trying to explain people's actions leads us to a better understanding of them and is certainly a necessary precondition for any rational attempt to change their behavior. In some cases, especially if the person has been victimized, it should also elicit our sympathy.
But neither sympathy nor understanding entails the denial of responsibility, and this remains true even if a person's background includes, say, discrimination and child abuse. The liberal mantra that we are blaming the victim when we hold him responsible for his failures and for changing himself is pure banality.
But just as banal is the conservative denial of the fact that we are profoundly shaped by our socioeconomic and psychological environments, and that a civilized nation has a responsibility to make these as favorable as possible to better nurture independent, morally autonomous citizens.
Mrs. Clinton's discussion of her husband's behavior was a model of how one should view and respond to the failures of individuals and groups: balanced, sympathetic and nonpatronizing, with a clear-headed understanding of the differences between explanation, responsibility and forgiveness.
If only her critics were as acute in their judgment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Scott Menchin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); STEPPARENTS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PATTERSON, ORLANDO (PROF); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



188 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: A Handful of Dust

 BODY:
Drought is a slow emergency. It does not swoop down out of the skies like a tornado or pull the earth apart at its seams like an earthquake. A drought of the kind the Eastern seaboard is suffering now, the worst of this century in at least four states, is the product not of one summer's failed rains but of chronic dryness over several seasons -- compounded by routine profligacy in our use of water. It is the result of what we have all been taught to call good weather -- hot, it is true, but blue skies day after day, mild winters, little snow. It is also the result of what we have come to call normal water use.
The drought of 1999 has become severe enough to bring about a flurry of administrative actions intended to mitigate its effects on farms, businesses and communities. On Friday, President Clinton ordered the appropriate Federal agencies to form a task force to organize timely drought relief. New Jersey's Governor, Christine Todd Whitman, and the Governors of Maryland, Delaware and West Virginia have all imposed mandatory restrictions on water use. Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman has declared West Virginia and 33 counties in 5 surrounding states a disaster area. Meanwhile, the Senate approved $7.4 billion in aid to farmers, to which a drought and disaster relief package will need to be added in the House. 
 This is all to the good, and it may also re-concentrate, for a moment, our attention on this nation's patterns of water usage. Drought is nothing new, and dealing with it does not require radically new ideas. Any number of entities, including the Western Drought Coordination Council and the National Drought Policy Commission, have been spawned in recent years in order to monitor drought conditions and respond to them as the long-term events they are. According to the National Drought Mitigation Center, no state had a drought plan during the 1976-77 dry spell. This year 30 states do, and nearly every encounter with water scarcity leads to a set of recommendations -- essentially the ones invoked in a drought emergency -- meant to discourage consumption and encourage recycling.
But once the rains begin again and controls are lifted, water use tends to rebound to previous levels. Drought dramatizes an epistemological problem that has real, practical effects. There is something almost intangible about the causes of drought, something as abstract and as forceful as fate. A high-pressure dome has kept rain from the mid-Atlantic states this summer, a weather pattern related to the occurrence of La Nina, a drop in sea-surface temperature in the eastern equatorial Pacific last winter. It is hard to tie any single drought unequivocally to the solid evidence of global warming, but that too lurks in many people's minds as the ultimate cause of this summer's parching.
Against such a grand array of forces, it can be hard to imagine how taking a shorter shower or watering the lawn less frequently makes a difference. But individual action -- conserving water -- is the basis for collective action, and collectively, the residents of drought-stricken states can make an enormous difference in their own welfare, both now, when stream levels are at record lows, and in the future, when rain returns.
Farmers, of course, are forced to take the weather as it comes, and they understand just how illusory any sense of expectation based on what passes for normal really is. Consumers can scale back water use to the bone with little more than inconvenience. But farms, like many other forms of industry, require water for economic survival, which is exactly what is at risk again this year. The reserves of water in reservoirs and aquifers have been steadily diminishing. So have the economic reserves of American farmers, who find themselves bringing their products to market, if they survive this dry season at all, at depressed prices. Neither of these problems, drought or farm income, can be solved with a sudden flurry of attention.
They require long-term commitment and the changing of habits that are so persistent we have come to call them normal. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); EQUATOR (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN DROUGHT COORDINATION COUNCIL (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN DROUGHT COORDINATION COUNCIL (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); EQUATOR (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; WEATHER; DROUGHT; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; EDITORIALS DROUGHT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); WEATHER (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (79%); EL NINO & LA NINA (79%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WATER CONSUMPTION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (68%); APPROVALS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



189 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: New York Times Business Best Sellers

 BODY:

HARDCOVER
 
This Month / Last Month 

1 / -- SEE JANE WIN by Sylvia Rimm with Sara Rimm-Kaufman and Ilonna Rimm (Crown, $25). The experiences of 1,000 girls as they became successful women.
 
2+ / 3 WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
 
3+ / 9 LIVING THE SEVEN HABITS by Stephen R. Covey (Simon & Schuster, $26). Inspirational tales from people who have turned their lives and businesses around.
 
4* / 1 THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE by Thomas L. Friedman (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50). A columnist and former correspondent for The Times explains the electronic global economy.
 
5+ / -- GO FOR THE GOAL by Mia Hamm (HarperCollins, $20). A champion's guide to winning in soccer and life.
 
6*+ / 2 BUSINESS @ THE SPEED OF THOUGHT by Bill Gates with Collins Hemingway (Warner, $30). The chairman of Microsoft discusses how new technology is changing the ways business is done.
 
7+ / 8 THE NINE STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM by Suze Orman (Crown, $23). Ways to manage your money now and in the future.
 
8*+ / 4 THE COURAGE TO BE RICH by Suze Orman (Riverhead, $24.95). How to create a life of material and spiritual abundance.
 
9+ / 5 FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES: What The World's Greatest Managers Do Differently by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman (Simon & Schuster, $25). Based on 80,000 interviews.
 
10+ / -- DAY TRADE ONLINE by Christopher A. Farrell (Wiley, $29.95). How to earn a living from home by placing stock orders on line and selling minutes later.
 
PAPERBACKS
 
This Month / Last Month
 
1+ / 1 THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Pocket, $14). A look at wealthy Americans.
 
2+ / -- THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Fireside/S&S, $14). Principles for success.
 
3 / 2 ORGANIZING FROM THE INSIDE OUT by Julie Morgenstern (Owl, $14). How to prioritize your workload and transform office space from a disaster zone to a disciplined environment.
 
4 / 3 PHILISTINES AT THE HEDGEROW by Steven Gaines (Back Bay, $14.95). How business tycoons and Hollywood hotshots helped shape the social fabric and property values of the Hamptons.
 
5* / -- THE JOB by Douglas Kennedy (Hyperion, $6.99). A Faustian, fictional corporate thriller in which a fired advertising salesman gets involved with illegal banking activities and murder.
 
Rankings are based on July figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BESTSELLERS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); BOOKSTORES (79%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ONLINE TRADING (74%); SOCCER (73%); WRITERS (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); NEWSSTANDS (62%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); BILL GATES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



190 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: AUGUST 2 - AUGUST 6;
The Ripple Effect of Rising U.S. Rates

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
To understand the far-flung ramifications of rising United States interest rates, consider the plight of Japanese corporations that sell their products in America.
Shares of companies like Fuji Photo Film, Toyota Motor and NEC have faltered of late from just the threat of higher rates. At the same time, the yen, Japan's currency, has risen against the dollar, which makes Japanese film, cars and computers cheaper in the United States. Ultimately, these companies stand to take a big hit in earnings. 
 For the week, Japan's benchmark Nikkei index fell 4 percent. "A rising yen is really driving away investors who are worried about corporate profits," Kazue Mayuzumi, a senior market analyst at the Nikko Securities Company, told Agence France-Presse.
 Back in the United States, a Labor Department report on Friday showed an unexpected increase in jobs and wages, adding to the expectation that the Federal Reserve will raise rates again later this month.
"If the Fed needed fuel to consider raising rates, they have it now," Alan Ackerman, senior vice president at Fahnestock & Company, told The Associated Press.
 MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Sun Microsystems
nnm: sunw
Sun, which makes computer workstations, announced plans to introduce a computer chip, called Majc. It is designed to enhance Sun's Java programming language and improve video, images and sound.
Friday's Close: $70.50
Week's Change: +3.87%
EST. '99 P/E: 41.59
 
Pier 1 Imports
nyse: pir
The home-furnishings chain Pier 1 said negotiations with a possible acquisition target had ended. Also, the company said it would earn about 6 cents less a share than analysts had expected.
Friday's Close: $6.0625
Week's Change: -35.33%
EST. '99 P/E: 7.28
 
Royal Dutch/Shell
nyse: rd (A.D.R.'s)
Analysts expected Europe's largest oil company to report an 8.4 percent decline in earnings. Instead, Royal Dutch/Shell said profit from operations rose 4.7 percent in the second quarter, to $1.61 billion.
Friday's Close: $63.00
Week's Change: +3.28%
EST. '99 P/E: 34.62
 
Read-Rite
nnm: rdrt
Read-Rite, the top maker of recording heads used in computer disk drives, said it expected to be in violation of certain financial agreements at the end of fiscal 1999 and might be required to repay $142.5 million.
Friday's Close: $4.125
Week's Change: -17.50%
EST. '99 P/E: n.A.
 
Ekco Group
Amex: eko
The Corning Consumer Products Company said it would buy Ekco, a maker of pots, pans and brooms. Corning, the unit of the buyout firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts that makes kitchen goods, will pay $133.7 million.
Friday's Close: $6.75
Week's Change: +54.29%
EST. '99 P/E: 18.24
 
Unum Provident
nyse: unm
The company said second-quarter earnings fell because of costs from the June merger of Unum and Provident, two disability insurers. Profit from operations declined to 66 cents a share, 10 cents below expectations.
Friday's Close: $39.50
Week's Change: -23.67%
EST. '99 P/E: 13.33
 
Union Carbide
nyse: uk
Dow Chemical agreed to buy the company for $9.3 billion in stock. The deal would create a chemical giant second to DuPont in size. The merged entity expects to save $500 million annually and have revenue of $24 billion.
Friday's Close: $62.75
Week's Change: +30.73%
EST. '99 P/E: 29.90
 
Varlen
nnm: vrln
Amsted Industries, a maker of rail, truck and auto components, agreed to buy Varlen for $740 million in cash, or $42 a share. Amsted earlier bid $35 a share for Varlen, a maker of buffers used between train cars.
Friday's Close: $41.8125
Week's Change: +10.40%
EST. '99 P/E: 14.52

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (58%); TM (NYSE) (58%); 7203 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (69%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (58%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%); NIKKO CORDIAL CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BONDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



191 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
Neighborhood Is Superseded By Superstore

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.

 BODY:
TO make way for the New York region's third Ikea furniture superstore, this city has officially declared a patchwork of working-class homes and mom-and-pop factories "blighted," fit for no better fate than the crunching bulldozers of urban renewal. But go tell Ruth McGruder that her neighborhood is blighted and she'll give you a tart piece of her mind.
"We're just like family here on the street," she protested, padding barefoot on her porch. "It feels to me, if we weren't poor people, they wouldn't come here." 
 The 62-year-old, five-foot Mrs. McGruder thinks the house she rents for $600 a month with her sister Willie Mae and where she has helped raise a dozen nephews and nieces has been a fine home. Sure, it's not the princely Victorians she cleans for a living, but she has filled it with touches that have meaning and that tell of her battle to eke out some beauty in a life of two failed marriages and other harsh moments.
When she moved here 30 years ago, she painstakingly enveloped her front porch with the baby hedges she had carried with her from her mother's yard in rural Alabama. The hedges are now nine feet tall. She has added pots of zinnia, petunias and geraniums, and a maple she found as a sapling in the nearby lake where she fishes.
"I set out all these plants -- I bought 'em and set 'em out," she said with a molasses drawl impervious to the influence of the Northern gentry she works for. "I'm used to sitting out on this porch, nobody bothering nobody. I feel this is my home."
She has crowded the porch with faded chaises and charcoal grills, all handed down to her along with three refrigerators, a 1950's hi-fi set and a mahogany dresser at prices even Ikea will never beat. "My white people give me all my stuff," Mrs. McGruder, who is black, says with a laugh.
New Rochelle's Development Commissioner, Joseph Madonna, has a powerful argument that the Swedish retailer, by obtaining a 16-acre plot for assemble-it-yourself furniture in southern Westchester, will bring in $2.5 million annually in sales taxes. Less persuasive is the contention that Ikea will bring in 300 jobs. The neighborhood's factory owners say there are far more than 300 workers here already, skilled stonecutters, electricians and car mechanics, not Ikea's low-wage, often part-time clerks.
But city officials never bothered to find out very much about who exactly lives and works in the neighborhood they will soon subject to eminent domain. If they did, they would have had to acknowledge flesh-and-blood people, deeply entangled in their homes and workplaces, who are frightened at the thought of pulling up roots and relocating elsewhere, even if the city compensates them at fair market value.
Owners of the 50 businesses, like Jerry Newmark, whose factory makes cutting tools, and Stephen J. Wodraska 2d, who repairs roofs, have spent lifetimes taking risks, cultivating customers, bringing their children into the business.
"They're trading lives for dollars," Mr. Newmark said. "Why should Ikea get the use of eminent domain and not us? You read any encyclopedia description and they say eminent domain is for public use, a highway or reservoir."
In the 34 homes, there are people like Josephine Notaro, who was born in her green cottage 80 years ago when neighbors raised pigs in their yards and the corridor that now constitutes Interstate 95 was a swamp. Her parents and her husband died at this address. Now she owns it free and clear and wants to live out her days with her aged brother, Martin, reading dime-store novels on the porch.
People here look out for each other. Factory workers watch the houses when residents are off to work. The residents protect the factories from graffiti and break-ins at night. Blacks and whites who may have eyed each other suspiciously decades ago have become friendly.
Ikea's arrival, though, seems like a done deal. If he is forced to move, Mr. Wodraska says, he will worry not only about how to retain his customers but also where to find neighbors like Mrs. McGruder to sweeten the sense of community.
"Ruth watches out for the neighborhood," he said. "We'd have to take her with us." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OUR TOWNS (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (86%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IKEA INGKA HOLDING BV (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: IKEA

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ROCHELLE (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); FURNITURE STORES (89%); CITIES (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RETAILERS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); SALES TAX (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH MADONNA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



192 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Oakley Has to Choose: Business or Sentiment

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE

 BODY:
After he was traded to Toronto a year ago, Charles Oakley showed up at a golf tournament in White Plains with some of his former Knick teammates. Still unhappy about becoming a Raptor, he began boasting of how he would eventually end up in Los Angeles. "I'm bringing Shaq back with me to New York, knock out everyone," Oakley said, grumbling under his breath. "Get me some rings with the Lakers."
The idea of the Lakers' acquiring Oakley seemed farfetched at the time -- the Raptors had no intention of trading him, and Shaquille O'Neal's team seemed stacked for the millennium. But a year later, the Lakers' president, Jerry West, is seriously interested in paying what his team is allowed to spend for the toughness and intangibles of a 35-year-old power forward who has never won a championship. 
 After Oakley had lunch with Kobe Bryant and O'Neal last week in Los Angeles, Magic Johnson got up at a golf outing and spoke of how important Oakley would be to the Lakers' championship hopes.
Now Oakley may have to decide which side of himself to listen to: the smart businessman, or the sentimental soul who always cared more about winning than about getting paid. He has a tough decision to make in the next couple of weeks. He can re-sign with Toronto for the final years of his career for nearly $20 million, securing his last big payday and helping the Raptors try to crack the Eastern Conference playoffs. Or he can sign with the Lakers for no more than $8 million and find solace in once again playing for a title contender.
Toronto may increase its offer and make the decision even more difficult. Or another team like Indiana, Philadelphia or Atlanta might enter the Oakley sweepstakes, if that's what you can call them at this point. Like many decent but not All-Star-caliber free agents, Oakley is finding that his leverage may decrease the longer he waits, while teams fill out their rosters and empty their coffers.
The best scenario for Oakley would be a sign-and-trade deal, in which the Lakers or another contender would send Toronto other players and agree to pay Oakley much more than their $2 million-a-year salary exception.
Oakley missed out on playing with a dynasty in Chicago, came close to a title in New York and then started at the bottom again in Toronto. Los Angeles would be a fitting place to end to his career, in Jack Nicholson's lap after hunting down a loose ball.
But it's not a no-brainer. The lockout caused him to miss a good portion of his largest payday ever last season, nearly half of $10 million. Even though he has numerous investments, and makes a nice profit from his car-wash chain, passing up more than $10 million this time around would have to be hard.
Oakley returns from the Bahamas this week after a short vacation with a genuinely tough call. Here's hoping the sentimental soul wins out over the smart businessman. After all, money can't buy you a ring.
 
Magic Makeover Continues
On the surface, Anfernee Hardaway's departure from Orlando last week did not bring the Magic much in return: Danny Manning, Pat Garrity and a couple of first-round draft picks. But it was reportedly the best offer John Gabriel, the Magic's general manager, had on the table.
The truth about Hardaway's move to Phoenix for $86 million is that the Magic had to trade him before it was forced to re-sign him.
Injury and inconsistency the last two seasons led to Hardaway's falling out of the group of upper-echelon players, plummeting far enough that other teams were not prepared to part with a perennial All-Star of their own. The Suns' owner, Jerry Colangelo, showed more faith in the disenchanted Hardaway's ability and future than any of his peers wanted to.
With Jason Kidd feeding him, Hardaway will probably lead the league in dunks on the fast break next season, and perhaps he will even recapture his form of three seasons ago. But last week, he was just another part of Orlando's makeover, in which Horace Grant and Nick Anderson had departed.
 
Richmond's Diminished Value
Whatever happened to Mitch Richmond? Once thought to be the league's second-best shooting guard behind Michael Jordan, he has turned into another malcontent who cannot find a playoff team or an exorbitant contract to suit him.
Seattle, Golden State and Sacramento, his former team, have all backed off from trying to acquire the 31-year-old shooting guard. Miami was believed to be the only team still trying to make a sign-and-trade deal with Washington, Richmond's current team. And with the Heat unwilling to part with P. J. Brown, it was looking less likely that Richmond would move on to Miami, his destination of choice.
"I still give it some hope, but all these deals are very hard to do," Richmond's agent, Mike Sharpe, told The Associated Press. "It's a tough situation, but we haven't stopped trying. The economic package has to be weighed against everything else, and Mitch has said that if he can't get the right economic package, he wants to go someplace where the team will be competitive."
Richmond was one of the league's brightest young stars a few seasons ago. Now he is just another veteran scorer who wants to be paid for his past instead of his potential, a player who may or may not be a piece to a championship puzzle.
 
Bucks Take a Step Back
Milwaukee experienced a rejuvenation under George Karl last season, but the Bucks took a major step backward in the off season. Letting go free-agent role players like Michael Curry (to Detroit) and Dell Curry (to Toronto) is the kind of decision that seems unimportant until playoff time. Michael Curry gave Milwaukee a physical presence on defense, and Dell could still knock down the 3-point bomb routinely.
You have to wonder what Boston's Rick Pitino has up his sleeve. Trading Ron Mercer, one of the five most explosive players in the league, for the bruising Denver forward Danny Fortson -- and then acquiring Calbert Cheaney through free agency -- just does not compute. Either Pitino is not done retooling, or he really wants to coach in college again.
Most impressive upgrade after the first week of free agency: Portland, which moved players who needed their egos stroked -- Isaiah Rider and Jim Jackson -- to Atlanta for the playoff-tested veterans Steve Smith and Detlef Schrempf. The Trail Blazers' blend of old and new should serve them well in the West.
Best single acquisition: Nick Anderson, Sacramento. He needed a change of pace. Where better to go than to a franchise that now is the run-and-gun capital of the league? A good friend of the Kings' show-time point guard Jason Williams, Anderson will also team with Chris Webber, Vlade Divac and Corliss Williamson. Highlights at 11.
Signing to remember: Jonathan Bender, Indiana. The Pacers took heat when they moved Antonio Davis to Toronto for the No. 5 draft pick, and then plucked the 6-foot-10-inch Bender out of a Mississippi high school. But he has range on his jump shot, can handle the ball and plays with the tenacity of a veteran. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (93%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (93%); TORONTO RAPTORS (57%); TORONTO RAPTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (93%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (93%); TORONTO RAPTORS (57%); TORONTO RAPTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); SWEEPSTAKES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (87%); KOBE BRYANT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



193 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Try to Curb Diamond Trade That Fuels Africa Wars

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
Concerned that diamonds are financing and perpetuating wars in Africa, the Clinton Administration is considering actions aimed at halting the illicit diamond trade, Administration officials say.
The flow of uncut diamonds from rebel-held mines to market centers around the world -- valued at hundreds of millions of dollars a year -- is keeping rebel armies in Angola, Congo and Sierra Leone supplied with tanks and assault rifles and even uniforms and beer, American and European officials say. 
 Control of these mines has been an obstacle to peace efforts in African hot spots, and officials hope that by cutting off the gray-market diamond trade they can also choke off the flow of arms, stop the endless killing and hasten peace efforts. Diamonds are not the only way in which rebels pay for weapons, but experts in Africa and the trade say cutting it off would have a substantial impact.
The Administration is likely to propose a global marketing system, by which diamond sales must be accompanied by documents declaring the source of the precious stones and their destination.
From the fields in Africa, diamonds reach dealers in Belgium, Israel and Ukraine, where the unscrupulous turn the ready cash into weapons. The largest weapons pipeline into Africa is controlled by Russian organized crime figures who work with diamond brokers, American and European officials say.
The diamond trade, which is highly secretive and governed by informal arrangements, has been difficult to regulate.
In the last eight years, the Angolan rebel organization, known as Unita, has raised $3 billion to $4 billion from diamond sales, according to a recent report by a United Nations committee on Angolan sanctions. A peace accord collapsed late last year.
The brutal war in Sierra Leone, which left thousands maimed and mutilated, was prolonged by at least 18 months because of the ability of the rebels to quickly trade diamonds for arms, an Administration official said this week. A delicate agreement ending that war was signed in July.
In the middle levels of the State Department, the African diamonds-for-weapons trade has been under study for several years. But the problem has not penetrated more senior levels because wars in Africa are not generally seen as affecting America's strategic interests.
Now, after an intelligence study illustrated how the trade works to perpetuate rebellion in Africa, top Administration officials appear to be ready to back a plan that would try to regulate the diamond trade.
Exactly how such a marketing regime would be implemented in various African nations and European diamond centers is undecided, officials say. It could take the form of a United Nations program, a multilateral treaty or a voluntary agreement within the diamond industry.
It appears to be an idea that is gaining support outside government channels. Human rights organizations are now talking about a public education campaign to highlight the diamonds-for-weapons trade.
A spokesman for the world's largest diamond company, DeBeers Consolidated Mines Ltd., said in an interview that it would support tighter controls. DeBeers, which controls about 70 percent of the world's diamond sales, views the flow of illicit diamonds as a potential threat to its ability to influence prices.
Its support would surely be welcomed by the Administration, which had expected DeBeers to resist any move to regulate the market since the company. has done quite well under the current system.
DeBeers has repeatedly maintained that it does not buy illicit diamonds.American and European officials say, though, that while most of DeBeers' trade may be legal, its dealers also buy illicit diamonds.
"We're all for it," a DeBeers spokesman in London, Andrew Lamont, said about any proposal that the Administration might advance to strengthen controls on the trade.
"It suits our interests," he added. "The illicit trade only serves to destabilize the market."
Mr. Lamont added that he thought the countries of southern Africa whose economies are heavily dependent on diamond sales -- Botswana, Namibia and South Africa -- would also welcome more stringent controls on the trade.
And Belgium, which has resisted entreaties from the Clinton Administration to crack down on the gray-market diamond merchants, appears to be changing its attitude. In Antwerp, the diamond trading center of Europe, officials have asked for help from American law enforcement agencies to combat the growing power of Russian organized crime figures, who launder money through diamond merchants, according to American officials in Brussels.
A United Nations embargo against buying diamonds from Unita, the Angolan rebel movement, has been largely ineffective, though.
"Diamond revenues constitute the essential component of Unita's capacity to wage war," Robert R. Fowler, Canada's Ambassador to the United Nations, wrote in a recent report to the Security Council.
The Clinton Administration is reluctant to talk publicly about what steps it is considering to avoid the perception that it is imposing a regulatory regime on African states by the powerful West, said an Administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Britain is also supportive of tighter controls and is working with the Administration on proposals, American and British officials said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (98%); SIERRA LEONE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: DEBEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD (83%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; ANGOLA; CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); SIERRA LEONE; AFRICA (98%); SIERRA LEONE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SMUGGLING; MINES AND MINING; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE DIAMOND MARKETS (95%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SMUGGLING (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CRIME RATES (76%); FIREARMS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (51%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



194 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: A Divisive Mayoral Race in Baltimore

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Aug. 6

 BODY:
After weeks of political chaos featuring 27 declared mayoral candidates, six of them with arrest records, a campaign showdown loomed noisy as summer thunder here this week in a rowdy scene outside City Hall.
"Man, you're stabbing us in the back," one black politician shouted at another as demonstrators disrupted a news conference, called to endorse a mayoral candidate, and drove their rivals across the street. 
 But the demonstrators' target, Howard P. Rawlings, the State General Assembly delegate, was determined to go forward with his role as a political kingmaker. He called on this gritty city's black majority to support the leading white mayoral contender, Martin O'Malley, a city councilman.
"O'Malley is a new generation of white political leadership," Mr. Rawlings, who is black, declared after he retreated from the hooting and hollering demonstrators, bused to City Hall on Thursday by the rival campaign of Lawrence A. Bell 3d, the City Council president and the leading black candidate.
"O'Malley has a track record of empowering black Americans," Mr. Rawlings said in front of the television cameras.
Mr. Bell, who had been increasingly upset at the rise of Mr. O'Malley from the status of also-ran to possible unity candidate, was nowhere in sight on Thursday. But his political lieutenants directed the disruptive rally and denounced the potentially decisive endorsements of Mr. O'Malley as treachery by "so-called pseudo-Negro political leaders."
News reports would describe the scene at City Hall as a dirty-tricks "ambush" by Bell forces frustrated that the formerly underrated Mr. O'Malley was gaining momentum. He had garnered endorsements from black leaders like Mr. Rawlings and State Senator Joan Carter Conway and from some well-organized, heavily black labor unions, including the city's health care workers.
"It's not a question of being the best black candidate or the best white candidate," Mr. Rawlings said in an interview. "O'Malley's the best candidate for Baltimore." He noted that he and other black leaders had tried and failed to enlist black candidates like Kweisi Mfume, the former United States Representative who is president of the N.A.A.C.P.
And so they are urging voters to wrench some order from what Mr. Rawlings described as a "frightening" and divisive campaign for the Sept. 14 primary that will determine the next mayor in this predominantly black Democratic city. The primary field had 17 Democrats, 7 Republicans and 3 independents. But only the top three Democrats were rated as having a chance of being elected. All the candidates talked of a turnout of little more than 100,000 voters in this city of 675,000 residents.
The beneficiary of the black leaders' strategy, Mr. O'Malley, seemed almost surprised to have risen to the center of attention as he warned against "the divisive politics of the past." He had used his four terms on the Council to make a show of visiting New York and other urban renaissance spots in building an image -- tinged with the sharp-edged resolve of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York -- as the leading voice against Baltimore's persistently high standing in drug and murder rates.
The rise of Mr. O'Malley, a proven vote getter in his heavily black Council district, appeared to have as much to do with a process of elimination as it did with his own dogged sense of opportunity in suddenly entering the race after black leaders failed to produce a unity candidate. Mr. Rawlings candidly admitted that after Mr. Mfume and other prominent blacks spurned a candidacy, he was going to turn to the former City Councilman Carl Stokes, a black candidate, as the next best choice.
But then Mr. Stokes became embroiled in a campaign resume controversy for having falsely claimed a college degree. That left Mr. O'Malley, who was unsullied thus far in the tragi-comical series of candidate gaffes that had provided this city with a bleak campaign sideshow.
One fringe candidate was recognized as a fugitive from a court warrant by a police officer watching television who then moved in for an arrest. Controversy had even focused on the management talents of Mr. Bell, who marshaled a formidable patronage machine in trying to appear the odds-on heir to Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke. Mr. Bell has had to deal with lawsuit disclosures of personal financial troubles highlighted by the repossession of his car.
The contenders are campaigning against a bittersweet subtext of the end of the 12-year Democratic reign of Mayor Schmoke. Hailed initially as an urban visionary, he was departing with various politicians voicing disappointment that Baltimore had failed to keep pace with other major cities during the national economic boom.
"It's sad, although everybody likes the Mayor," said Jim Knight, a Democratic committeeman from south Baltimore. He was campaigning for Mr. Stokes, faulting Mr. Bell for racial politics that Mr. Knight considered deliberately divisive in a city that sorely needed reconciliation.
Mr. Bell, vying to maintain his earlier career promise before an electorate that is more than 60 percent black, had become openly petulant about his former ally Mr. O'Malley.
"I'm tired of being a punching bag," Mr. Bell declared, pacing and frowning before the voters as the two appeared Thursday night before the 43/44 Democratic Club in the heart of the city's black wards. "I'm not going to take it anymore."
The Bell forces' commitment to an aggressive last-ditch targeting of Mr. O'Malley became clear earlier in the week when they rallied outside The Sun. They complained that negative stories had focused on black candidates, but that Mr. O'Malley had been spared criticism and should be scored as a criminal lawyer who sometimes represented drug defendants even as he campaigned against them. The Sun reported that Mr. O'Malley's mixed criminal caseload was far from lucrative and not atypical for a former criminal prosecutor. Mr. O'Malley told voters that other public figures, from Abraham Lincoln to Thurgood Marshall, pursued similar livelihoods in the law.
The crossover to Mr. O'Malley reflected growing wariness among some black leaders about Mr. Bell, as well as their own political need to play a decisive role in the city's affairs. Mr. Rawlings, appalled at being cut off as he stood for Mr. O'Malley, accused the Bell campaign of "political vandalism." "He's a child," snapped the black Statehouse leader, joining the O'Malley camp.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin O'Malley, center, a candidate for Baltimore mayor, is backed by Howard P. Rawlings, a General Assembly delegate (with folder). Supporters of an O'Malley rival tried to disrupt a news conference last week. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times); Lawrence A. Bell 3d at his campaign headquarters in Baltimore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (51%); CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS MAYORS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; RAWLINGS, HOWARD P; O'MALLEY, MARTIN (COUNCILMAN); BELL, LAWRENCE A 3D (COUNCIL PRES) MARTIN O'MALLEY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



195 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Systems to Invest $1 Billion In the Accounting Giant KPMG

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems Inc., the dominant maker of networking equipment for the Internet, said yesterday that it was making a $1 billion investment in the accounting and consulting firm KPMG L.L.P.
Under terms of an agreement to be announced on Monday, KPMG, part of KPMG International, will use the money to hire 4,000 engineers and service professionals over the next 18 months to develop and deliver Internet-based data, voice and video services to its business and consulting clients. It will also build six technology centers -- four in the United States and two abroad. In return for its investment, Cisco will own a stake of less than 20 percent in KPMG's United States unit. 
 The deal with Cisco, which is based in San Jose, Calif., is evidence that KPMG has embraced the idea of offering professional services to its business customers via the Internet. Stephen Butler, chairman and chief executive of the United States unit, said KPMG had selectively wooed potential technology partners in recent months to complement existing relationships.
In June, the telecommunications upstart Qwest Communications International announced that it was forming a joint venture with KPMG to provide services like order processing through Qwest's Internet network. The Denver-based Qwest now owns 51 percent of the venture, called Qwest Cyber.solutions, and KPMG owns 49 percent.
Unlike the Qwest combination though, Cisco is making a direct investment. The two companies have cooperated on various initiatives for six years. But Mr. Butler said it was not until two months ago that he and his colleagues began to think about a closer alliance with Cisco.
The market for business services on the Internet is growing at a rate of more than 40 percent a year, Mr. Butler said. "It's a young market for the types of services we provide," he added.
Simply put, here is how the Cisco-KPMG alliance will work: If a corporate customer wants to transfer business functions like accounting or financial reporting to the Web, Cisco will provide the hardware and KPMG will set up and maintain the computer and software systems needed.
The strategy behind the alliance, executives from the two companies said, rests on the conviction that dominance in the Internet economy will be achieved not by being the first to notice a trend, but by being the first to exploit it effectively.
"There is the realization that you can be out of business in three years," John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, said yesterday. "Whoever moves quickly first are those who will benefit over the next 10 years."
Carefully conceived alliances and joint ventures represent the best business model for the burgeoning Internet economy, Mr. Chambers said. And it is likely Cisco will seek alliances with other consulting firms. The company has already formed strategic relationships with many of the industry's biggest players, including the software giant Microsoft Corporation and the telecommunications equipment maker Motorola Inc. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); CTL (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC; KPMG LLP CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); KPMG (95%); KPMG LLP (93%); CENTURYLINK INC (92%); KPMG INTERNATIONAL (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS INC; KPMG LLP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M JOHN T CHAMBERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



196 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Let's Savor Comeback Over Greed By Browns

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
SOMETHING wonderful is about to happen in Cleveland, but it should be celebrated all over North America. A community is regaining its beloved football team, which it lost through no fault of its own.
The Cleveland Browns, the real thing, are rising from the ashes of ownership greed and disloyalty. The team played its last game in December 1995, and then the material goods of the franchise were hauled to a new home in Baltimore. 
 But somehow, against all precedents, the National Football League agreed that the nickname, the colors, the uniform, the statistics, the very memories, belonged to the people alongside Lake Erie. Now that team has been resurrected.
I don't want to know how much the new stadium cost, but I am positive the burghers of Cleveland would never have raised that much money for the frayed city school system. The economists who make sense to me claim that most jobs from a football team are selling peanuts eight home games a year.
However, the gates will soon open in downtown Cleveland, and at the very least, a man named Art Modell was not allowed to expropriate the history of a franchise, and that is something to celebrate.
Tomorrow night, the real Cleveland Browns will play an exhibition game at the National Hall of Fame in Canton in the state of Ohio. On Aug. 21 the real Cleveland Browns will play their first home exhibition in the new stadium in downtown Cleveland. And on Sept. 12 the real Cleveland Browns will play their first league game at home against their old rust-belt rivals, the Pittsburgh Steelers.
These milestone games reflect the persistence of dogged, faithful people in Cleveland, but the victory is not local. It speaks to every city that ever loved and lost a team.
This victory does not mean Monte Irvin and Whitey Lockman are going to magically resume hitting baseballs in the shadow of Coogan's Bluff. (Go look it up on some search engine, kid.) But it does mean that fans everywhere now have an example of the good name of their team being left behind when the moving van chugs into the night.
Leading rusher, Baltimore Ravens, Jim Brown, 12,312 career yards. Huh? I'd like to see somebody try telling that to Brown himself. But Paul Tagliabue, the commissioner of the N.F.L., made sure Modell could not ransack Marion Motley and Lou Groza along with the current players.
This great triumph by the fans of Cleveland came too late to save the name Dodgers from being trundled off by the O'Malley clan. If there is any justice in the world, the team visiting Shea Stadium this afternoon should be called the Los Angeles Diggers, in honor of the team's Australian owner, rather than a hallowed Brooklyn nickname.
The great nicknames, the histories both grand and modest, await their rightful claimants, the way the Cherokee nation can be heard chanting along the Trail of Tears, if you are quiet and listen carefully.
When the hockey team in the Canadian capital of Ottawa ceased operation in 1934, no other National Hockey League team had the gall to use its nickname until an expansion team was plunked back in Ottawa in 1992, appropriately renamed the Senators.
Who is to say that heroes like Walter Johnson and noble managers like Gil Hodges and Ted Williams could not be recalled with a third Washington Senators?
The predators took a vibrant hockey franchise from Quebec City to Colorado, but maybe that lovely name Nordiques will once again be trilled on a crisp winter night in La Belle Province.
Some teams are just dead and gone, the victims of westward migration, the new demographics. St. Louis Browns. Providence Steamrollers. Hartford Whalers. The spiritual heritage of the Syracuse Nationals -- the crew cuts and tiny satin shorts and fisticuffs and the deadeye one-handed set shot of Dolph Schayes -- still belongs to the tiny Snow Belt city.
There were legal reasons they couldn't, but I am convinced the new Major League Soccer franchise in the Meadowlands would have resonated far better with fans if the team had been named the Cosmos, after that brief dynasty of Pele and Beckenbauer. Instead, they were forced to go with the clumsy name MetroStars.
Let's be realistic. The victory of the Cleveland Browns will not bring Johnny Unitas back to Baltimore or Roy Campanella back to Brooklyn.
But all of us who had our teams taken away from us can rejoice when the familiar brown-orange-and-white uniforms soon become saturated in good old-fashioned Great Lakes mud and snow. The people of Cleveland have won one for all of us. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND BROWNS LLC (92%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); OHIO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



197 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Gore Still Sees Discrimination, But Also Progress for Blacks

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 7

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore, wooing blacks and liberals at a conference organized by the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, said today that America had "not openly acknowledged" its legacy of discrimination, especially "the pain of slavery."
Mr. Gore, who is seeking the Democratic Presidential nomination, also lashed out repeatedly at Republicans as greedy and unfair, but did not mention his Democratic rival, former Senator Bill Bradley, who spoke at the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition conference here on Friday. 
 Mr. Bradley said the Clinton Administration was doing too little to help poor children.
"After the first two-term Democratic President since Franklin Roosevelt," Mr. Bradley said, "the number of children in poverty in America has barely blipped down."
Mr. Jackson, who made unsuccessful Presidential bids of his own in 1984 and 1988, has said that he has not decided which of the two Democratic candidates he will endorse.
Today, in introducing the Vice President, Mr. Jackson described him as "perhaps the next President."
Mr. Gore praised Mr. Jackson as a civil rights hero and recalled the work of his own late father, Al Gore Sr., in championing civil rights as a Senator from Tennessee.
Mr. Gore said that blacks in America had benefited greatly from the economic prosperity of the Clinton era. And he said the White House had promoted diversity at the highest ranks, noting that seven blacks had been appointed to Cabinet positions.
Mr. Gore won perhaps his biggest applause when he called for an end to racial profiling, the practice of singling out blacks for police questioning.
"D.W.I. is a crime -- D.W.B. is not," he said, contrasting driving while intoxicated to "driving while black."
Mr. Gore also reiterated his call for a $1 increase in the minimum wage, preschool for all American children and strong affirmative action policies.
Mr. Bradley said on Friday that he was organizing his campaign around the theme of racial unity. "I'm staking my Presidential campaign on the belief that over 50 to 60 percent of Americans, including white Americans, want to have racial unity," he said.
Mr. Bradley also voiced skepticism at Mr. Gore's vow to end the practice of racial profiling if he became President.
"I say, 'Why wait?' " Mr. Bradley said. "Why doesn't he walk down the hall, put the executive order in front of the President and ask him to sign it?"
Mr. Gore said today that the Clinton Administration could take a big share of the credit for a rosy economic picture, which included substantial gains by blacks. He said the rate of poverty among blacks was at its lowest point in the nation's history and the rate of homeownership among blacks was at its highest.
But he said some places of deep poverty and desperation in America seemed almost untouched by "these times of plenty."
"I came here today to tell you I am not satisfied and I know we can do better," Mr. Gore said.
He noted that the average family wealth of blacks was about one-tenth that of whites, a disparity he attributed to generations of discrimination. He also lamented that nearly a half-century after the Supreme Court ruling that struck down segregation in public schools, more than two-thirds of black children attended schools where minority students predominated. Children in those schools, Mr. Gore said, were some 16 times more likely to be poor than children in predominantly white schools.
The Vice President criticized what he described as the undercounting of blacks and members of other minorities by the Census Bureau. And he pledged to support stiffer penalties for attacks based on a victim's ethnicity or religion.
Mr. Gore also sprinkled his speech with references to religious faith. "I believe that God's hand has touched the United States of America on purpose and not by accident," he said.
Mr. Gore criticized a Republican plan approved by Congress this week that would cut taxes by $792 billion, saying that the top 1 percent of income earners would see as much relief as the bottom 60 percent combined.
He described the plan as a "special interest smorgasbord" that would "tear the country apart." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BLACKS; SLAVERY LIBERALISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); RACIAL PROFILING (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POVERTY RATES (88%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (87%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (69%); HISTORY (65%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (61%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) AL GORE (94%); JESSE JACKSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



198 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-21
 
Tough Race to Rebuild Before Winter in Kosovo
The United Nations goal to have at least one, warm, dry room for every Albanian family in Kosovo by winter is not going to be met, officials now admit. A recent internal United Nations report said, "It is in shelter that the humanitarian community faces its greatest challenge." 1 

Diamond Trade as Fuel for War
The Clinton Administration, concerned that diamonds are financing and perpetuating wars in Africa, is considering actions aimed at halting the illicit diamond trade, Administration officials say. The flow of uncut diamonds from rebel-held mines is keeping rebel armies in Angola, Congo and Sierra Leone supplied with tanks and assault rifles, officials say. 3
 
Syria's Role with Palestinians
With the rekindling of peace talk between Syria and Israel, Syria's role as a host to terrorists may prove a complication. While reining in terrorist groups could bring a lifting of American economic sanctions for Damascus, limiting actions by the groups could also cause bad feelings among exiled Palestinians, who include 700,000 refugees in Syria and Lebanon. 1
 
Expensive Water for Poorest
The poorest people in the world are paying many times more than their richer compatriots for the water they need to live, and are getting more than their share of deadly diseases because supplies are dangerously contaminated, an international panel of experts concluded. 15
 
Focus on World's Children
A United Nations official who has been making the rounds of the world's armies and rebel groups to try to get them to stop forcing children to serve as fighters has led to a new effort by the United Nations to begin to establish a critical legal and moral framework for giving children special status and making their protection a greater priority. 14
 
NATIONAL 22-29
 
Federal Officials to Review State Medicaid Exclusions
President Clinton will send Federal officials to all the states to investigate whether they have improperly excluded people from Medicaid or from a new Federal health insurance program for children. 1
 
Disparities in Childbirth Deaths
At a time when the Clinton Administration is trying to eliminate racial disparities in health by the year 2010, medical experts are struggling to understand one of the most glaring examples: black women in the United States were nearly four times as likely to die during delivery, or shortly thereafter, as white women. 1
 
Bush Considers a Hideaway
With Gov. George W. Bush of Texas negotiating for a 1,550-acre getaway ranch, some are asking what Mr. Bush, a Republican Presidential hopeful, plans to get away from. 1
 
Election Divides Baltimore
A black power broker's support for a white candidate is leading to a showdown in the Democratic primary election for mayor of Baltimore. 22
 
Era Ends in San Francisco
It was with sadness that San Franciscans heard that The Chronicle, a newspaper owned by the same family for 134 years, is being sold to the Hearst Corporation, publisher of the rival San Francisco Examiner. 24
 
Cisco Buys a Share of KPMG
Cisco Systems Inc., the dominant maker of networking equipment for the Internet, said that it was making a $1 billion investment in the accounting and consulting firm KPMG L.L.P. 27
 
No Neo-Nazis Make The March
With hundreds of counterdemonstrators waiting and a force of 1,426 police officers at the ready, Davis Wolfgang Hawke, a self-described neo-Nazi from Cyberspace, proved a no-show for his own free-speech hate march in Washington, D.C. 22
 
NEW YORK/REGION 31-37
 
Park Murder Highlights Failure To Treat a Mentally Ill Woman
The story of Susan Fuchs, whose battered body was found in Central Park on July 22, follows a descent from middle-class life to violent death at society's margins, part of a 20-year journey through the New York mental health system. In the end, family members maintain, the system failed her, accepting her resistance to treatment though it was symptomatic of her mental illness. The case highlights the difficulties of treating the severely mentally ill. 31
 
Inquiry Details Mob Strategy
A three-year inquiry has found evidence that the Lucchese and Gambino crime families forged corrupt alliances with local officials of New York City's carpenters, laborers and bricklayers unions that reaped tens of millions of dollars in recent years, investigators said. 31
 
FRESH AIR FUND 32
 
OBITUARIES 39
 
Kathryn Murray
The hostess of "The Arthur Murray Party," which used comedy to sell ballroom dancing to the masses in television's infancy, she was 92. 39
 
Viola Sheely
An actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, she was 41. 39
 
Chess 37
Weather 37
Cong.Vote 35 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SYRIA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SYRIA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GEMSTONE MARKETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MEDICAID (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WOMEN (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORISM (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ELECTIONS (67%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (67%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); MAYORS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%); FIREARMS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999



199 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 15; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2996 words

HEADLINE: ISLAND OF FORBIDDEN FRUITS

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI; FRANK BRUNI is a reporter in the Washington Bureau of the Times.

 BODY:
IN an airport lounge in the Bahamas, waiting for my flight to Havana, I got my first glimpse of what it means to travel to Cuba today. His name was Buddy, he looked to be about 60, and he sported a belly that was decades in the making and an expectant gleam in his eye.
 
 In Havana, he felt certain, he would find not only savory cigars but also sexy, cash-strapped young women eager to make his acquaintance. That was what had drawn his father from South Florida to the island in the 1940's and 1950's, when it was a permissive playground for sybaritic Americans, and that was what friends of Buddy's who had traveled to Cuba in the last year or two had discovered, too.
 Buddy laughed. "I was just thinking," he said, "I could end up with the granddaughter of one of the women my father knew."
 A day later, ambling through Havana's Museo de la Revolucion, I got another, different view.
 The brash exhibits inside the grand building, which had served as a gilded presidential lair before Fidel Castro put an end to such ostentation in 1959, touted Cuba's liberation from European and American imperialism, from the callous dictates of capitalism and from a meek history of pliant servitude to outsiders' dreams.
 I stood before life-sized caricatures of George Bush and Ronald Reagan in a hallway dubbed El Rincon de los Cretinos, or Cretins Corner. The painted wooden effigy of Reagan depicted him in a Western sheriff's outfit, and the slogan beneath it mocked the manner in which he, like other American Presidents, had cast Castro's Cuba as a mortal enemy.
 "Thank you, cretin," it said in both Spanish and English, "for helping us to strengthen the Revolution."
 I read it with an amalgam of amusement, guilt and dismay, then walked out onto streets that seemed at once to beckon and provoke me, that unveiled stately pleasure domes from a bygone era and bold billboards of propaganda from the uprising that erased it, that did battle with - and denounced - the country's pre-revolutionary past even as Cuba's leaders sought, with luxury hotels adn an expanding infrastructure for tourism, to resurrect it in some fashion.
 To the rising number of American travelers who flock to what is still largely a forbidden destination, Cuba presents itself as a tropical storm of such contradictions, and it reminds Americans, at every turn, of their country's tortured relationship to this island, so near and yet so far.
 It held me in a kind of thrall that no other foreign country has. I was elated by the beauty of the 18th- and 19th-century architecture in Havana, where the Gran Teatro and other neo-baroque buildings around Parque Central are more evocative of Barcelona than any Caribbean outpost, but aghast at their peeling paint and crumbling edges, a decrepitude due in part to America's longstanding economic embargo of Cuba.
 I was startled by the rapid, ongoing development of Varadero, a lovely strand of beach just two hours by car east of Havana, and by the Acapulco-like phalanx of gargantuan luxury hotels along Varadero's shore. But I was troubled by the degree to which this resort was off-limits to Cubans, who are held back by checkpoints on the road, lest they be tempted to hustle wealthy. Europeans and North Americans and be corrupted by these outsiders' materially profligate ways.
 Cuba's leaders, it turns out, are deeply conflicted about their embrace of tourism, which is both an economic necessity and a social danger. Tourism brings Cuba money that is desperately needed, especially in the wake of the collapse of the Soviet Union and its formidable economic assistance, but it has other, less desired effects.
 There is, for example, an immediately evident black market of enterprising Cubans who offer to arrange for foreign tourists to stay in private houses where they can entertain Cuban guests, an option unavailable at most hotels, which post sentires at the elevators to amek sure such interactions do not take place. There is also a network of paladares, or makeshift restaurants in private apartments, and the smallest and most authentic of these are run illegally, without any notice to the Cuban Government or advertisements on their doors. They are found only with the assistance of the self-styled "tour guides" who roam Havana's sun-baked sidewalks, whispering cautiously to tourists.
When I was in Havana, in early July, the Cuban authorities were trying to crack down on all of this, and the Cubans whom I met on the street and allowed to bring me to paladares and out-of-the-way nightclubs were repeatedly stopped and grilled by the vigilant police officers who seemed to be on just about every corner. Although my new Cuban friends were allowed to continue on their way after assuring the officers that they were not conducting any shady business with me, these experiences deepened the occasionally unsettling and always adventurous feeling of being somewhere that Americans are expressly discouraged from going by their own Government.
Americans can get dispensation to visit Cuba for educational, religious or humanitarian purposes, and can thereby board charters to Cuba from the United States. But it is otherwise illegal for Americans to spend dollars on travel to or within Cuba, a stricture that effectively bans such tourism and renders direct flights from the United States off-limits.
THAT does not stop tens of thousands of Americans every year from reaching Cuba through layovers in the Bahamas or Mexico, where they pay for their trips in cash so there is no record of their whereabouts. Cuban authorities, eager for the dollars that Americans bring, facilitate this strategy by not stamping American passports.
Buddy, nervous nonetheless, had hatched an additional ploy.
In his suitcase were boxes of adhesive bandages and tubes of antibacterial cream, which he planned to take to a Red Cross office in Havana. He would have someone there snap a picture of him making this donation, so that if American authorities ever learned of his trip, he could claim he had gone to do good medical deeds.
In truth, only a tiny fraction of Americans who travel illegally to Cuba are ever caught, or punished, by the Government. Even so, going to Cuba feels like taking a dare, and I was convinced by my conversations with American tourists there that no matter what they said had attracted them -- sex or sun or simply an up-close encounter with one of the dwindling bastions of Communism in the world -- they had really come because it felt naughty and bold.
As for Cuba's Communism, it imbued the process of making flight, hotel and rental-car arrangements with an occasionally maddening vagueness and inefficiency. I quickly learned that workers guaranteed of jobs and bereft of financial incentives tend not to be exemplars of customer service.
But Cuba's Communism also means that Cubans are, at a basic level, better cared for than the residents of many other Caribbean islands; there is little outright begging on the streets, and when Cubans smile, they usually do so with all of their teeth. They are well educated, and delighted to engage Americans in candid political discussions.
Some Cubans, resentful of the luxuries available only to tourists, told me bluntly that they could not wait for Castro to die. Others praised him as a brave leader who had created a triumphantly humane system. All were kind and warm.
In Havana, I spent two nights at the Ambos Mundos, which was once a favorite haunt of Ernest Hemingway's, and one night in the famous Hotel Nacional, a former haven for gangsters and movie stars, built in the 1920's, that towers over the Malecon, Havana's scruffy oceanfront promenade. Although the Nacional has elaborate grounds and infinite amenities, it feels relatively isolated, and my room there was a cramped, dingy cell. I much preferred the cozier ambiance of the Ambos Mundos, where the lobby has a series of tall French doors that open to the lively streets of Old Havana.
The entire city is terrific for walking. The high price of cars and paucity of gasoline mean that traffic is light, and the city contains a profusion of different architectural styles -- Spanish colonial, baroque, neo-baroque, modern -- from the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries. Old Havana, with its narrow streets and artists' galleries and salsa bands in small cafes, has the aura of a less kitschy New Orleans French Quarter, and is a living museum to the city's colonial origins. It also has several lively squares, like the Plaza de la Catedral, in front of the 18th-century Catedral de La Habana, and the Plaza de Armas, teeming with vendors.
For a wholly different take on the city, there is the Plaza de la Revolucion, in central Havana, where a slim monolith similar to the Washington Monument serves as a memorial to Jose Marti and a black metal stencil of Che Guevara's face dominates the facade of a grim contemporary building containing the offices of the Minister of the Interior.
I found Havana's restaurants unremarkable, although the view from one that I visited, la Divina Pastora, was gorgeous. So I took the chance of letting Jorge, a young man I met on the street, take me to an illegal paladar in a poor neighborhood.
We walked up a narrow, unlighted flight of stone steps and around the edge of an air shaft strung with laundry to enter a Spartan apartment where, for $15 apiece, the two of us sat alone and ate generous, delicious helpings of pork, rice, beans and fried plantains, washed down by beer and followed by some of the sweetest, ripest mangoes I have ever tasted. (I paid for Jorge's meal, a gesture that seemed unavoidable and illustrated paladares' hidden cost.)
The cook, who had surrendered a meager salary of pesos at a seaside resort in order to court the mightier American dollar (the unofficial tourist currency in Cuba), prepared much of the food over an open flame on a crumbling terrace; Santeria icons festooned the walls around the dining room table.
There are many cabarets and discotheques in Havana's hotels, but I naively asked Jorge to take me to some place he and his friends would really go. We ended up in an unnamed club in Havana's Chinatown where three black Cubans performed a deafening Spanish-language rap with a chorus that sampled the melody of "London Bridge Is Falling Down."
Another night, Jorge and his friend Juan insisted I accompany them to Johnny's, also known as Club Rio, a raucous spot in the suburb of Miramar that was, for young Cubans, the place of the moment. Provocatively dressed women gyrated ecstatically to songs by the Backstreet Boys and Ricky Martin, taking breaks to thrust themselves against me in an aggressive manner that had nothing to do with my body and everything to do with my billfold.
Varadero, my next stop, was less exciting than the drive there, which I ventured tremulously in an old, sputtering Subaru -- no bigger than a golf cart, with similar acceleration and shock absorption -- that a rental agent insisted was the best he could offer for $40 a day. My beachfront hotel, the Melia Varadero, had everything from a pool the size of a reservoir to a karaoke bar. But I could have been anywhere in the Caribbean, and I wanted to be in Cuba.
So I returned to it, heading west, back through Havana, and down the highway for another two hours until I reached the turnoff to the picturesque town of Vinales. All around it rise astonishing geographical formations, called mogotes, that jut suddenly, steeply and briefly from a lush valley floor, like the humps on a camel. They are best seen from the Hotel Los Jazmines, where a comfortable room with a spacious balcony cost me less than $40 for the night.
I took a jaunt, on foot and in a small motorboat, through La Cueva del Indio, an eerie limestone cavern inside one of the mogotes. Then, with two new Cuban friends whom I had asked for directions and ended up accepting into my car (although I don't recommend giving rides to strangers), I visited nearby Puerto Esperanza, a sleepy coastal village, and treated each of us to a $9 lobster dinner at a legal paladar, Villa Sol.
In the backyard stood two noisy pigs, the larger one scheduled for consumption by the proprietor and his family this Christmas, the smaller one in line for the next. The proprietor, his brother and his son-in-law alternately sat down beside me to riddle me politely with questions: about my life in America, my reactions to Cuba and, above all, the reasons our two countries regarded each other so warily, when they were so inextricably entwined.
I had just as much that I wanted to ask them, and as the sun set and a breeze tickled the palms and the pigs squealed, I realized that despite our countries' turbulent past, tense present and uncertain future, there was really no keeping us apart.
 
If you go
Under the United States economic embargo, only certain travelers -- including journalists, Government officials and those visiting close relatives once a year for humanitarian reasons -- can go to Cuba, spending up to $100 a day for expenses. Or travelers can apply for a license to go if they have a religious or educational purpose, for example. Anybody else is banned from spending money under the Trading With the Enemy Act.
No more than $100 worth of goods (such as cigars and rum) can legally be brought back from Cuba. Because transactions are in cash (Americans cannot use credit cards issued by American banks), visitors often go over the spending limit with little risk of being caught. And Cuba enables illegal travel by waiving boating fees at marinas and not stamping passports.
Although sailing to Cuba itself is not prohibited, paying for expenses is; passengers returning by air or vessel can be investigated by the United States Customs Service, Federal officials said. Penalties for violating the travel restrictions are up to 10 years in prison and $250,000 in fines for an individual, although few Americans are prosecuted by the Government for traveling to Cuba illegally.
 
Getting There
Because of the embargo, getting to Cuba is not a simple matter of calling an airline and booking a flight. It is probably best and easiest -- though by no means easy -- to work with an agency that specializes in travel to Cuba.
Marazul Tours has a Web site, www.marazultours.com, and several offices in the United States, including one in Weehawken, N.J., (201) 840-6711. It arranges legal, Government-approved trips and can, for that reason, book direct charters from the United States.
Havanatur, a Cuban agency, has several offices outside of Cuba through which an American can arrange a trip. One is in Nassau, the Bahamas, (242) 394-7195. The agency, which books flights and hotels and therefore gives discounted package rates, requires payment in money orders, cash or traveler's checks.
Indeed, for Americans, trips to Cuba are just about all-cash endeavors; no Cuban hotel, restaurant or store will accept American credit cards. Some hotels and restaurants may honor traveler's checks, except those issued by American Express, but I never tried to use traveler's checks while I was there. Furthermore, there is essentially no way for Americans to get extra cash in Cuba.
 
Getting Around
In addition to Havanatur, Cubatur can help with excursions and guided tours within Cuba, and has an office in Havana, (53-7) 334-155, as well as desks in some of the major hotels. There are rental car representatives in most major hotels, but those unwilling to pay steep prices will find that the rental cars are old and not always reliable. Gasoline stations are few and far between, so the fuel tank should be kept at least half full. Also, be prepared to fend off hitchhikers, who seem to number 300 for every car.
 
Where to Stay
Telephone circuits to Cuba are often overloaded, so expect to make frequent attempts to get through.
HAVANA: The Ambos Mundos, at 153 Calle Obispo, Old Havana; telephone (53-7) 614-887. It has 52 rooms, a beautiful lobby piano bar, a rooftop restaurant and a good location in Old Havana. Rate: about $110 a night, with breakfast, depending on season.
The Hotel Nacional, Calle O and 21st, Vedado, (53-7) 550-294, fax (53-7) 335-171. It has 446 rooms, two pools, tennis, tropical gardens, several bars and restaurants and terrific ocean views. Rates: about $155 a night, depending on the season.
The Melia Cohiba, Paseo between First and Third, Vedado, telephone (53-7) 333-636, fax (53-7) 334-555. There are 342 rooms and 120 suites, a pool, numerous restaurants and bars and one of the hottest big-band nightclubs, the Havana Cafe. Opened in 1995, the Melia Cohiba is perhaps the most luxurious of Havana's large hotels. Rates: about $190 a night.
OUTSIDE HAVANA: The Melia Varadero, Autopista Sur, Varadero, Matanzas, telephone (53-5) 667-013, has 490 rooms, an enormous pool, restaurants, bars and private access to a beach. Rate: about $155 a night, depending on the season. Varadero is 85 miles from Havana.
The Hotel Los Jazmines, part of Cuba's Horizontes chain, Carretera Vinales, kilometer 25, Vinales; (53-7) 334 042, has 62 rooms with balconies, a swimming pool, gardens and a stunning location above a lush valley. Rates: about $50 a night, depending on the season. Vinales is a two-hour drive from Havana.
 
Where to Eat
For food that is more authentic (and, in many cases, tastier) than the fare in large restaurants, many tourists visit paladares, small dining spots in Cuban homes. Some are registered with the Cuban Government and can be recommended by hotel staff; these are more dependable but less intimate, and tourists are unlikely to find themselves the only guests. Illegal paladares involve risk; a tourist must follow the lead of one of the many self-styled tour guides on the street. But if it works out, it provides a real glimpse of Cuban life. Negotiate the price and the menu in advance. FRANK BRUNI
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hotel Ambos Mundos: Hemingway slept here, often. A house in the town of Vinales, in front of one of the stone formations known as mogotes. (Photographs by Adalberto Roque/Agence France-Presse, for The New York Times)(pg. 17)
 
MISSING CAPS ON PAGE 15
 
Map of Cuba highlighting Havana. (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAVANA, CUBA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (74%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1999



200 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11;Page 1;Column 3;Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2920 words

HEADLINE: For Architects, It's a Boom Town

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
FRESHLY recruited from a corporate colossus, the new president strides into a rapidly growing company in search of even higher profits, untapped markets and maybe an acquisition or two.
The description could fit many Wall Street firms. But the firm in question is Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. You can easily spot its architects, planners and interior designers. They're the ones dressed completely in black among all those navy blue and charcoal gray suits in the canyons of the financial district. 
 That Skidmore now does business from 14 Wall Street, on a crossroads it shares with the New York Stock Exchange and J. P. Morgan, is in one sense coincidental. (The firm just needed affordable space.) In another sense, it is an apt metaphor for the state of the profession at the moment. Like Wall Street, architecture is booming.
Five years ago, Skidmore had 200 employees in New York, down from a peak of 425 in 1988. The firm moved downtown last October into space designed for up to 325 employees. There are now 340.
Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, by some rankings the largest architectural firm in America, has doubled the size of its New York office since 1994, from 50 to 100 employees. So has Gensler, another national giant, whose New York office has grown from 169 to 334 employees in the past five years. The ranks at H L W International's New York office have risen from 215 to 310 in the same period.
Good fortune is also visiting small firms. Wendy Evans Joseph has watched her practice at 500 Park Avenue grow from one person in 1994 to six today. "I could have 20 people, there's so much work right now," she said. Her projects include a V-shaped, cable-stayed pedestrian bridge over East 63d Street for Rockefeller University and, in Dallas, the Women's Museum: An Institute for the Future.
Roberta Washington, too, has as much work as she can handle in her 10-person office at 271 West 125th Street. But she depends on government agencies and nonprofit institutions for jobs: a new station for the Franklin Avenue shuttle in Brooklyn, four clinics for the Interfaith Medical Center in Brooklyn, 27 homes in central Harlem, two schools in New Haven.
"I'm not the only black architect whose majority of work is public work," she said. "It goes back to the root of how potential clients select architects. A lot of it has to do with who you know."
"There are very few of us who can say we're benefiting from the boom," Ms. Washington said. "It would be great to participate and not just see it through the glass." Because salary levels have risen faster than fees, she cannot afford the extra staff she needs and so finds herself working longer hours.
To judge from help-wanted advertising, the demand for architects is greater than it has been in a decade. In July 1989, The New York Times ran an average of 42 ads for architectural positions in its Sunday classified section. In July 1994, with the real estate market in tatters, the average was 25 ads. Last month, it was 79.
Fueling the demand is the scarcity of experienced architects in their late 30's and early 40's. "There is a missing generation," said David M. Childs, the chairman designate of Skidmore. Despairing of their prospects earlier this decade, they either got out of architecture or never got into it.
"We were taking jobs that smaller firms would have taken," recalled A. Eugene Kohn, a founding principal of Kohn Pedersen Fox. "Smaller firms were taking jobs that new firms might have taken. And new people were saying, 'Forget it.' "
"Where did they go?" asked Walter A. Hunt Jr., a managing principal of Gensler. "Maybe they're running a bed-and-breakfast in Vermont. Maybe they're fishing." It is widely supposed that those embryonic architects wound up in other parts of the country or related fields like construction management and real estate development.
Their absence is keenly felt. "What's generally available is a zero- to 8-year experience level," said Carl W. Ordemann, the managing principal of the New York office of Perkins & Will. "Then there's a substantial gap in the 8- to 15-year level. Every office, across the board, is suffering from that gap. You can't do jobs as well without those people as part of the team."
The scarcity of experienced architects allows some of them to command salaries in the range of $60,000 to $70,000 -- a small fortune for architectural staffers.
"It's a good thing for the profession at one level," said Kenneth H. Drucker, director of design and senior principal at the New York office of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, "but at another level, the fees were lowered to remain competitive and they haven't rebounded. They've stayed low, salaries have risen and headhunters are pursuing your professional staff."
THOMAS BALSLEY, a landscape architect who designed Gantry Plaza State Park on the Queens waterfront, would not want to return to the old days. "If anyone complains about working weekends," he said, "I'll show them the help wanted ads from eight years ago."
Nonetheless, he noted that higher salaries and the cost of computer equipment and programs had pushed up operating costs. "We're not even close to being as profitable as we were in the 80's," Mr. Balsley said.
Adding to Mr. Balsley's concerns are signs that the Flatiron district, where he and many other architects have offices, may be growing too popular -- and too pricey. He would love to stay in 119 Fifth Avenue, at 19th Street, he said, but "with all the I.P.O. brats running around with million-dollar bills hanging out of their pockets, landlords won't even negotiate."
Costas Kondylis & Associates is preparing to leave 3 West 18th Street in October for new quarters at 31 West 27th Street.
Mr. Kondylis is designing Trump World Tower at the east end of 47th Street and Larry Silverstein's River Place complex at the west end of 42d Street. His office has grown from 28 to 64 people since 1994. "The rents in the Flatiron district have gone up," Mr. Kondylis said. "So the new area for architects is the West 20's."
Overall, however, the movement over time has been downtown. The highest concentration of membership in the American Institute of Architects is in ZIP code 10003 around Union Square, which takes in parts of Ladies' Mile, the Flatiron district, Greenwich Village and the East Village.
"More than 50 percent of our firms are now below Union Square," said Rolf Ohlhausen, the immediate past president of the New York chapter of the A.I.A.
Another area that architects are discovering is the financial district. Nearing the end of its lease in 600 Madison Avenue, at 58th Street, Pei Cobb Freed & Partners is scouting for new quarters and has cast its net as far downtown as Wall Street. "Many buildings that were considered Class B have been upgraded," said George H. Miller, the managing partner. "They present what we believe to be the best value in today's market for the architectural community."
Gensler, at 1 Rockefeller Plaza, has a "Wall Street studio" -- 25 people in 1 Liberty Plaza at Broadway and Liberty Street -- to serve financial institutions like J. P. Morgan and the Federal Reserve Bank.
Skidmore moved 10 months ago to the former Bankers Trust Company Building at Wall and Nassau Streets, a landmark completed in 1912 and expanded in 1933, topped by a stepped pyramid like the ancient Greek Mausoleum at Halicarnassus.
Skidmore is one of the largest firms in New York, if not the largest. And it probably has the highest public profile, with commissions that include the new Pennsylvania Station, the new International Air Terminal at Kennedy International Airport, the new New York Stock Exchange, the Columbus Centre complex at Columbus Circle that includes Time Warner headquarters, Bear Stearns headquarters on Madison Avenue and one of the new Times Square towers.
As its lease neared an end at the old Daily News Building, 220 East 42d Street, Skidmore began a search for new space. "Where we really wanted to be was the Hudson Street corridor or Ladies' Mile but there was nothing available in those two areas," said T. J. Gottesdiener, a partner.
The firm was in an awkward position. "We're not big enough to threaten the Mayor that we're going to move to New Jersey," Mr. Childs said, "but we're also not in the 3,000- to 4,000-square-foot range."
After looking as far afield as Long Island City, Queens, Mr. Gottesdiener settled on 14 Wall Street as meeting three key criteria: floors as large as possible (Skidmore has 72,000 square feet on three floors); a safe, convenient location and "rents we could sustain when the market turned" -- low $20's a square foot annually, compared with the high $20's on 42d Street.
In some ways, lower Manhattan is quite accessible. Subway lines converge there and city agencies are within walking distance. On the other hand, bulky architectural models have to be carted around much more, since clients in mid-Manhattan are less likely to visit the Skidmore office in person. "We spend more time shlepping than we did before," Mr. Childs allowed.
Those who do show up at the 24th floor of 14 Wall Street find a much different Skidmore office than the one on 42d Street, which affected a lavish corporate look, with a lobby paved in travertine and framed by colossal stainless steel columns.
Bare concrete floors run through the austere new space, with its plywood cubicles for design partners, spidery-looking Aeron chairs and a factory-like steel staircase linking display galleries that parallel the computer-filled drafting rooms.
"We wanted to create a laboratory to allow our practice to happen," said Roger F. Duffy Jr., a design partner. "We wanted our work to speak for itself."
Having settled into its new quarters, Skidmore shook itself up again in June when it named an outsider, both to the firm and the profession, as its first president.
Through a management recruiter, the partners found Kenneth C. Brown, 47, a corporate vice president of the General Electric Company and president of GE Southeast Asia, in Singapore. He holds a degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell and a degree in engineering science and economics from Oxford. He joined General Electric in 1992 after a career that included the Solar Energy Research Institute in Golden, Colo., and Price Waterhouse.
He is to manage business operations and assist the partners in strategic planning. "They still didn't feel as competent as they should be -- or even wanted to be -- in managing the business affairs of the firm," Mr. Brown said.
A limited liability partnership founded in 1936, Skidmore elected Mr. Childs its first chief executive in 1991, followed by Adrian D. Smith of Chicago and John H. Winkler of New York. Mr. Childs will assume the new position of chairman in October.
With worldwide revenues of $89 million in 1998, Skidmore ranked 10th among architects and architect-engineers in Engineering News-Record's list of top design firms. (Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum was first in the architectural field, with revenues of $295 million. It has 1,900 employees worldwide.)
"This is raw material waiting to be formed into a great new business proposition," Mr. Brown said. "I wouldn't mind being No. 1 or No. 2 in size of revenues, but my first goal is to make sure that we're No. 1 in terms of recognition, where anywhere in the world, when people think about taking on a complicated project, the first name that comes to mind is S.O.M."
"From every partner," Mr. Brown said, "I've heard three or four great ideas about new ways to leverage the influence of this firm." His goals include increasing profitability -- "It could be better but it's not dismal" -- and productivity.
"It doesn't have to be done in ax-and-saw fashion," he said. "Very clear definitions of customer requirements and diligent planning will cut out a lot of the rework and mistaken direction that sometimes occurs."
As a veteran of overseas operations, Mr. Brown would also like to see Skidmore fortify its international business, which accounted for 35 percent of revenues last year. While the firm is strong in Asia and the Middle East, it has much less of a presence in Western Europe and Latin America. "I don't see how you can call yourself global without seeing that, long term, half of your work is going to be outside the United States," he said.
To get a toehold in other markets, Skidmore might even acquire firms. "I don't think you ought to discard it as a possibility," Mr. Brown said.
Mergers and acquisitions may not exactly be sweeping the architectural profession, but there is at least one noteworthy prospective union this summer, as Alan Lapidus takes steps to ally his specialty hotel practice with Perkins & Will, which is itself under the umbrella of Dar Al-Handasah Consultants (Shair & Partners) of Cairo.
Mr. Lapidus, designer of the curvy, plum-colored Crowne Plaza in Times Square and the new Holiday Inn Wall Street District, carries on a family architectural tradition. His father, Morris, designed the swooping, jet-set-modern Fontainebleau in Miami Beach and the Americana in Manhattan, now the Sheraton New York.
The younger Mr. Lapidus said he hoped a merger would allow him to exploit his expertise in hotel planning by taking advantage of Perkins & Will's "horsepower."
"I needed a firm that does good construction documents and has a good design sense, where I could input all of my hotel knowledge," Mr. Lapidus said, "even if it meant not being glitzy, which would deprive me of my name of honor and make me a shame unto my father."
For Perkins & Will, the addition of the Lapidus team would "spread our footing" in the hotel field, Mr. Ordemann said.
Diversification is the name of the game, as firms try to devise strategies that will soften the blow when the market turns around again -- as it surely will.
"Our industry is so cyclical," said Belmont Freeman, who runs a six-architect practice at 110 West 40th Street. "On the upturns, you're able to accumulate money you use to pay off the debt that you accumulated in the bad times."
Last month, he hired an office manager and bookkeeper. "That's a significant turning point," he said. "We've gotten so busy that I ended up doing the administrative work while the other architects on my staff were doing the fun stuff."
Like principals in firms that are many times larger, Mr. Freeman is diversifying his practice. His jobs include a new seven-story apartment building on Eighth Street, east of Tompkins Square; the conversion of an East 73d Street town house into apartments; video and sound studios on lower Broadway; interior projects at three Columbia University graduate schools, and a residential compound in Langley, Va.
"I've got all the desks in my office filled for the first time," Mr. Freeman said. But that sight does not erase vivid memories of having one employee and subletting half his space. "Only as recently as last December did I take the gamble of renewing my lease for five years," he said. "My new worry is: one more job and I may have to expand."
 
A.I.A. Gets New Home, and New Goals
 Not long ago, many members of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects were scrambling to pay their own rent. Now, times are flush enough that they have raised $1.25 million among themselves to buy a large storefront space at 534 La Guardia Place, in Greenwich Village. They intend to raise $1.5 million more to turn it into a showplace headquarters that will help raise the chapter's profile.
"This is not just for architecture, this is for public engagement," said Walter A. Hunt Jr. of Gensler, the president of the chapter. The A.I.A. is a 142-year-old professional organization based in Washington. Its New York chapter represents nearly 70 percent of the registered architects in Manhattan.
 Wendy Evans Joseph, who will succeed Mr. Hunt in January, believes this is an opportune moment for architects to acknowledge their social responsibility. "Especially when times are good," she said, "we have to watch very carefully what we're doing and not just satisfy the client who pays us but the people who are not paying us; who are walking by, and under the shadows and living next door to what we're doing."
She suggested that architects could play a role in solving the public school construction crisis. "There is no excuse for bricks to be falling on kids' heads," Ms. Joseph said.
Rolf Ohlhausen, of Ohlhausen DuBois, the immediate past president, conceded that the chapter had "not always been really visible to the public or many of our members." The A.I.A. and its affiliate, the New York Foundation for Architecture, are tucked among furniture showrooms in the New York Design Center, 200 Lexington Avenue, between 32d and 33d Streets.
The 11,000-square-foot space on La Guardia Place, at street level and two floors below, will accommodate a gallery and meeting room. Mr. Hunt said there would be a design competition and that construction might begin next spring.
The move downtown was prompted in part by Mr. Ohlhausen's geographic study of A.I.A. membership, which is centered around Union Square in ZIP code 10003. The new headquarters will be immediately to the south in 10012, another architecturally populous ZIP code. "Most of us cannot afford midtown rents," Mr. Ohlhausen said. "The migration south has to do with economics and the rediscovery of older buildings." His own office is at 14 East Fourth Street, New York, N.Y. 10012.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page map on Aug. 8 showing the distribution of Manhattan members of the American Institute of Architects carried an incorrect color code for ZIP code 10029 -- roughly the area of Spanish Harlem. The area indeed houses at least one member -- Damiano G. Maruca, at 100 East 101st Street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A gallery in the new Skidmore, Owings & Merrill office at 14 Wall Street. The model is of the Warburg Dillon Read complex in Stamford, Conn.
(Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Wendy Evans Joseph with design for Women's Museum in Dallas. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Kenneth C. Brown, the president of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, top firm's offices at 14 Wall Street. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Time); The American Institute of Architects has purchased a storefront space for its chapter headquarters at 534 La Guardia Place, across from a statue of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia by Neil Estern. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map: "Where the Architects Are" -- Members of the American Institute of Architects, by ZIP code. Map of Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); HOK GROUP INC (55%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999

 
