

401 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3303 words

HEADLINE: Fear in the Mail -- A special report.;
Alarmed by Fund-Raiser, The Elderly Give Millions

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
"All the Social Security Trust Fund Money Is Gone!" screamed the official-looking envelope received by millions of elderly Americans earlier this year.
The letter inside called for emergency action to halt "the enormous fraud that has taken place at your expense" and asked for $5 in membership dues, and an extra $5 or $10 or $15, so the United Seniors Association could keep on "fighting hard in the nation's capital to insure the rights and benefits of America's seniors are protected." 
 It is the minimalist approach to public advocacy. United Seniors, to which hundreds of thousands of retirees have contributed millions of dollars over the last year, has no lobbyist and its directors are experts in fund-raising, not in the problems of the elderly. Nearly all its proceeds are used to send out still more letters seeking more donors, usually with language that critics describe as misleadingly frightening.
That letter was signed by George L. Murphy, former Republican Senator from California and, until his death in May, honorary chairman of United Seniors, a new nonprofit, tax-exempt advocacy group.
As those who sent money learned from the strident solicitations they have received monthly ever since, the actual chairman of this seeming bulwark of Social Security and Medicare, the largest Federal benefit programs, is the archconservative Richard A. Viguerie.
A leader of the New Right movement that helped put Ronald Reagan in the White House and has clamored for a balanced Federal budget, Mr. Viguerie remains a familiar source of stinging commentary. He is best known as a pioneer and master of direct-mail fund-raising, which he says he devotes to the conservative cause.
 
Master at Raising Money
 But a detailed examination of Mr. Viguerie's recent turn to the elderly for money shows him to be a master, above all, at generating new revenue for his cash-starved personal business, now called Viguerie & Associates.
Since 1989, in a pattern that experts in philanthropy say raises serious questions about Mr. Viguerie's motives, he has either created or worked for at least four different advocacy groups that have bombarded the elderly with tens of millions of solicitations, generating millions of dollars in fees for his private companies.
Twice he set up his own groups that competed with the organizations that bought his direct-mail services, possibly undermining his clients by soliciting many of the same retirees on exactly the same issues.
Mr. Viguerie did not respond to numerous requests over a two-month period for comment, including messages left with members of his staff by telephone and in person noting that his business practices were being criticized.
In his advocacy for the elderly Mr. Viguerie appears to have followed the letter if not the spirit of the generally lax Federal and state laws covering tax-exempt advocacy groups, which according to Internal Revenue Service regulations must be dedicated to a social purpose. Devoting most resources to mailing, for example, is legal because the I.R.S. allows advocacy groups to count the messages in their letters as public education.
But Mr. Viguerie's new dedication to helping old people appears to have been pursued in a manner filled with potential conflicts of interest, in operations that seem, above all, to generate money for his indebted private enterprises.
Mr. Viguerie's organizations use nearly all of the donations they receive to send out still more letters, and in the process spread large sums among list-renters, letter-writers, printers, mailers and other subcontractors, always including Mr. Viguerie himself.
In the case of United Seniors, Mr. Viguerie founded and directs an organization that takes advantage of the large postal subsidies available to tax-exempt groups to send what critics in Congress call fright mail. The group, in turn, spends hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to rent the mailing lists that his for-profit company compiles and maintains.
 
'It's a Sweetheart Deal'
 "It's a sweetheart deal," said Kenneth Albrecht, President of the National Charities Information Bureau, a watchdog group in New York. "He is using a nonprofit to make money for his own company."
Mr. Viguerie's activities show how easily charities and fund-raisers can tap popular passions and public subsidies for private gain by subtly manipulating the fund-raising operations in ways that are difficult for donors or government regulators to detect.
The examination of his activities, which included review of dozens of financial documents and contracts and records of lawsuits as well as interviews with numerous current and former employees, has also provided an unusually detailed portrait of the fund-raising tactics followed by Mr. Viguerie and several proteges, who make up a significant subsector of the fund-raising industry. Many direct-mail companies subscribe to a code of ethics that prohibits many of Mr. Viguerie's practices.
 
The Organization
Odd Mission For Conservatives
 United Seniors, Mr. Viguerie's latest group focusing on the elderly, raised $2 million in the last four months of 1991 and now claims 350,000 contributors. It is one of a handful of groups that are peppering the nation's elderly with ominous news of the latest "threat" to their Social Security and Medicare benefits, always with a request for money.
The United Seniors board and executives consist entirely of direct-mail experts and people active in conservative causes, almost all of them former Viguerie employees. The group says the alarms sounded by its mailings are its main contribution to political change.
Tying conservatism to the defense of mandatory spending programs for the elderly turns political tradition upside down. Conservatives have long derided Social Security and Medicare as bordering on socialism. As recently as 1983, Patrick J. Buchanan, whom Mr. Viguerie has championed for President, called for making Social Security voluntary; Mr. Murphy, as a Senator in 1965, voted against the creation of Medicare.
But in the last four years, as angry and frightened retirees were catalyzed by a Medicare tax and emerged as large donors, Mr. Viguerie emerged as a stalwart defender of elderly benefits. He links the fate of these programs to the more traditional conservative goal of slashing the rest of the Government, so there will be more money left for the elderly. Recently, he has also crusaded against applying any income test to receivers of elderly benefits.
 
Bipartisan Criticism
 Members of Congress from both parties and officials of the Social Security Administration say United Seniors and similar groups are preying on vulnerable old people with statements that distort the problems facing Social Security and Medicare, especially by exaggerating the threat to current retirees. Some charge Mr. Viguerie with cynical opportunism.
"If conservatism isn't selling very well, and the deadly Commie menace is dried up, then let's find some other trouble in River City," is how Representative Andy Jacobs, Democrat of Indiana, characterized Mr. Viguerie's motives. Mr. Jacobs's subcommittee on Social Security held hearings on United Seniors and several other groups this spring.
"The motive of these groups is to raise money," said Jim Bunning of Kentucky, a Republican on the subcommittee. Congress has acted to outlaw advocacy letters that mimic official Government correspondence, but cannot regulate the way they express their views.
Steven J. Allen, the editor of the United Seniors newsletter, who spoke on behalf of the organization, said, "These politicians from a corrupt Congress who criticize us are politically motivated, on a witch hunt."
He said it was the spendthrift Congress, not the statements of United Seniors, that people should be afraid of, and he portrayed his group as a harbinger of a new conservative movement.
 
The Business
A Lot of Money Is Churned Up
 Mr. Viguerie arrived at his dedication to the elderly by a roundabout path that started in 1980. That year Mr. Viguerie, who in the 1970's became famous as a fund raiser, joined forces with a politically ambitious, conservative school board president in Mobile, Ala., who wanted to take his appeals for traditional values in education, school prayer and money to a national audience. The official, Dan C. Alexander Jr., had formed a nonprofit group called the Taxpayers Education Lobby.
Both of them got something they wanted. With Mr. Viguerie's direct-mail help, the schools group received donations from hundreds of thousands of citizens over a decade. Mr. Viguerie, in turn, got a contract filled with exceptional advantages for a hired fund raiser.
Most charities rent lists of names and addresses from a wide variety of sources, and build a roster of members to whom they then turn for repeat donations. Groups often rent out their rosters to others, but try not to let their contributors be flooded with directly competing requests.
In this case, Mr. Viguerie gained total control over his client's donor list, which was gathered at the client's expense. The fact that these people had recently made a donation made their names valuable commodities in the mailing-list marketplace.
The education lobby could send repeat letters to its own donors, but under the contract could not rent out their names. Mr. Viguerie, in contrast, had the right to make any commercial use he wanted of the group's donor list. He could use it to replenish his company's lists, which he constantly rented out to other groups and businesses for profit. He could rent the lobby's member names to competing charities, or use them for mailings of his own. (Lists of people who make actually contributions are typically rented for about $8,000 for a single use of 100,000 names.)
 
Unusual Advantages
 In another unusual feature of the agreement, Mr. Viguerie owned the language in the letters themselves, which he developed at the group's expense, and he later gained control over selection of all subcontractors.
The list control and other provisions of this contract would constitute "a categorical violation of our ethical rules," said Robert Tigner of the Association of Direct Response Fundraising Counsel. That organization, to which many direct-mail companies, but not Mr. Viguerie's, belong, has set guidelines for the industry.
"This was a cash cow for Viguerie," said Denison Hatch, editor of the newsletter "Who's Mailing What" and a direct-mail expert.
Receiving fees for every letter sent, Mr. Viguerie benefited from large, expensive mailings even when there was little chance they would pull in donations. When the contributions fell short, as they often did, the education lobby fell into debt to Mr. Viguerie. The solution to this was more mailing.
It is common for new charities to go into debt initially, but in this case the debt reached $847,000 by 1989, after nine years.
In the strange economics of direct mail, such debts did not necessarily mean that Mr. Viguerie was losing money. Nor did it mean that the education group's chief, Mr. Alexander, was necessarily unhappy. His organization, though virtually under Mr. Viguerie's control, still received thousands of dollars each month out of the donations to cover salaries and expenses.
 
A New Issue
Fear Is Turned Into Contributions
 In early 1986 the Taxpayers Education Lobby, which was collecting $1 million or $2 million, depending on the year, moved from Alabama to Mr. Viguerie's offices in Falls Church, Va.
As it turned out, Mr. Alexander had reasons of his own for leaving Mobile. In late 1986, Federal prosecutors there indicted him for extorting kickbacks in school construction projects between 1974 and 1983. He was convicted and ultimately served 51 months of a 12-year prison sentence, leaving his wife, Fay, in charge of the education lobby.
In early 1987, just before Mr. Alexander entered prison, Mr. Viguerie, his own company struggling with a decline in conservative giving and disastrous investments, met with Mr. Alexander to amend their contract. Henceforth Mr. Viguerie was entitled to four debt-reduction mailings each year, in which the net proceeds would be used to pay off the education lobby's accumulated debt to his company.
In July 1988 Congress provided a plump new target that would draw Mr. Viguerie and Mr. Alexander's organization into a far more lucrative solicitation of elderly Americans. Congress passed the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act, creating insurance for major illness that was financed with a new, graduated surtax on the more affluent Medicare recipients.
As word of the new tax spread among the elderly there was an explosion of protest. Mr. Viguerie arranged for the Taxpayers Education Lobby to do a test mailing, with a letter that critics said was deceptive in its suggestion that all retirees, rather than a minority of the better-off, owed a large new tax. The response was excellent and the education lobby formed a new group, the Seniors Coalition Against the Tax.
With its new mission, the organization's income jumped in one year from $1 million to $4 million, according to its tax returns. But Mr. Viguerie, while managing that effort for large fees, formed a nearly identical, competing group of his own, sending similar high-pressure letters on the same issue and generating a second stream of donations, this time entirely in his hands.
 
Some in Congress Are Angry
 In October 1989, a chastened Congress repealed the new insurance and tax. Angry lawmakers lashed out at several groups for what they described as a campaign of misinformation conducted for profit. In a hearing, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, chairman of the Senate subcommittee on Social Security, condemned a new brand of fright mail that "can terrorize, even constitute an assault of sorts, on, say, the 80-year-old widow living alone who doesn't have anyone to tell her it isn't so."
Senator David Pryor of Arkansas, head of the post office subcommittee, said in a hearing that Mr. Viguerie and his associates "appear to be opportunists who may have acted on the very fringe of the law -- and at the expense of those for whom they claim concern."
 
A Network
A New Generation Of Fund Raisers
 The tax repealed, the schools group originally from Mobile, Ala., continued nevertheless. The Seniors Coalition raised $9 million in 1990 and $8 million in 1991, but large debts to Mr. Viguerie persisted.
"It was like the Wizard of Oz," recalled a person who was involved and spoke on condition of anonymity. "He kept the checks coming in, and he would say to pay no attention to that deficit, to that man behind the curtain."
In early 1990, Mr. Viguerie once again created competition for his client. Millions of elderly people, including Seniors Coalition members, began receiving letters from the Retired Americans Legislative Lobby, Inc.. "I need your immediate help to stop the Government from 'stealing' our Social Security Funds," pleaded its national chairman, George Murphy, whom Mr. Viguerie had hired.
This new organization led Mr. Viguerie to a different questionable maneuver. It was incorporated as a for-profit company, with Mr. Viguerie as sole owner, and intended to combine advocacy with programs like travel services. But little more than a year later, the retired Americans lobby was more than $1.1 million in debt, including $162,000 owed to Mr. Viguerie's business.
In 1991 the company's assets and liabilities were taken over by the United Seniors Association, a new nonprofit group Mr. Viguerie had started. Offsetting the $1.1 million burden of debt with which it was born, according to a United Seniors financial statement, was the transfer of the retired Americans lobby's mailing list, asserted to have a comparable market value.
This high valuation of the mailing list was unusual and open to question, especially since creditors held claims against the list, according to experts in philanthropy. What is definite is that donors to United Seniors have provided money to pay off some of Mr. Viguerie's debts, including to his own companies. "The nonprofit he heads is pulling his profit-making company's chestnuts out of the fire," said Mr. Albrecht of the charities information bureau.
 
Conflicts
Allegiances Hard to Pin Down
 The United Seniors Association in action is replete with conflicting interests.
In principle, tax-exempt advocacy groups are headed by independent directors who see that resources are devoted to the cause. Mass mailings generally hold the potential for abuse. They involve the frequent borrowing and spending of hundreds of thousands of dollars, and decisions about when, what, and how often to mail can easily be tilted to maximize income of list renters and mailers rather than the charity.
United Seniors does not have a standing contract with Mr. Viguerie's direct-mail company, but it does regularly rent lists of potential donors from the firm. Rental fees to Mr. Viguerie in late 1991 alone totaled $199,000, according to the group's financial statement.
All such transactions are conducted at arms' length, Mr. Allen said, and at market rates. But in this case the arms appear to be inherently short, raising questions about where loyalties would lie when the financial needs of Mr. Viguerie's nonprofit group and his for-profit company differed. The United Seniors board consists of Mr. Viguerie as chairman, and four close business associates or friends.
It also appears that at least one director of United Seniors has been paid simultaneously by that group and Mr. Viguerie's company. Speaking through Mr. Allen, the director, Sandra Butler, president and treasurer of United Seniors, refused to say whether she or other officers had dual financial allegiances. But in a Dec. 3, 1991, document dated Dec. 3, 1991, reorganizing Mr. Viguerie's private companies Ms. Butler, who had supposedly been working full time with United Seniors since its incorporation the previous May, signed as an officer of Viguerie & Associates.
 
Invented Direct Mail
 Asked about United Seniors' extensive reliance on lists owned by its chairman, Mr. Allen said: "We have available to us the person who invented direct mail. It would be foolish not to use those resources."
On Jan. 1, as United Seniors was expanding it operations, an angry Taxpayers Education Lobby/Seniors Coalition canceled its fund-raising contract with Mr. Viguerie. He responded with a lawsuit, asserting that under the 1980 contract the group owed him nearly $550,000, plus five cents for every letter it continued to send using ideas his company had developed.
In reply, the organization said Mr. Viguerie's company had "breached its obligation of good faith, loyalty and fair dealing" by "entering into direct competition" with it and "using and abusing the names" of its donors. But Mr. Viguerie, with a written contract, had the upper hand and under a private settlement he is receiving $600,000, according to people involved.
Now, as part of that settlement, donors to the Seniors Coalition are unknowingly sending $4,000 every week to Mr. Viguerie. He also received a copy of the Seniors Coalition donor file, updated as of March 31.
And now, Mr. Viguerie is apparently starting yet another nonprofit organization that will solicit the nation's elderly on much the same issues, churning more money through his companies. In a test letter recently prepared by Viguerie & Associates, former Senator Edward J. Gurney, a Florida Republican, warns on behalf of a new group called the 60/Plus Association that "the Government is now cheating seniors -- by taxing them on their Social Security benefits!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Samples of fund-raising letters sent to millions of elderly Americans this year by the United Seniors Association, a new nonprofit, tax-exempt advocacy group. Nearly all of the group's income has been used to send out more mailings. (Naum Kazhden/The New York Times); Richard A. Viguerie, a New Right movement leader, is chairman of United Seniors. (Lisa Berg for The New York Times) (pg. B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED SENIORS ASSOCIATION (67%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING; ADVOCACY ADVERTISING SENIOR CITIZENS (94%); AGING (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (89%); TAX LAW (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (67%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; VIGUERIE, RICHARD A RONALD REAGAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



402 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: Mapping Out the Wireless-Phone Future

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
A multibillion-dollar telephone revolution that caught almost everyone by surprise is occurring in the United States, with a potential as great as that of the telegraph and transistor radio for changing communications.
Vigorous debate over how to apportion the benefits and costs appears likely to delay pending Government approval of the system and bring the issue before the Clinton Administration. 
 Millions of Americans are now buying cellular phones -- about 7,000 a day, many more than had been anticipated -- to carry around with them in cars, handbags and briefcases. And it appears almost certain that millions more Americans will flock to a new system being developed: shirt-pocket or even fountain-pen-size wireless phones smaller than cellular and not unlike the old Dick Tracy two-way wrist radio.
 
The Handheld Servant
 The system, called personal communications services, or P.C.S. in industry argot, is designed to be more versatile than cellular communications and may -- or may not, depending on the Government decisions ahead -- be much cheaper for everyone to use. The handheld phones will also work as wireless computers to send data to other computers or relay it for fax transmission.
"One thing we know about P.C.S is that it will provide people the electronic equivalent of butlers and secretaries," said James E. Katz, a staff sociologist at Bellcore, the research arm of the regional Bell companies. "It spreads to the middle class what only robber barons once enjoyed."
In less than a decade, the cellular business has grown larger than the McDonald's fast-food empire. And last week, A.T.& T., the world's largest telecommunications company, placed a $3.8 billion bet on its wireless future, saying it seeks to buy one-third of McCaw Cellular Communications, the nation's largest cellular carrier.
 
High Cellular Prices
 Nevertheless, cellular-phone users are finding that the price of making wireless phone calls has remained very high -- in some cases, as much as 80 times the price of a conventional call. And part of the excitement over the new P.C.S. system is its potential for changing that.
"Cellular calls are not cost based; they're insanity based," said Herschel Shostek, a telecommunications consultant in Silver Spring, Md. The history of the cellular industry should serve as a ready guide for what to avoid, others contend.
The cellular industry denies that prices are artificially high, arguing that the costs of constructing radio transmission stations and maintaining equipment have kept the business from being profitable.
The factors for the success of P.C.S. -- consumer cost, industry profit, the speed of putting the system in place -- all depend on how the Government views the cellular experience, on how the new markets will be organized, with how many companies, how many customers each and in what size geographic regions.
The Federal Communications Commission had planned to act as early as the end of the year. But with the change of Administrations and the likely replacement of at least two of the five commissioners, including the chairman, Alfred C. Sikes, the decision will no doubt be delayed.
 
The Prospect
A Portable Phone For Use Anywhere
 The new devices, like cellular phones, will in essence be battery-operated radios. They will communicate via receiving and transmitting stations that feed the calls into the world's network of wired telephones.
Cellular phones work best in open spaces. P.C.S. phones, however, will operate from a great many more locations -- from inside office buildings, elevators, trains and subway platforms, for instance.
Unlike a cellular phone, which can have a range of about 20 miles, a P.C.S. unit will be limited to perhaps a few thousand feet. But it will send signals to many more transmitter stations that themselves will be much smaller, cheaper and easier to install than cellular stations. Where a city might have a dozen cellular stations, a P.C.S system might have hundreds, permitting lower-power transmission and very small phones. It is because the user will never be far from a transmitter that the devices will work within buildings and tunnels.
The phones will be relatively cheap to manufacture because of advances in electronics miniaturization and computing power.
For the present, P.C.S. is not threatening to make cellular immediately obsolete, because P.C.S. has a short range. But in the future, as the technology moves forward, there may be a single wireless phone for each person that will work everywhere. People will carry their phones with them at all times, with one phone number that will reach them at home, office or golf course.
 
Lessons Learned
Cellular Theory Has Fallen Short
 Critics of the cellular-phone industry say it has been given control of a public resource, scarce radio frequencies on the electromagnetic spectrum, in a way that is a bit like deeding it the Brooklyn Bridge and letting it collect tolls from all who cross. Cellular executives counter that their use of the airwaves requires significant investments, and they are still not making any money.
Back in 1982, when the F.C.C. set up rules for the cellular markets, the agency divided the country into 734 territories and permitted no more than two companies to operate in each region. The theory was that competition between two companies in each market would eventually bring prices down, and that so few people would be interested in toting a phone around that no more than two companies per area could thrive. Not so.
The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association says 10 million people now subscribe to cellular services, a level once forecast for the turn of the century. Industry revenue this year may well exceed $7 billion. Within a few years, the personal communication systems are expected to add $30 billion more annually.
The boom defies the high prices.
Lee L. Selwyn of Economics and Technology Inc., sees "no intrinsic reason why a cellular call shouldn't be priced at 10 or 15 cents a minute." But the prices range from 25 cents to more than 90 cents a minute.
Rates vary from region to region, but within each region they are invariably high compared to conventional calls. In Delaware, the lowest-price state in overall charges, a five-minute cellular call costs $2.50, or 80 times the 3.1-cent local call.
Within at least two-thirds of the regions, the prices charged by the two cellular carriers have been found to be almost the same or even identical. The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of the Congress, made that finding in July but said it could not learn why, in part because the industry was not required to provide detailed revenue and cost data.
Critics and industry analysts say consumers are paying for much more than the service they get, like helping one cellular company pay billions to acquire another. The industry does not deny this, but re-emphasizes its own high costs as factors in the fees.
"We have a competitive market today," said Brian D. Kidney, a senior officer at Pacific Telesis. No company, he says, is getting rich from the high prices.
 
The Rule Makers
Trying to Insure More Competition
 If the wireless-phone field is competitive now, the F.C.C. seems eager to make the new personal communications services more so.
A former senior official of the F.C.C, Albert Halprin, the nation's top telephone regulator in the mid-1980's, said: "The amount of competition is not what I would have hoped for. 'Mistake' is far from the right word to describe our action, but it was not perfect. With hindsight, we should have authorized a third carrier."
John Cimko, a longtime F.C.C. official who is the current chief of the commission's mobile services division, agrees. "Two competitors is not an optimal number of players," he said, noting that the commission is determined to mandate at least three companies.
After the F.C.C. divided the country into 734 territories, the companies subdivided these markets into smaller service areas, or cells -- hence "cellular." Each cell has a diameter of between one and 20 miles, depending on population and local obstructions like mountains and skyscrapers, and each cell contains one base station consisting of a transmitter and receiver.
The F.C.C. gave one of the two licenses in each market to the local phone company, in many cases a carrier owned by the GTE Corporation or a regional Bell company like the Nynex Corporation. By including the established communications company in each market, the agency thought the service would be established more quickly. It was.
In most markets, the second licensee was determined by lottery, and the plan led to a total of 120 different cellular companies -- Lilliputians in an industry dominated by Brobdingnagians. Ten carriers, seven of them Bell companies, served 95 percent of the population.
Because the country was cut into so many slices, national service has been difficult to establish, as if there were hundreds of little duchies, each with its own interests. To use a cellular phone while crossing from one market to another, a customer must enter into an expensive "roaming agreement" with the various companies.
The F.C.C. is considering four different plans for P.C.S.:
*Creating 487 territories, based on the Rand McNally Commercial Atlas and Marketing Guide and roughly similar to the cellular markets.
*Creating 194 divisions based on districts now used to determine long-distance calls.
*Creating 47 larger divisions, also based on Rand McNally.
*Creating one grand national market, to be served by a single company or consortium of companies.
 
The Players
Seeking to Secure A Marketing Edge
 The national approach is favored by MCI Communications, the nation's No. 2 long-distance company. MCI proposes a consortium of 5 to 25 companies to manage one national P.C.S. A larger number of regional carriers would handle the billing locally.
The General Accounting Office has urged the F.C.C. to ban current cellular carriers from the P.C.S. market. But the F.C.C. is unlikely to exclude these companies because of their expertise. The G.A.O. has asked, too, that the F.C.C. step up its monitoring of prices.
Established cellular carriers generally favor 487 territories because they could be grafted onto the system.
Start-up companies, like American Personal Communications, favor the 47-segment approach. It would organize cities and towns into the Rand McNally trading area defined by telephone traffic, commuting patterns and mail routes. This could make them profitable faster and more competitive with the big carriers. The District of Columbia, Northern Virginia and Delaware, would, for example, be in one market; they are currently separate.
Pacific Telesis, a regional Bell company, argues that 47 territories would be an administrative nightmare for the West, because it would create a single market embracing San Francisco and a huge diverse, swath of California east to Reno. "If you think Reno is a suburb of San Francisco, then you've got another think coming," Mr. Kidney said.
Under any plan, the consumer is not a guaranteed winner. Prices set by the giants working in the large number of territories might again end up, in the critics' view, higher than necessary, without proper monitoring. But building a convenient manageable system, one that small companies can manage, may take much longer than than necessary.
Still, if an effective, competitive new system is promptly agreed upon, you may soon be able to check in slyly with the boss from your rowboat in Central Park, to fax her your thoughts, say -- at a price you can afford.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New communications units are likely to be smaller than this pocket-size cellular phone. (Motorola)
 
Chart: "Evolution of Wireless Telephones"
 
PRECELLULAR -- Before 1983
 
Used a radio link between the phone and a single base station.
 
only 12 radio channels available in each city, so only 12 calls could be handled at a time. Subscribers often faced long waits for a free channel. Scarcity led to long waiting lists and high rates for service and for calls.
 
Because phone sets had to be able to reach a fairly distant base station, they were bulky and expensive.
 
Local obstructions such as tunnels, buildings and hills tended to make service spotty and unreliable.
 
CELLULAR -- Since 1983
 
Improves on precellular phnes by dividing the service area into dozens of sections (cells) 1 to 20 miles in diameter.
 
Computers automatically switch calls among different frequenceis and cells as users move about or frequencies become crowded.
 
A call ties up a frequency only within a cell, not citywide; more calls can be accommodated.
 
Since phones don't have to transmit as far, they can be smaller and less expensive.
 
Some problems with local obstructions remain.
 
PCS -- 1995?
 
Would improve on cellular by dividing the service area into hundreds of smaller cells, perhaps single blocks or individual building.
 
Could handle even more calls than cellular, using a different part of the radio spectrum.
 
Requiring only a very short range, phone sets could be small, cheap, and more portable.
 
Would work inside buildings and tunnels.
 
Short range may lead to problems handling fast-moving users (such as people in cars on a highway).
 
(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; RATES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (71%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



403 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: In Trenton, Hopes Increase For a White House Payback

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
For reasons ranging from raw politics to philosophy of government, Gov. Jim Florio and some New Jersey lawmakers from both major parties believe the state will fare better with Bill Clinton in the White House than with George Bush.
New Jersey played an important role in Mr. Clinton's victory, going for the Democratic candidate in the Presidential election this year for the first time since Lyndon B. Johnson's landslide of 1964. In addition, Governor Florio's fund-raising machine raised $4 million for Mr. Clinton, the third-highest total for any state. 
 But Mr. Florio said in an interview this week that New Jersey could expect more than the return of political favors. The Democratic Governor believes that Mr. Clinton's government experience, which is exclusively at the state level, will make him more sympathetic to state problems.
"The Administration will be more sensitive to the needs of cities, mass transit and infrastructure," he said.
And Representative Robert E. Andrews, who was elected to his second term in the state's First Congressional District, says the makeup of the new Congress will also work in favor of New Jersey, where Democrats held onto their edge in the state's delegation.
 
A Mood of Cooperation
 Mr. Andrews, who was incidentally the first New Jersey Congressman to endorse Mr. Clinton, said the major difference will be a mood of cooperation.
"Instead of the White House crafting and shipping it over and starting the legislative fight, with vetoes, we can work out legislation beforehand," he said, and move it through Congress with less wrangling.
But he said he also feared a new form of gridlock -- this time between factions of the Democratic Party -- that could repel the electorate.
"The party must produce," he said. "Bill Clinton got a mandate to change, and if he fails, the Democratic Party will be in a deep political deficit for years to come. He could be Jimmy Carter, Part 2."
Mr. Florio said he was convinced that President-elect Clinton would not be wedded to the "big government" solutions that have characterized past Democratic administrations, and the Governor believes that dovetails nicely with New Jersey's plans for significant public-private undertakings.
 
'Very Impressed'
 "He was very impressed with New Jersey's job training program," Mr. Florio said, "and when I took him to Camden to the General Electric aerospace project, he favored that kind of approach."
The General Electric aerospace engineering studio, which will occupy abandoned manufacturing space in economically depressed Camden, is part of a $120 million state effort to revitalize industry.
"What he has talked about is what we have talked about and been doing in New Jersey," he said. "Government would not be the total answer, but it should have a constructive role, be helpful."
He also said Mr. Clinton was "very, very impressed" with the state's broad program to reduce welfare dependency both through job training and education and through denying increased benefits to mothers who have more children while receiving welfare payments.
"He has been very supportive of getting people off welfare and telling them that they have to take responsibility for themselves," the Governor said.
 
'An Obligation'
 A Republican legislative leader, Rodney Frelinghuysen, the majority budget officer in the State Assembly, emphasized the political debt he said the incoming President owes the state.
"We perhaps would not want it that way," he said, "but there is definitely a relationship between the ability to deliver electoral votes and the state's esteem in the eyes of the Administration. Clinton has an obligation to this state."
Mr. Frelinghuysen said he believed that the ability of the Democrats to deliver the state's 15 electoral votes for a Democrat for the first time in 28 years should mean, among other things, a favorable ruling on the state's request for $450 million in disputed Medicaid reimbursements. The Bush Administration has already agreed to pay $126 million of the state's claim, but the rest remains in doubt.
"I have no doubt that the Clinton victory will help the state's position," Mr. Frelinghuysen said.
 
'Good for the State'
 Cliff Zukin, a professor of political science at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University and a former director of the Eagleton Poll, said, "It's good for the state, better than if George Bush had been re-elected. I think Clinton will do some pump-priming, and that should benefit this state."
But Mr. Zukin said he did not think that Mr. Clinton's election, though favorable to the state, would make up for the loss in the Congressional delegation of four very senior members who chose not to run for re-election, among them Robert A. Roe, the Democrat who, as chairman of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee, was instrumental in funneling billions of dollars into the state.
"I'd rather have Roe and the others back, even if we picked up a friend in the White House," Mr. Zukin said.
 
An Imponderable
 What this means to Governor Florio's chances of re-election next year is an imponderable. Mr. Zukin thinks Mr. Clinton's election will have "marginal" benefits for Mr. Florio, who remains unpopular in the polls despite recent modest improvements in his standing.
Given the electoral boost that Mr. Florio and the Democrats gave to Mr. Clinton, Mr. Zukin said, "It's going to be very hard for President Clinton not to come to New Jersey next year and campaign in the gubernatorial race."
Just how much difference that will make remains to be seen, Mr. Zukin said. "It will certainly be more helpful if Bill Clinton has primed the pump for New Jersey by then."
But what is more important, he said, is how Mr. Florio himself is perceived, and whom his opponent turns out to be.
"The first question," he said, "is, do I like Jim Florio and do I want four more years of him, and the voters will probably say no. But the next question is, is the alternative more acceptable, and we don't have the answer."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); WHITE HOUSE (60%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); WHITE HOUSE (60%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL AID (US); FORECASTS US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KING, WAYNE BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



404 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Pay TV Is Looking To Score Knockout

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Once again -- as in the days when Gillette's hyperactive parrot inquired "How are you fixed for blades?" -- Friday night is fight night.
This time, though, the fight -- the Evander Holyfield-Riddick Bowe heavyweight championship bout -- is not on free broadcast television, the way the "Gillette Cavalcade of Sports" ran on NBC, but on pay-per-view cable television. This means that those who enjoy watching two men beat each other up must spend $35 to $40 for the privilege. 
 The fight is being offered by TVKO, the pay-per-view boxing service owned by the media behemoth Time Warner Inc., which has been struggling to establish itself as an alternative to conventional cable networks.
Making TVKO's task particularly daunting is the erratic track record of pay-per-view sports in a weak economy, as typified by the fiasco suffered by NBC and the Cablevision Systems Corporation when they offered pay-per-view coverage of the 1992 Summer Olympics. Their Olympics Triplecast was unanimously derided as the Edsel of televised sports for its meager number of viewers and large losses.
 
Uncertain Enterprise
 TVKO has eliminated its financial risk by taking a flat fee from the fight's promoter instead of a share of any profit -- or loss. Still, the uncertainties over just how many people will watch tomorrow night's fight are indicative of the struggle that TVKO and other companies face in trying to establish pay-per-view as a profitable entertainment medium.
Not only have these companies experimented with events as disparate as boxing, wrestling, live opera and rock concerts, they are also trying many pricing, promotional and sponsorship strategies. At times, the results wind up stinging like a butterfly and floating like a bee.
To lure viewers to Holyfield's defense of his heavyweight title in Las Vegas against Bowe, TVKO and its partners will spend the equivalent of around $10 million for advertising and marketing, a hefty sum even for pugilistic promotions.
Seth Abraham, president at Time Warner Sports in New York, which formed TVKO in December 1990, believes that enough time has passed since the Olympics Triplecast debacle for another attempt at enticing viewers in the 20 million homes with access to pay-per-view into ordering a major sports event.
"The one beautiful thing about this business is that the viewer has a short memory," he said, "looking at it event by event. If an event warrants the time and the money, they'll order."
One who agrees is Marvin Sloves, chairman and chief executive at Scali, McCabe, Sloves Inc. in New York.
"When I was a kid, there were 15 places to watch professional boxing," said Mr. Sloves, a collector of boxing memorabilia. "Now, unless you live in Las Vegas, that doesn't exist. So television has become the only place you can see it."
The promotional campaign is centered on exploiting the fact that the fight is on Friday the 13th, by claiming "Anything can happen." Some might find this a dubious assertion considering that Holyfield's record is 28-0. However, it should be noted, Bowe, the challenger, is 31-0.
"Will Bowe be the next champion?" the advertising asks. "Or just next?"
"The story line is that the outcome of this fight is in doubt," Mr. Abraham said, "and Riddick Bowe can win."
"When people watch television, they give of their time," he added, "but in pay-per-view, you're asking people to give not only of their time, but of their money. So you're promoting the fact it is money well spent."
An added complication is the pattern among pay-per-view customers, he said, in which 75 percent of all orders come in the day before, or the day of, an event.
"No matter how many times we run spots saying 'Order early,' " Mr. Abraham sighed, "it's a nail-biting business. Friday night, at roughly 11:30 New York time, these two men will touch gloves, whether you've done a good job marketing this or a poor one."
The promotional campaign, on television and radio and in newspapers, is aimed as much at local cable system operators, to cajole them into participating in pay-per-view events, as it is at fight fans. (Pay-per-view is offered on a special channel with a signal that is unscrambled when a home orders an event.)
The problem, Mr. Abraham said, is skepticism among operators over pay-per-view's potential. "They wonder if the business is not here yet, if people like TVKO are trying to push the future into the present," he said.
"But you can't have that attitude," he added, "or Edison would have waited to invent the light bulb till 1960."
The best showing to date for TVKO, which had offered about 20 fights, was with its initial heavyweight bout, pitting Holyfield against George Foreman in April 1991. It brought in more than $50 million in pay-per-view billings from 1.45 million homes, "sort of the Roger Maris of pay-per-view events," Mr. Abraham said, mixing his sports.
But TVKO lost $2.75 million in June on its second heavyweight fight, between Holyfield and Larry Holmes, which was ordered by only about 735,000 homes. To avoid such risks, TVKO restructured this fight's financial arrangements; rather than purchasing all rights, TVKO is being paid an undisclosed production, distribution and marketing fee by the fight promoter Dan Duva.
Another risk-reducer was to bring in as a continuing sponsor Anheuser-Busch, which is spending about $1 million to promote its Budweiser beer. Mr. Abraham said he had hoped to enlist the Gillette Company as a second sponsor, but executives there decided against it, "much to my disappointment."
"Gillette is a real natural," he added, "because of its history, but it's very hard to get advertisers in boxing because it's such a violent business."
Appropriately for an event on a Friday the 13th, "we need luck," Mr. Abraham said, "and luck for us means bad weather." Bad weather keeps people home, he explained, close to their television sets, on which they watch pay-per-view boxing, and their telephones, on which they order pay-per-view boxing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newspaper advertisements promoting the Evander Holyfield-Riddick Bowe heavyweight fight are part of an estimated $10 million promotional campaign on behalf of TVKO's pay-per-view telecast of the fight. (TVKO)
 
Table: "Paying to View" provides a sampling of major pay-per-view events, starting with the most recent, showing estimated number of homes buying and price. (Sources: Paul Kagan Associates, TVKO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (83%); CVC (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (83%); CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (69%); SCALI MCCABE SLOVES INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BOXING; PAY TELEVISION; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); PAY PER VIEW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BOXING (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); WRESTLING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; HOLYFIELD, EVANDER; BOWE, RIDDICK EVANDER HOLYFIELD (73%); RIDDICK BOWE (73%); MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



405 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
New York State is threatening to block a plan to resolve the failure of Mutual Benefit Life, saying it treats consumers unfairly. The dispute raises questions about the coverage of 700,000 customers nationwide and about the effectiveness of the state system intended to guarantee the safety of insurance funds. [Page A1.]
Personal communications services could outshine cellular phones. But this depends on important decisions in Washington about how new markets will be organized. [A1.] 
 BCE of Canada is allying itself with Cable and Wireless of Britain. The telecommunications companies will expand globally and improve their ability to compete with American giants. [D1.]
A new airline is being started in Houston. The business-class no-discount carrier, named Ultrair, will try to lure business travelers away from Continental Airlines. [D4.]
A Federal judge issued an order blocking Exxon temporarily from abandoning the Southern California market. [D4.]
Northwest Airlines' unions are said to be close to making concessions in exchange for an equity stake in the company. [D4.]
Zenith faces potentially "serious liquidity problems" that could require the television maker to renegotiate its bank credit. [D4.]
Federated Department Stores earned $31.6 million in the third quarter, in contrast to a loss a year earlier. [D5.]
Gillette was ordered to sell its stake in the Dutch company that owns Wilkinson Sword after the European Commission ruled that Gillette had violated free competition rules. [D5.]
I.B.M. and NBC plan to provide a desktop news service that would essentially turn a personal computer into a television, providing news and information on demand. [D21.]
Turner Broadcasting System reported a 69 percent increase in its third-quarter earnings. [D21.]
 
International
A world trade accord can be reached within the next month, according to the man overseeing the talks. Arthur Dunkel's optimism stems from a conviction that Germany is determined to secure an agreement by the end of the year and from signs that France is moderating its rigid stand. [D1.] French farmers are mobilizing to persuade the Government not to sacrifice their interests in the scramble to rescue a GATT agreement. [A12.]
Twenty donor countries will meet today in Paris to consider a request by the World Bank for a $5 billion grant for environmental projects along with its proposed $18 billion three-year budget. [A8.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks advanced, bolstered by strong gains in drug and retail stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 14.86 points, to 3,240.33. Trading volume was strong. [D10.]
Treasury bonds moved slightly higher overseas in light trading, but the yield on the 30-year bond remained at 7.66 percent. The U.S. market was closed for the Veterans Day holiday. [D17.]
The grain markets were not surprised by the Government's sharp increase in its crop projections for corn and soybeans, with prices moving up strongly after a brief dip at the opening. [D18]
The dollar fell against most leading currencies during a quiet day of trading. Gold prices were up. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Tomorrow's heavyweight bout is the latest pay-per-view event. The companies that offer such events are still experimenting with a variety of pricing, promotional and sponsorship strategies. Stuart Elliott. Advertising. [D1.]
The environmental challenges for Bill Clinton look daunting. For decades, Washington has been setting environmental goals, and the bills are now coming due. Peter Passell. Economic Scene. [D2.]
G.M.'s new management will meet financial analysts today. Wall Street is eager to see firsthand the new leaders' willingness to be specific about the company's plans. Market Place. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); M (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); MACY'S INC (55%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (53%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BONDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (85%); RETAILERS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CORN MARKETS (76%); GRAIN MARKETS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); JUDGES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



406 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
President Clinton: Clean or Lean?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
GEORGE BUSH, scourge of Ozone Man and the spotted owl, is looking for a new job. So now the air and water will be entrusted to more sensible folk, right?
Maybe. President Bush actually played a better environmental game than he talked. He acted responsibly to protect -- dare one say it -- the ozone layer. He clamped down on acid rain. He even signed legislation to keep wetlands wetter at the expense of California's influential farmers. 
 If President Bush's record looks better on reflection, the challenges to President Clinton look more daunting. For decades, Washington has been setting environmental goals, whose bills are only now coming due. And while White House rhetoric on the environment will no doubt veer toward the warm and fuzzy, the behind-closed-doors debates over how much to spend and where to spend it are not likely to be any less fierce in the new Administration than in the current one.
On one side stand traditional environmentalists, who want to get on with the job of just saying no to polluters. On the other are economists and fellow travelers, who view a clean environment as a virtue -- but only one of many. And while some of the battles will be about how much crud is too much, others will be about the least-cost strategies for keeping it away from children and other living things.
Traditionalists like their regulation plain, if not always simple: do it, and do it now. Economics types are partial to market-based plans -- taxes or freely tradable permits to pollute -- that appall the old-timers because they imply that some level of pollution is acceptable.
The best guess is that President Clinton will choose an administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency who is not identified with either side -- Madeleine M. Kunin, the former Governor of Vermont, tops nearly everyone's list. And that suggests the big policy battles will be fought one at a time. Among those looming on the horizon:
Farm runoff. The Clean Water Act has taken a giant gulp from the sewage and industrial waste once dumped into rivers and lakes. Most of the muck still flowing is largely unregulated runoff from farmland. Robert Stavins, a researcher at Harvard's Kennedy School in line for the top planning job at the Environmental Protection Agency, predicts that these "nonpoint" sources will be Topic A in reauthorization of the law.
Traditionalists lean toward tough anti-runoff rules, possibly baited with grants to offset compliance costs. The economists' fix of choice would be effluent taxes or trading systems, in which polluters could buy the right to pollute from those who could cut runoff more cheaply.
Robert Hahn, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, has already designed a trading system for southern Florida, where farmers are under court order to prevent fertilizer runoff from corrupting the Everglades. Estimated savings over the brute-force approach run as high as 80 percent.
Infrastructure. For all the chatter about high-tech data networks and 300 m.p.h. trains, Congress and its suburban constituents are lusting for more money for highways. Dan Dudek of the Environmental Defense Fund thinks a scuffle is shaping over how big a slice of the infrastructure pie will go for environmentally benign mass transit. Perhaps more important, he sees a fight over whether new roads should pay their own way and whether Federal cash could be used as a lever to get cities to charge congestion fees for using roads at rush hour.
Superfund. The widely applauded idea of Superfund is to clean up abandoned toxic waste without first pinning down who is liable for the bill. But the law also demands "permanent" solutions -- restoration of the sites to pre-industrial condition. And that, argues Lester Lave, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University, often means a multimillion-dollar incineration of debris and soil, where a less fastidious scrub and a sturdy fence would keep people out of harm's way.
There will be a push next year for a standard that balances health risks with costs -- one that could save tens of billions of dollars. And as a portent of trouble to come, much of the opposition will come from businesses now making big bucks on the cleanup.
Active waste sites. While abandoned dumps are absorbing cash by the billions, Paul Portney, an economist at Resources for the Future, thinks toxic wastes stored on working business properties could prove an even greater drag on the economy. To add waste or change storage methods, companies must now meet exacting modern standards for the entire site -- even if the old waste poses little threat.
This rule could be modified without changing the law. But like much of the economists' agenda, it will not be altered without a sea change in the way Washington views the environment. And after decades of cleaner-is-better politics, that change will not come easily.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; WATER POLLUTION; AGRICULTURE; PUBLIC WORKS AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ACID RAIN (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); WATER QUALITY (76%); LAKES (72%); WETLANDS (72%); FERTILIZERS (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); DEREGULATION (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); RIVERS (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



407 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: World Bank War on Pollution Faces Ever Sharper Criticism

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The World Bank's request for a special $5 billion grant for environmental projects is running into trouble from donor countries critical of the bank's environmental record.
Twenty donors are to meet Thursday and Friday in Paris to consider the grant, along with the bank's proposed three-year, $18 billion budget. The bank provides more than $20 billion a year to developing countries. 
 Officials in some donor countries argue that the $5 billion should be refused until the bank reconciles its development plans with the demands of conservationists.
A Bush Administration official familiar with the budget issue said the United States would vote against the special fund, which he said was unlikely to be approved in full, for economic reasons as well as environmental.
Critics of the bank's record point in particular to a decision to go ahead with a dam project in India that was condemned as environmentally unsound by experts hired by the bank.
The $10 billion project, in the Narmada Valley, which the World Bank began financing in 1985, has become a paradigm of the conflict.
Environmentalists and many Indians say the dam, designed to provide water and electricity for 80 million people in central western India, would flood forests and farms and displace 1.5 million people.
In response to the criticism, the bank commissioned a review of the dam in 1991. The report criticized virtually every component of the project.
The authors of the study say the bank distorted their findings to justify continuation of the project.
"What I find alarming were the misrepresentations," said Don Gamble, a Canadian who served as chief of staff for the review. "The bank twisted the report to say the opposite of what is actually true."
Bank officials deny that charge.
"We have listened to the report carefully," said Mohammed el-Ashry, the director of the bank's environmental department. "We feel that there has been good progress with the Government of India and we have to build upon it."
Mr. Ashry said the bank would send a team to India in April to monitor the progress of the dam. "If we see that things are going O.K., we will continue with the project," he said.
Mr. Gamble says the handling of the India project will have a direct bearing on the voting for the special fund. "The bank is very vulnerable now in terms of funding," he said.
Officials at the bank say they are not worried.
"We feel that the Indian Government is willing to take the issues raised by the review seriously," said Shawki Barghouti, staff member of the bank's India department. "If the Government in India is committed to its responsibility, there should not be a problem with funding."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (94%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: SOUTH INDIA (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) WORLD BANK (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); SOUTH INDIA (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); 

PERSON: DON GAMBLE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



408 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Stock of Nordstrom Surges

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Wall Street rewarded Nordstrom Inc. today after the retailer showed it could cut costs and deliver strong profits to investors.
Shares of the Seattle-based retailer, which reported healthy earnings Tuesday, gained strongly in Nasdaq trading. Nordstrom's stock rose $3.50 to close at $35.25 with more than 1.5 million shares changing hands. 
 The company posted stronger-than-expected third-quarter income of $23.4 million, or 29 cents a share, up 20 percent from a year earlier. It said sales increased by 7.3 percent.
Many analysts moved to raise estimates and ratings, saying the company's senior executives had made extraordinarily positive comments in a conference call after the earnings were released.
"You had four down earnings and now earnings have turned up," said Daniel Barry, a Merrill Lynch analyst. "I think they will continue to be up throughout next year."
Nordstrom confirmed in an interview that the company told the analysts it expects earnings for the year ending Jan. 31, 1993, to be flat to higher compared with last year's $1.66 a share.
"They suggested the possibility of an up year, they certainly didn't promise it," said Bill Smith, a Smith Barney analyst, who raised his share estimate by 10 cents, to $1.65 in 1993 and to $1.90 in 1994.
Nordstrom, which prides itself on the well-bred manner of its motivated sales force, had defied the economic downturn through the first half of 1991, when it posted solid earnings gains despite a glum retail environment elsewhere. But the retailer stumbled last fall when consumers reduced spending, particularly on higher-priced purchases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (93%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC NORDSTROM INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORDSTROM INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (79%); SALES FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



409 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Steelworkers' Victory Is Bittersweet

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PROVO, Utah, Nov. 11

 BODY:
It was a dirty, sweltering job. But if Tony Pickering could hold on for one more year -- his 20th in the USX steel mill -- he would be fully vested in the pension plan.
He never made it. The steel giant shut down its mill in 1987. Unemployed and nearing 50, Mr. Pickering searched in vain for work. His wife, Andrea, took a minimum-wage job as a security guard. The Pickerings, who have a severely handicapped daughter, cut deeply into a lifetime of savings. 
 "I would look out the window and see my husband walking in circles on the front lawn in pain and frustration," Mrs. Pickering said. "But we were luckier than many. There were suicides. There were divorces. It was a horrible time."
There were hundreds of middle-aged workers like Mr. Pickering, just at the brink of qualifying for benefits, who seemed cursed by a terrible accident of timing. But a Federal court has ruled that it was no accident: that USX idled the 1,900 workers precisely to avoid paying millions of dollars in benefits.
 
Appeal Is Planned
 Damages have not been assessed, but lawyers for the steelworkers say their clients stand to collect more than $100 million. Lawyers for USX, which is based in Pittsburgh, said the damages were more likely to range from $5 million to $10 million.
USX, formerly United States Steel, has said it will appeal the ruling, which was handed down last week. In a statement, the company said it "continues to believe that it acted properly in all respects." The statement noted that the judge had ruled for USX on some charges, including age discrimination.
Lawyers for the steelworkers plan to appeal as well, contending that the ruling does not compensate the 300 workers they say were illegally induced to take early retirement.
The two sides may now negotiate to settle a damage award, but if they cannot agree, the judge in the case, Bruce Jenkins of the Federal District Court in Salt Lake City, has said that hearings will be conducted to determine the damages in individual cases.
In a similar case, the Continental Can Company was accused in 1990 of closing plants to avoid pension costs. In that case, the company reached a $415 million settlement with its workers.
For the steelworkers, it began as an almost quixotic battle, a legal fight between hard-hat workers in steel-toed boots and a corporate behemoth. And despite the times of doubt and despair for former USX workers over the last five years, their campaign was stoked by a righteous anger as hard-pressed men and women scraped together $700 apiece to pay lawyers' bills, never sure that as much as a nickel would come back.
"You know, I had felt kind of worthless when all this happened," Mr. Pickering said. "But I feel like I have gotten my dignity back."
More than 1,000 steelworkers and their families crowded into an auditorium at Provo High School on Tuesday night to listen to lawyers explain the ruling. One of them, Gerry Spence, a flamboyant Wyoming lawyer in boots and fringe coat, likened USX to "an invisible master who laughs and chortles" at the cries of its workers "in that pit -- that place of hell."
He added: "Right now, those scalawags and scoundrels are drinking their martinis and eating chicken cordon bleu, but they are not laughing."
Workers in mesh caps and jeans erupted in cheers. Husbands and wives smiled at one another through glassy eyes. And co-workers clapped one another on the back for enduring the long fight.
But the bitterness toward USX has hardly faded. "Those liars," sputtered Neil Ford, as he shook with contempt for the steelmaker. "They gave us their word they would not close us down. And then they lied."
Mr. Ford, 60, had been given a choice in 1986: retire now or take a 7 percent cut in pay. "We couldn't hardly afford that, so I quit and went to work as a mechanic," he said. But when the mill closed, the economy around Provo soured, and Mr. Ford was laid off from his mechanic's job.
His wife, JoAnn, 58, had never worked outside the home. But as the money ran out, and the days grew bleaker, she set out to find a job. Without skills or a college degree, she settled for a job cleaning houses.
"I had never worked before," Mrs. Ford said, "but you try living on $10,000 a year."
The shutdown of the Provo mill came after a six-month strike by the steelworkers' union. The strike, which the union says was actually a lockout, was settled in the spring of 1987, but USX decided not to reopen the plant; later that year it sold the plant to an investors' group that later named it Geneva Steel.
Many of the former USX workers were hired back, but at reduced wages. And their retirement benefits had to start from scratch.
At the time the mill was sold, USX said, the plant had simply become uncompetitive, running with inefficient machinery. During that era, major American steel companies were losing hundreds of millions of dollars in the face of foreign steel, low-wage competitors and sagging demand.
But the steelworkers sued, and after a nine-week trial in the spring of 1991, Judge Jenkins deliberated for 17 months. In his ruling, he said the company had violated the Employee Retirement Security Act, which prohibits businesses from dismissing workers to avoid paying benefits.
 
Retired Workers' Fate
 The judge said the retired workers were not covered under the Federal act. Lawyers for the steelworkers said they would appeal on behalf of retired workers on the ground that the USX was guilty of age discrimination.
On Tuesday night, Mr. Spence asked the workers for permission to reject any settlement that did not include the retirees. Every hand in the auditorium shot up in agreement.
For people like Don Ford, 37, who said he had endured a "dirty, stinking, filthy job" in the mill because it supported his family, the fight has been worthwhile -- "even if we never got a dime from them."
When he was laid off by the company in 1986, he and his wife, Launie, were within two weeks of closing on their first home. When he lost his job, the bank withdrew the loan. It took two years before the couple could get a loan. By then, interest rates had gone up. It cost them an extra $100 a month.
"But that wasn't the worst of it," he said. "We didn't have any medical benefits when we got let go. And we've got little kids. Do you know what it's like worrying that a kid is going to get hurt or sick -- and you won't have any insurance? It really works on your mind."
He added: "These big corporations have been muscling us labor guys any way they want. They've been beating us to death. Well this time, the little guys won."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Pickering and other workers have won a Federal case against USX to receive their pensions. He stood outside the Geneva Steel factory in Orem, Utah. (Tom Smart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (63%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: USX CORP CONTINENTAL CAN CO INC (63%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (54%); PROVO HIGH SCHOOL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: USX CORP PROVO HIGH SCHOOL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UTAH, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; PENSIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DAMAGES (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); VERDICTS (72%); CLOSINGS (72%); APPEALS (72%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); JUDGES (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); ELDER LAW (71%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); SUICIDE (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK TONY PICKERING (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



410 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Leaves Clinging Like Lint

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIDGEWOOD, N.J., Nov. 11

 BODY:
Jim Castagno's lawn vanished on Sunday, just as it has every weekend for the last month.
The fescue, ryegrass and Kentucky bluegrass that turned his yard into a fuzzy green blanket all summer has come under siege from a half-dozen century-old oaks and a neighbor's Norway maple -- the one with bright yellow leaves the size of catchers' mitts. 
 And once again the hoarse whine of the leaf blower is abroad in the suburbs, where the rake's progress has been blunted by a late-season fallout and a daunting pileup. It is enough to make even doughty homeowners yearn for the gypsy moth caterpillar.
"The oaks dry up nice and hard and crispy," said Mr. Castagno, who knows his enemy well and has chosen to battle it with elbow grease and good-humored resignation. "They curl up on top of the grass and blow right off. But the maple leaves have the consistency of a wet paper towel."
 
More Leaves, and Larger
 Bagged, blown, raked, shredded or still hanging from branches, the leaves city dwellers drive miles to see are the leaves suburbanites have grown to dread. Suddenly it seems as if the suburbs are filled with people whose necks are stiff from looking up and pleading, "How much longer?"
"Oh, a couple of weeks anyway," said Ronald Manning, Public Works Superintendent in Fairfield, Conn., pointing out that a wet summer and a mild early autumn kept leaves on branches a bit later than usual. This week is the start of Fairfield's seasonal pickup, when a contractor hired by the town collects homeowners' leaves, packed like laundry in biodegradable bags along 255 miles of streets.
"There are probably a few more leaves this year than usual," said Edward G. Corbett, a professor of plant science at the University of Connecticut. "We had a particularly good growing season, and that can mean more leaves and leaves that will be somewhat larger than if the season is drier."
But Professor Corbett could not be certain that leaves were falling later than usual.
"That's more a perception that people have, because we don't remember well from one year to the next," he said. "In fact, we were getting calls from people in September wondering why the leaves were turning color and dropping so early."
For Robert Rohl, Public Works Superintendent in Ridgewood, this is small comfort.
"The village concept of Ridgewood is suburbia in the woods," said Mr. Rohl, who scrambles his crews before dawn, sending forest-strength mechanical sweepers to push motley leaf piles toward intersections, where bucket loaders will toss them into dump trucks bound for the village compost heap.
In Briarcliff Manor, in Westchester County, vacuum trucks sweep through the streets for most of November, inhaling the leaf mounds along the curbs.
And in Hempstead, in Nassau County, where leaves must be bagged, any kind of bag is fine. The sanitation trucks pick them up on the usual yard-waste schedule and haul them to a transfer station. There, leaves from Rockville Centre are comingled with those of Valley Stream, Garden City and a half-dozen other places and eventually trucked to composting centers in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
There are at least two reasons for all this raking and carting. The first is that civilization expects neatness. The second, Dr. Corbett said, is that a lawn will suffocate beneath a leaf blanket that deprives grass of sunlight. No lawn, no suburb.
And there is a potential commercial benefit, under a theory put forth by Joe Psota, co-owner of J. P. Home Arama in Hawthorne, N.J. In his view, there is a perceptible rise in do-it-yourselfers trying to overcome the cost of hiring yard crews.
Mr. Psota said he and his brother, John, sell about 2,000 plastic, metal and bamboo rakes a season. They also stock weed eaters, leaf eaters, leaf blowers, Vac 'n' Mulch machines and other shiny lawn gadgets. By the time the snow flies, if it ever does, Joe Psota estimates that he will have sold 450 motorized devices to chop, shred or vacuum, a modest improvement over last season's sales.
"It's the economy," he said. "I think more people are doing it themselves."
On Valley View Avenue in Ridgewood, where Mr. Castagno lives, leaves continue to pour down like cornflakes from a freshly opened box, They stick to pachysandra like lint and to rhododendron bushes like dandruff. Dogs and small children step off sidewalks and disappear in piles awaiting pickup. Curbside parking is impossible.
It's not as if Mr. Castagno and his neighbors haven't tried.
"If everything works, there's a system," he said, referring to his organized approach to efficient leaf removal: mowing, blowing, raking. "The problem is that sometimes the system breaks down, and you can't predict when that will happen. When they get to be really heavy, almost no system works. I guess you'd have to call it schlepping."
Clearly Mr. Castagno believes in mastering his property, and he is fully armed for battle: a gasoline mower with a rear bagger, several rakes and an electric leaf blower with a long extension cord.
"The little push mowers are adequate for a light leaf fall -- in Des Moines, with two or three trees," he said. "But here in the Northeast, where you've got large old oaks, it's not enough."
Mr. Castagno's teen-age children vanish when the lawn does, but he doesn't mind. "I have managed to muster them out on occasion," he said. "But I'm not someone who plays squash or belongs to the tennis club. I'm not a jogger. I'm accused of being a putterer and I plead guilty."
Mr. Castagno's arsenal, while functional, is really horse-drawn artillery compared with what some people can get from hired guns like Don DeVito, a landscaper from Hillsdale, N.J., and his crew of six.
"It'll take us about an hour and a half," he said, shouting over the din of leaf blowers attacking a 15,000-square-foot yard on Fairmont Road.
His squad had arrived at 8 A.M. and fanned out like mercenaries, each with a Ghostbuster-style backpack harnessing a gas blower capable of 200 m.p.h. gusts. An 11-horsepower blower on wheels -- the equivalent of a howitzer in the landscaping business -- stood silently on a lawn once strewn with oak leaves.
By 9:30, there was nothing left but grass and a stunned squirrel. Yet Mr. DeVito knew it was folly to think he had won. The leaves were still falling, like snow on the Donner Party. "We'll be back in about 10 days and maybe," Mr. DeVito said, "be a little fussier with the flower beds."
Roger Fulton of Briarcliff Manor is no lawn professional. Until he retired almost two years ago, he had hired yard crews for 25 years. But now, with the time and the inclination, he has acquired a leaf blower.
"Last year, I reseeded the lawn, so when it came to raking leaves, all kinds of shoots were coming up and I didn't want to hurt them," he said. Hence the blower.
"There's a six-foot pile of leaves out in my mulch pile," he said. "It'll be 12 feet when I'm finished."
But even suburban civilization has its discontents.
"I find that if I'm not careful," Mr. Fulton said, "I blow the leaves right back where they were before."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While city dwellers drive miles to see the leaves of fall, homeowners employ all sorts of devices to remove them. Greg Mihaylo, a landscape worker, fed them into a giant vacuum connected to his truck in Fairfield, Conn. (pg. B1); In the summer the enemies are dandelions; in the fall, they are leaves. Louis Felix, 78, of 1084 Unquowa Road, in Fairfield, Conn., showed off the latest crop he and his neigbhors bagged over the weekend. (pg. B10) (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LEAVES SUBURBS (90%); BOTANY (73%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES JIM CASTAGNO (81%); JOE PSOTA (61%); EDWARD G CORBETT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



411 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Northwest Air Unions See a Deal

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Unions representing Northwest Airlines employees expect to announce by the weekend an agreement about joint concessions in exchange for an equity stake in the company, state and union officials said today.
Financial advisers from some of the unions were meeting today at the company's headquarters with the airline's treasury department for briefings on Northwest's financial condition. They then plan to meet Thursday in Minneapolis with the top officers from each union. 
 "You can characterize these discussions as reactions to a crisis," said Bob Benner, an official in the Minnesota Department of Trade and Economic Development who is Gov. Arne Carlson's point man on issues involving Northwest Airlines. "Or you can look at them -- as we do -- as very prudent measures taken by a company."
 
No Specifics Yet
 The meetings come at a time when Northwest has less than $300 million on hand and no credit reserve. Two weeks ago the airline tapped the remainder of its $600 million credit line.
"I would expect what we'll see Friday," Mr. Benner said, "is a statement from the unions indicating their intent with respect to negotiating with the company."
Lisa Hirschman, vice president of Local 2000 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents Northwest flight attendants, said, "Hopefully, as of Friday, I think you can expect to see a general idea and philosophy rather than specifics."
Union officials said the meetings were not hastily arranged in reaction to any recent dire news, such as a trade journal's report Monday that a deal collapsed for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines to invest up to $500 million in new money in Northwest, union officials said.
A spokeswoman for KLM said there never was a deal, and Northwest declined to comment on the report.
"I don't think there's any new information; I don't think anything has changed over the last month or so," said Curt Kruse, a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association.
A spokesman for the International Association of Machinists agreed.
KLM already holds a 49 percent stake in Northwest, having provided $400 million to back a $3.6 billion leveraged buyout of Northwest in 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); AF (PAR) (53%); AF (AMS) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (53%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (64%); 

PERSON: BOB BENNER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



412 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Zenith May Face a Credit Squeeze

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The Zenith Electronics Corporation, the only television maker still based in the United States, warned today that it faced potentially "serious liquidity problems" that would require it to renegotiate its bank credit.
In a filing with Securities and Exchange Commission, Zenith said it was in talks with the Bank of New York to relax a credit agreement requirement that it maintain a net worth of $229 million at the end of every quarter. 
 "If the discussions do not result in the covenant being modified, the company is expected to be out of compliance with the credit agreement beginning as of the date fourth-quarter results are reported" in February, Zenith said.
 
 
'Full Range' of Plans
 A company spokesman said Zenith was considering "a full range of financing, strategic or other contingency plans."
The spokesman declined to say whether Zenith was considering filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection and said more details would be reported "when the time is appropriate to disclose them."
Dennis Moran, an electronics industry analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc., downgraded Zenith's stock to a hold from a buy and said he would recommend investors sell unless Zenith obtains "intermediate financing" within 30 days.
"By intermediate financing, we generally mean the sale of a major asset or securing an investment partner," Mr. Moran said.
Zenith's shares fell $1.125 today to close at $5.625. The 16.7 percent loss was the second largest on the New York Stock Exchange.
Last month, Zenith posted a larger-than-expected loss of $41.8 million for the third quarter, and the company had said it expects a loss for the full year, in part because of television price cuts by its competitors.
Mr. Moran said he expects Zenith to return to profitability next year, "depending on an improved consumer economy and the company getting additional and permanent working capital."
Zenith also said last month that it would eliminate about 15 percent of its 2,600 salaried work force in the United States and would cut its Mexican work force by an unspecified amount. Zenith, based in Glenview, Ill., assembles many of its televisions in Mexico.
 
 
Public Offering
 On Aug. 12, Zenith proposed a public offering of eight million shares of common stock, but the company withdrew the offer after it and its investment bankers reviewed the impact of third-quarter results, market conditions, October television price reductions and near-term business prospects.
In addition to televisions, Zenith, with 1991 sales of $1.32 billion, makes or sells picture tubes, computer monitors, videocassette recorders and camcorders.
The company is also involved in a high-stakes competition to develop a standard for high-definition television, or HDTV, a new technology that will produce movie-quality images for a variety of business and consumer applications.
The Federal Communications Commission is expected to choose next year between the standard developed by Zenith and that of several rivals.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Mired in Red Ink Again" tracks quarterly earnings since the fourth quarter of 1989 and daily closing stock prices in 1992. (Sources: Company reports, Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (74%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); ELECTRON TUBE MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); WORKING CAPITAL (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (62%); 

PERSON: DENNIS MORAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



413 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Bond Prices Higher Overseas

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Government bond prices moved higher yesterday in light overseas trading. The government-securities market in the United States was closed for the Veterans Day holiday.
In late London trading, the price of the Treasury's 30-year bond was up 3/32 point, or 93.75 cents for each $1,000 in face amount. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, was 7.66 percent, unchanged from the closing yield Tuesday in New York. 
 Bond prices rose on Tuesday in New York following a solid auction of 10-year notes and a new report that showed inflation remained under control. The next test of the market will come today, when the Treasury is scheduled to auction $10 billion in 30-year bonds.
Other key events this week for bond traders will be Friday's report on consumer prices for October, as well as the latest retail and automobile sales figures.
 
Other Maturities Rise
 In the secondary market for Treasury bonds in London, short-term maturities rose 3/32 point and intermediate maturities were up 3/32 point, according to the Telerate Inc. financial information service.
The movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, which measures price movements on all outstanding Treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, was not quoted because of the holiday.
The same applied to the Federal funds rate, which is the interest rate charged for overnight loans between banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (68%); TRI (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (96%); BOND MARKETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



414 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: A Hopeful Outlook On GATT

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 11

 BODY:
After a series of disappointments, including two occasions this year on which he was told a deal had been made only to find it had not, Arthur Dunkel, the man overseeing crucial world trade talks, says he believes an accord can be reached within the next month.
"We have reached rock bottom, and now there is a chance to bring the Uruguay Round back at full speed in the next few weeks," Mr. Dunkel, the Secretary General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, said today. "Everyone knows that if we do not succeed in a very short time, it will be a very long time before we have another opportunity." 
 The Uruguay Round is the name given to the long-stalled six-year-old GATT trade talks involving 108 nations. A successful resolution could stir the world economy from its long downturn and eventually add about $100 billion to output. The negotiations have been blocked mainly by a festering dispute between the United States and France over agricultural subsidies.
 
France Signals Moderation
 Mr. Dunkel, a mild-mannered 60-year-old Swiss diplomat, indicated that his optimism stemmed from a conviction that Germany was determined to secure an accord by the end of the year and from signs that France was moderating its previously rigid stand.
Mr. Dunkel and officials close to him disclosed that the German Government had wanted a trade accord at the Munich world economic summit meeting in July. But Chancellor Helmut Kohl was sensitive to French concerns, repeatedly expressed in Munich, that a GATT agreement angering the country's large farming sector might tilt the French referendum in September on European unity to a vote of rejection. In fact, France voted narrowly in favor of European integration.
Thus, an understanding emerged in Munich that after the French referendum on Sept. 18, a world trade agreement would be urgently sought, and the final communique spoke of a year-end deadline.
"I know personally that Mr. Kohl does not want his summit added to those which failed to come through on their commitments in this respect," Mr. Dunkel said. Previous world economic summit meetings have set deadlines for the trade talks that have not been met.
Because of its close alliance with France, Germany is the one country in Europe with the power to influence the French Government. Mr. Dunkel noted that the French President, Francois Mitterrand, had spoken this week of the "paramount importance" of a world trade agreement -- apparently indicating a shift in tone.
Mr. Dunkel spoke in his wood-paneled office at GATT headquarters here, the day after he received a mandate from ambassadors to the trade organization to visit Brussels and Washington in a bid to encourage an accord.
His talks will begin on Thursday in Brussels, where he will meet with the European Community's Agriculture Commissioner, Ray MacSharry, and its External Relations Commissioner, Frans Andriessen, the European Community announced today. Mr. Dunkel will meet on Monday in Washington with Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, and Edward R. Madigan, the Agriculture Secretary.
 
Hard to Get Figures
 Illustrating the complexity of the trade talks, Mr. Dunkel said it was much harder to get clear figures on agriculture than in other areas of diplomacy like arms negotiations.
For example, on the dispute over European subsidies for oilseeds, which led Washington this month to threaten to impose 200 percent tariffs on some European goods on Dec. 5, the European Community has offered to take 15 percent of the land producing the seeds out of cultivation next year and said this should reduce production to about 9.5 million tons from last year's 11 million.
"But," Mr. Dunkel said, "then you can get a U.S. agricultural expert saying that with fertilizers and pesticides, you can actually increase oilseed production even as you take land out of cultivation." The dispute, he said, then switches to means of verifying and enforcing a reduction.
 
U.S. Wants Enforceable Pact
 "The Europeans say, 'If there's a problem, we'll sort it out,' " Mr. Dunkel said. "But the Americans say: 'No way. We know it takes at least three years to sort anything out with you. We need an enforceable agreement.' "
Such is the difficulty of the discussions, one GATT official said, that on two occasions this year, Mr. Dunkel was told by negotiators that an agreement had been reached in the world trade talks, which are separate from but linked to the oilseed dispute. But when the proposed deal went to government leaders, it collapsed.
Despite these difficulties, Mr. Dunkel said, a combination of the worsening world economic situation, the growing importance of trade and increasing political impatience could now bring a solution.
"The end of the cold war means that economics are the ground on which international competition and cooperation take place," he said. "That's why opening the world's trading system and avoiding conflict is vital."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; FRANCE; UNITED STATES FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); REFERENDUMS (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); AGRICULTURE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; DUNKEL, ARTHUR HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (54%); HELMUT KOHL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



415 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money Market Fund Yields Are Lower in Latest Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of tax-exempt and taxable money market funds were down in the week that ended yesterday, according to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, which tracks 862 funds.
Tax-exempt yields declined after rising for two consecutive weeks. Analysts at IBC/Donoghue's noted that yields of such funds have moved up and down in a very narrow range in the last few weeks. 
 Assets of tax-exempt money funds rose by $1.3 billion in the week, to a total of $97.9 billion. The average number of days to maturity of securities held in tax-exempt funds fell by one, to 64.
The seven-day average compounded tax-exempt yield fell to 2.25 percent, from 2.35 percent last week, with the simple yield at 2.22 percent, down from 2.32 percent a week earlier. The 30-day average compounded yield was 2.23 percent, and the simple yield was 2.21 percent. Both were off by 4 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
Not adjusting for state taxes, the taxable equivalent yield of the seven-day compounded yield for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket was about 3.12 percent; for investors in the 31 percent bracket, it was 3.26 percent.
In surveying tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said the Strong Municipal Money Market Fund distributed by Strong/Corneliuson Capital Management had the best yield, at 2.87 percent. But the top yield was 24 basis points lower than last week's best.
In the category of taxable money market funds, yields slipped as the flow of cash into those funds eased considerably. Analysts noted that only $665 million moved in, bringing the total to $483.7 billion. Of that total, institutional money fund assets grew by $506 million, to $166.2 billion, with retail, or consumer, assets up by $159 million, to $317.5 billion.
 
Talk About Fed
 Walter S. Frank, Donoghue's chief economist, said yields appeared to have hit bottom. He said that while there is talk again of a possible rate cut by the Federal Reserve by the end of the year, "it is not likely."
The average seven-day compounded yield for taxable funds was 2.78 percent, down from 2.79 percent last week, and the simple yield was 2.74 percent, down from 2.75 percent. The 30-day average compounded yield was 2.80 percent and the simple yield 2.78 percent, both down a basis point.
Analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in portfolios fell by a day, to 65.
The Standby Reserve Fund, distributed by Cowen & Company in New York, which had the top yield for the previous weeks, had the best return this week, with a yield of 3.79 percent.
For government-only funds with assets under $100 million, the United Services Government Securities Savings fund, distributed by United Services in San Antonio, had the top yield, at 3.95 percent.
Elsewhere, the average yield on bank money market accounts remained unchanged at 2.79 percent.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Nov. 12, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 		Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	 	 	 	New York	2.73	2.89	Los Angeles	2.80	2.94	Chicago	2.78	3.10	San Francisco	2.77	2.84	Philadelphia	2.94	2.99	Detroit	2.87	3.04	Boston	2.81	3.01	Houston	2.69	3.10	Dallas	2.65	3.06	Washington	2.85	3.14	Bank Rate Monitor Index* 2.79	3.01	 	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" tracks Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts since July. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, Fla., and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, Holliston, Mass.); "Maturities" tracks average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios over the past year. (Source IBC/Donoghue's)
Table: "Regional Rates Table"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



416 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Berlitz's Net Plunges 88%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J., Nov. 11

 BODY:
Third-quarter sales increased 11.4 percent for Berlitz International Inc., but profits were off sharply because of higher operating costs and the global recession, the language services concern reported today.
Net income fell 88 percent, to $700,000, for the quarter, or 4 cents a share, from $5.7 million, or 14 cents a share, in the third quarter a year earlier. 
 Berlitz said third-quarter sales of instruction and translation services and of products such as travel and language phrase books reached $69.6 million, compared with $62.5 million a year earlier.
However, operating expenses rose 19.4 percent, to $68.4 million from $57.3 million, cutting operating earnings to $1.2 million from $5.2 million.
Last week, the Fukutake Publishing Company of Japan, which is planning a merger with Berlitz, asked to renegotiate the deal because of weak financial results in preliminary third-quarter figures. In trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, Berlitz's share price ended down 37.5 cents at $17.875.
"The nine months of 1992 have been difficult for Berlitz," Joe M. Rodgers, chairman and acting chief executive officer, said. "Nonetheless, the company has experienced growth and remained profitable throughout this period despite a worldwide economic downtown experienced in Berlitz's major markets."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BTZ (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BERLITZ INTERNATIONAL INC BERLITZ INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); FUKUTAKE PUBLISHING CO LTD (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERLITZ INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (77%); PUBLISHING (70%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



417 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: A Matisse Sells for $14.5 Million

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The art market got a stunning shot in the arm last night at Christie's sale of Impressionist and modern paintings, drawings and sculpture. Much to even the experts' surprise, Matisse's "Harmony in Yellow," from 1927-28, which was being sold by Dr. Philip Sandbloom, a Swedish collector, set a record price of $14.5 million. The previous record for the artist, in 1989 at the height of the market, was $12.4 million when "Woman With a Red Umbrella Seated in Profile" (1919-21) sold at Sotheby's in New York.
But it wasn't just the Matisse that made the evening a success for Christie's. Another important work, Monet's "Waterlily Basin," from 1919, sold for $12.1 million, soaring way above the auction house's estimate of $7 million to $8 million. It was being sold from the estate of Ralph Friedman, a Manhattan philanthropist and former director of Bank Leumi Le Israel's North American operations. 
 Both sales proved that despite the doldrums the market has been in for the last two years, great works of art still command great prices.
The auction house refused to reveal the names of the buyers. These bids came over the telephone from the United States and Europe, as did most of the bids of the evening.
The evening totaled $70,694,100 in sales, well above the auction house's low estimate of $53.5 million. Of the 76 works up for sale, only 17 failed to sell.
 
Compared With Sotheby's . . .
 The auction stood in sharp contrast with Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern art on Tuesday evening. With the exception of one great price, $11 million, for "Asia," a Matisse that sold to the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, nearly half the works failed to sell and of those that did, many sold either at or well below their low estimates. The sale totaled $35.6 million, well below Sotheby's estimate of $59 million to $80 million.
 
'We're on Our Way Up'
 "I'm extremely surprised," said a dazed Christopher Burge, Christie's president in New York, after the sale last night. "After Tuesday night we weren't quite sure what was going to happen."
Many experts said they knew Christie's sale would fare better than Sotheby's but no one said they expected that some of the prices would climb as high as they did in this economic climate. "Clearly we've hit bottom and we're on our way up," said David Tunick, a New York dealer. "Christie's got the estimates right this time. They also had the benefit of better pictures than Sotheby's."
The salesroom was packed with leading experts and collectors from around the world and the mood was immediately buoyant. What helped get the sale off to a positive start was that Christie's began the evening by offering the 24 works from the estate of Richard and Dorothy Rodgers. Not only was it a varied collection, with a wide price range of artworks, but clearly the reserves (the minimum price that is agreed upon by the seller and auction house) were kept low, therefore the collection was 100 percent sold.
Picasso's "Guitar and Newspaper," from 1914, for example, was estimated to fetch $3 million to $4 million. It sold for $2.2 million to a private American collector. Another Picasso, "Spanish Dancer," from 1901, also went below Christie's estimate of $1.8 million to $2.5 million: it sold for $1.32 million. There was a lot of activity when Giacometti's sculpture "Falling Man," from 1950, sold for $1.5 million, way above the $600,000 to $800,00 estimate. And four bidders fought for Magritte's "Empire of Lights," from 1953, which was estimated to bring $400,000 to $600,000. It sold to a telephone bidder for $528,000.
 
'Buyers Were Very Focused'
 The sale was filled with more expensive works that the auction house had seen since 1990. A Degas, "Two Dancers in Green Dresses," from 1895, estimated to bring $4 million to $6 million, sold for $7.5 million to a European collector. Surprisingly, seven works sold for over $2 million, quite a change from last fall, when bidding tended to halt when an artwork reached $1 million. "There weren't people bottom fishing," said Michael Findlay, the senior director of Christie's Impressionist and modern painting department. "Nor did the room feel like one entity. Buyers were very focused on works they were interested in."
If any one artist dominated the last two nights it was Matisse. It had been years since an important Matisse had found its way to the auction block and this season both by the coincidence of estate offerings and a hefty number of collectors trying to cash in on the success of the Museum of Modern Art's blockbuster Matisse retrospective. Christie's offered six Mattises for sale last night.
"Flowers from Nice," a colorful 1925 interior being sold by the Rodgers estate, fetched $528,000, just below Christie's estimate of $600,000. Another Matisse from the estate, a drawing called "Lydia in a Romainian Blouse," from 1936, sold right above its high estimate, selling for $165,000.
 
A Low Sale and No Sale

 "Still life With Pitcher and Fruit," painted in Toulouse, France, in 1898, estimated to bring $500,000 to $700,000, sold for $451,000. "The Bridge at Sevres a St. Cloud," from 1917, estimated at $550,000 to $650,000, failed to sell. Bidding stopped at $380,000. Still, the works fared far better than the Matisses at Sotheby's on Tuesday night, many of which never sold.
The sale had a few other disappointments. A Paul Klee, "Clown With Child," estimated at $1.4 million to $1.8 million, brought no higher bid than $1.1 million. But surprisingly, every other million-dollar work at the auction sold. A Chagall, "Over Vitsk," didn't arouse much interest either. Bidding stopped at $280,00, well below the $500,000 low estimates.
"Of course, the sale had its hiccups," Mr. Burge said. "But when people wanted something they were prepared to go to battle. We saw some old faces returning to the market and many new buyers. There was bidding from all over the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matisse's "Harmony in Yellow" (1927-28) sold for $14.5 million last night at Christie's. The auction house estimated that it would fetch $5 million to $7 million. (Christie's New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); LUMI (TASE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (70%); EUROPE (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); BANK LEUMI LE-ISRAEL BM (55%); CHRISTIE'S IMPRESSIONIST (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIE'S CHRISTIE'S IMPRESSIONIST (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (70%); EUROPE (69%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ART AUCTIONS (92%); PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; SANDBLOM, PHILIP (DR); FRIEDMAN, RALPH (PHILANTHROPIST); MONET, CLAUDE (1840-1926); MATISSE, HENRI (1869-1954) MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



418 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Is Testing Family Values' Value

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Studio executives, producers and agents, who overwhelmingly supported President-elect Bill Clinton and deplored Republican attacks on the town, are developing an array of movies with a trendy theme. It's called family values.
Not that Hollywood is suddenly rejecting violent or sexually explicit movies. Or that it is embracing precisely those family values espoused by the G.O.P. during the party's nominating convention last summer. But there is a new wave of films, having to do far less with politics than profits, that are family-oriented, generally happy or tearful (or both), and rated PG or PG-13. 
 Several of these films will appear over the Thanksgiving-Christmas season, and two of them are viewed by exhibitors as the only sure-fire successes of this important season. They are Disney's "Aladdin," which opened today in New York and Los Angeles and will open in the rest of the country on Nov. 25, and "Home Alone 2: Lost in New York," opening on Nov. 20. Many more of them will flood into theaters in 1993.
 The most obvious reason for the plethora of warm-hearted movies is the uncertain national economy, which has led studios to look for scripts meant to lure the widest possible audience, meaning families, who need an alternative at the local mall to "Basic Instinct" or "Lethal Weapon 3."
 
When It's Your Children
 "The studios and financiers are very concerned that there's a very big family market to be tapped, and they're looking aggressively now to get film makers to make this material," said Jack Rapke, co-head of the motion picture department at the Creative Artists Agency, the largest in town.
Some have also suggested that the growing number of yuppie studio executives who now have children of their own may have something to do with the feel-good flood too; when it's your children who are going to see "Basic Instinct," maybe the whole business looks different.
Although Hollywood executives are fond of pointing out this latest trend, the phrase "family values" hardly carries the same meaning here as that expressed by Vice President Dan Quayle, his wife, Marilyn, Patrick J. Buchanan and others before and during the Republican convention. There, it was generally viewed as a phrase that implicity criticized alternative life styles, and was even seen as rebuking working mothers. In Hollywood, the term translates into far more predictable themes.
 
Beauty, Love and Tears
 To movie executives, a film like "Beauty and the Beast," for example, espouses the not-very-provocative notion that beauty is only skin deep. The message of a new Mel Gibson romance, "Forever Young," rated PG and opening Dec. 18, is that love transcends time and age. The film has left preview audiences in tears.
Every bit as important as the theme, of course, is the track record. Relatively inexpensive films like "Home Alone" and "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids," as well as the more costly "Beauty and the Beast" were major hits, in part because children returned several times to see them. The low-budget "Sister Act," which may not exactly have a family-oriented plot (it's about a zesty night club singer who hides in a convent after she views a gang rub-out) but could be said to espouse "family values," was a surprise hit, luring children as well as their parents.
In recent weeks, a film that has done much better than expected is Robert Redford's PG-rated drama "A River Runs Through It," about two brothers and their father, and their love of fly fishing, which is drawing a big family crowd.
 
Not Automatic Moneymakers
 Joe Roth, who is leaving as chairman of 20th Century Fox and setting up an independent production outfit at the Disney studios, cautions that family movies are not instant moneymakers, however. A number of them have collapsed on their first weekend. These include such duds as "Newsies," a Disney musical; "Ferngully," an animated film with an environmental theme, and "Wild Hearts Can't Be Broken," a family film about a blind girl who learns to rides horses. "Some of these movies aren't worth a plug nickel," he said. "The trick is to come up with movies that actually aren't too soft, that play through the spectrum of the family."
Nor is the response to the family film boomlet all positive, especially among some directors and writers who are plainly anxious about the trend and the direction in which Hollywood seems to be moving. Ron Shelton, the screenwriter and director of such hits as "Bull Durham" and "White Men Can't Jump," said in an interview:
"It's discouraging. Studios are going the way of television networks. What 'mainstream' really means is the lowest common denominator. The reason for this is that television people are now running a lot of the studios. You sit with these people and they don't know what a movie is. It's television on a large screen. People who used to run studios were different. Sure, you couldn't talk about life experiences because they didn't have any. But you could talk in terms of movies. You could say, 'I have an idea that's a cross between 'Sunset Boulevard' and 'Straw Dogs,' " and they'd know what you're talking about. These people today have never heard of Billy Wilder. Or Sam Peckinpah. They don't know movies!"
 
'So Many Trends'
 Paul Mazursky, whose many credits include "Down and Out in Beverly Hills," and "Enemies, a Love Story," is more philosophical. With a sigh he said: "The word 'mainstream' is what I hear a lot. Will it last? I doubt it. None of these cycles last. The mindless pictures just seem to make more money. In the 20 years I've been making movies, there have been so many trends. Today, it's this one; two years from now it'll be something else."
But for now, studios seem to be adding to their list of family films, either in development or production, almost daily. Next year's releases from Warner Brothers include "Dennis the Menace," which is inspired by the Hank Ketchum comic strip; "Free Willy," about a boy who forms a close relationship with a whale; "The Secret Garden," based on the children's classic about an orphan girl who lives with her uncle in a forbidding manor house; "Mr. Magoo," a live-action Steven Spielberg feature about the myopic comic character, and "The Nutcracker," starring Macaulay Culkin and the New York City Ballet.
Universal's list includes "Cop and a Half," about a detective and an 8-year-old boy; "For Love or Money," about an ambitious hotel concierge in New York; "The Air Up There," with Kevin Bacon as a basketball coach who goes to Africa to find a player, and "Jurassic Park," a super-expensive Spielberg extravaganza about dinosaurs.
 
From Columbia and Disney
 Columbia's list includes "Groundhog Day," about a selfish television weatherman with one day to live; "Amos and Andrew," a satire about race; "Calendar Girl," about a group of teen-agers in 1962 who want to meet Marilyn Monroe; "Josh and S.A.M.," a fantasy adventure, and "I'll Do Anything," a musical written and directed by James L. Brooks.
As might be expected, the Disney list is considerable, with such classics as "The Adventures of Huck Finn" and "The Three Musketeers," as well as a Bette Midler comedy about witches, called "Hocus Pocus."
"The number of these family films is unusual," said Rick Nicita, co-head of Creative Artists' motion picture department. "But I don't think studios have created a mandate that says, 'Let's make family films.' With rising costs, they want to appeal to the broadest possible audience. The higher the rating, the fewer people are excluded. It's really economic rather than conceptual. Dollars and cents. A desirable G-rated film has got to make more money than a desirable NC-17."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (53%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); WORKING MOTHERS (72%); THANKSGIVING (69%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



419 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
A Long, Long Leap From Emerson et al. to Stalin

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:
Making Americans
An Essay on Individualism and Money
By Quentin Anderson
264 pages. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. $21.95.
You come away from Quentin Anderson's new book scratching your head. What he seems to be saying in "Making Americans: An Essay on Individualism and Money" is that we should beware the sort of self-celebrating visions practiced by the likes of Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman, because they can lead to the errors that certain intellectual absolutists made much later when they embraced Stalinism. 
 Can Mr. Anderson be serious? This seems an over-simple conclusion to a book that begins by celebrating the powerful albeit "subversive" force that Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman represent. In his early chapters, the author proposes that 19th-century Americans, lacking Europe's "background of established classes, institutions and traditions," found themselves "more alone with money -- had, that is, fewer defenses against the imaginative domination of acquisition, possession, the reduction of all questions to those of exchange values -- than any Western people who had heretofore existed."
In response, Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman wrote exemplary texts promoting the visionary powers of the self. "Nothing less than an epistemological overturn could rescue the self from fragmentation," Mr. Anderson writes. "To know the scene of existence was to have an undivided consciousness of it."
Later, at a transitional stage of his thesis, he shows how Hawthorne "was assured that the identities we achieved issued from the character of our ties to others rather than from an inclusive vision of things"; how Melville was "a brilliant diagnostician of the preoccupations of visionaries as well as the self-interested," and how in Henry James's mature fiction "you came to know the imagined situation with the completeness of an ideal Emersonian vision."
Only in his seventh and concluding chapter does Mr. Anderson announce that "the consequent isolation" of those who attempt to "take the world for their object" is "grievously harmful to our future prospects." So a reader might conclude that what the author means to decry is only particular romantic tendencies.
But two dozen pages later he writes of Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman that "these 19th-century Americans bypassed society in behalf of a big idea." He continues, "The imagined cancellation of the whole American social order among the Stalinists is once more an instance of American individualism of the kind so brilliantly represented by the earlier trio, who abandoned society and substituted 'nature' or a picture of the order of being in general." Maybe that "trio" should have been called up before the House Committee on Un-American Activities!
There are two possible explanations for this book's surprising foreshortening. One is that Mr. Anderson -- a Fellow of the New York Institute for the Humanities at New York University and the author of a previous book called "The Imperial Self: An Essay in American Literary and Cultural History" -- is guilty of his own form of intellectual imperialism by projecting 20th-century ideology retroactively into the 19th century.
A reader is tempted to this conclusion by a certain streamlining of history in "Making Americans." Mr. Anderson never explains what he means by the "established classes, institutions and traditions" that he believes provided a background to "the rising ascendancy of commerce" in Europe. Much later he defines literary modernism in Europe exclusively in terms of that rise of commerce, completely ignoring the various scientific revolutions that altered the human sense of reality.
And finally, citing an example of misguided intellectual imperialism, he lambastes a New Yorker magazine "Talk of the Town" piece for trying to make a distinction between Marxism and Hitlerism, as if "Das Kapital," with its belief in historical materialism, were responsible for Stalinist horrors to the precise extent that "Mein Kampf," with its outright racism, brought about the death camps. By such reasoning, he might as well have pronounced equal blame on Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations" for promoting the nonhuman agency of the free-market economy.
A second explanation for the peculiar shape of Mr. Anderson's book is that it comprises a series of essays originally written with different objectives in mind. Further evidence of this is the book's peristaltic habit of repeatedly summing up what it has said so far and what it is all about.
I prefer this latter justification. As dense and annoying as "Making Americans" is (the title, echoing Gertrude Stein's "The Making of Americans," refers both to the tendency of Americans to "make" their world and to the effect this tendency has had on shaping the character of Americans), it remains sporadically brilliant. The readings of Whitman, Melville and Henry James are alone worth the price of admission. And at the other end of the historical spectrum you have to admire the author's angry defense of Diana Trilling's once-controversial essay "The Other Night at Columbia: A Report from the Academy," (1958) which was attacked at the time of its publication in Partisan Review for its personally engaged response to a poetry reading by the young Allen Ginsberg.
So "Making Americans" is highly recommended as a collection of essays. Only its conclusion suggests the making -- and climbing into -- of an ideological Procrustean bed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quentin Anderson (Alan Anderson/Harcourt Brace Jovanovich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MAKING AMERICANS: AN ESSAY ON INDIVIDUALISM AND MONEY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (56%); 

COMPANY: HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (77%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, QUENTIN; LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER QUENTIN ANDERSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



420 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: ON HORSE RACING;
N.Y.R.A. Confronts a Political Forum

BYLINE: By Joseph Durso

 BODY:
The people who run racing in New York State must believe in long shots. At least, they seem to be betting on a long shot or two when they propose a blueprint for horse racing in the 21st century and ignore the political hurdles facing them in the 20th century.
They sent half a dozen of their heavy hitters to testify for two hours Tuesday before the Governor's Commission on Racing in the 21st Century. They also submitted a 140-page report with 31 appendixes that portray racing as a $1.4 billion resource in the state's economy. They even proposed that it be run in the next century by the same organization running it now, the New York Racing Association, which they described as "both business and sport." And, they might have added, political hot potato. 
 Before the day was gone, the N.Y.R.A. executives not only were being upstaged by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who created the commission, but were being whipped by the Governor for making too much money. He especially targeted one of the officials who had just testified before his commission, Gerard J. McKeon, president of the racing association, who made $261,000 in salary and bonuses in 1990.
"I'll tell you," the Governor said, "a lot of us are in the wrong line of work. That's an absurdity, and that's going to change."
But the main question is whether the structure of racing in New York State is going to change, and that's why the Governor created his nine-member commission. He said that he created it "to look at N.Y.R.A., not to criticize it."
But the political reality is that the Governor acted decisively during a dispute last spring, when he was trying to force N.Y.R.A. to sell a parking lot at Aqueduct race track to the Port Authority for $50 million. The money would be turned over to the state because the racing association is a nonprofit organization enfranchised by the state, and that's exactly what happened.
At the height of the confrontation, the Governor threatened to pack the board of trustees of N.Y.R.A. with his own appointees. He eventually dropped the threat after the celebrated parking lot was sold, but he meanwhile set up his commission and told it to analyze the entire racing business in the state and report back to him next spring.
The point is that N.Y.R.A.'s franchise runs out in the year 2000. In fact, applications will be received by the state in the year 1997 from people who want to run racing in the next century. They will include the present tenant, the New York Racing Association, which made its first pitch before the Governor's commission on Tuesday.
The association made some good sense with its proposals, too. But it did not make very good political sense. It did not face the reality that racing and betting and taxing are elements of the same equation in the state, and that 'x' is the political variable. Most of all, it did not face the reality that N.Y.R.A. isn't the plaintiff but the defendant.
The three broad proposals made by N.Y.R.A. sound reasonable: Designate the association as the operator of the state's six Offtrack Betting Corporations. Lower the 17 percent "takeout" from bets to 14 percent, giving the state less in taxes. And cut six weeks off the year-round winter racing schedule in New York, from Jan. 2 to the middle of February.
To back its argument, N.Y.R.A. noted that there are 75 OTB parlors within 10 miles of Aqueduct, and McKeon added, "They are marketing easy wagering, and we think racing is a lot more than that."
It's an unassailable argument. The six OTB corporations in the state form a parallel betting network that rivals the race tracks. Even Governor Cuomo concedes that OTB doesn't run very efficiently. But OTB is a prime source of political patronage, and it's a very long shot to expect him to surrender it.
The same is true of reducing the takeout, especially if you take the money saved and put it into purses, capital improvements and the pockets of the bettors. But the political reality is that you're asking the state to surrender some money now in the expectation of making more later if the volume of betting expands.
Cutting six weeks off the winter racing season probably makes the most sense of all, particularly for the horses. But maybe not for the sacred cows of OTB, which needs racing to sustain betting. And certainly not for the state, which needs revenue from the betting.
"I hope," McKeon said after presenting N.Y.R.A.'s message to the Governor's commissioners, "they don't want to kill the messenger."
Don't bet on that one, either. In a business trying to mix racing, betting and taxing with the political realities, the messenger may be the longest shot of all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSN NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RACING ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING HORSE RACING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BONUS PAY (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (51%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH GERARD J MCKEON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



421 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Where Are Germany's Leaders?

 BODY:
The outbreak of racist violence and propaganda in Germany is part of a Europe-wide problem. But Germany's history and future obligations impose a special duty to resist the rising tide of hate. Germany cannot let a recurrence of racism threaten its continuing quest for a constructive role in Europe.
Too many of Germany's leaders, starting with Chancellor Kohl, duck this duty. Reluctant to risk political capital for principle, they blame everyone but the troublemakers who are arising like a nightmare out of the past, and not just in the formerly Communist East. More than 1,500 racially motivated assaults have been recorded so far this year, up from 270 in 1990. 
 Gypsies, Asians and Africans have been the most frequent victims; disaffected young people have been the main perpetrators. A national network of neo-Nazi groups encourages the violence. Jews, human rights defenders and other traditional targets also feel threatened.
Many Germans have expressed sympathy for the racists. But polls and rallies like the one last Sunday in Berlin indicate that many more are appalled, alarmed and ready to defend their democracy against a growing threat.
In places where the authorities have moved strongly to enforce the law against racists -- in Dresden, for example -- the problem has been effectively contained. On the national level, Germany's Federal President, Richard von Weizsacker, has spoken out repeatedly for tolerance and the rule of law.
But Mr. von Weizsacker's role is largely ceremonial. Real power in Germany rests with the leaders of its major parties: the ruling Christian Democrats and Free Democrats and the opposition Social Democrats. All three have defined the main problem as the rapid influx of foreigners. All three urge tighter restrictions on asylum seekers as the logical solution.
True, Germany is host to a disproportionate number of asylum seekers, given its proximity to the Balkans and the inhospitable asylum policies of its West European neighbors. At a time when many Germans are out of work, foreigners maintained on government stipend make easy scapegoats.
But Germany is one of Europe's richest and largest states; refugees are not the root cause of its economic difficulties, or its politics of hate. A Germany that seeks European and world leadership simply cannot afford to slip back into dangerous fantasies of ethnic purity.
Party leaders owe the German people this truth -- and an unflinching campaign against racist hooliganism. For decades Americans have optimistically believed that Germany had learned painfully hard lessons and had become a tolerant, dependably democratic state. That's also what most Germans desperately want to believe. Where are their leaders?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RACE & RACISM (91%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (88%); REFUGEES (88%); RIOTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (72%); HELMUT KOHL (72%); RICHARD FREIHERR VON WEIZSACKER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



422 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The President-Elect;
CLINTON TO OPEN MILITARY'S RANKS TO HOMOSEXUALS

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 11

 BODY:
Addressing a specific policy decision for the first time since he was elected President, Bill Clinton said today that he would rescind the Defense Department's ban on homosexuals in the military after he takes office in January.
Mr. Clinton disclosed his plans after a Veterans Day speech in the Arkansas State House. 
In the speech, Mr. Clinton, whose avoidance of the Vietnam War draft became a central campaign issue, seemed to go out of his way to signal veterans of that war that as Commander in Chief he would protect their interests and insure that they are not left "out in the cold" after the cold war.
 
Reassuring Doubters
 Mr. Clinton also used his first major address as President-elect to try to reassure members of the armed services that he would be as tough with national security affairs as any of the Republicans who had questioned his mettle in the campaign.
Mr. Clinton vowed that his Administration would not establish normal relations with Vietnam as long as that nation was suspected of withholding information about missing American servicemen.
He said that his Veterans Affairs secretary would seek to improve the veterans health-care system, and that he would support initiatives to give military men and women cut from the armed forces for budgetary reasons a chance to earn their 20-year pensions by working for local police departments, as teachers or in other public-service jobs.
Mr. Clinton also used his address to sketch the outlines of his defense policy, saying he intended to restructure the armed forces to put an even greater emphasis than the Bush Administration on smaller, more mobile, high-tech forces.
 
A Talk With Bush
 To make it much easier for military contractors to move back and forth between civilian and military manufacturing, he said he would adjust Government regulations and spending plans.
Even after the speech Mr. Clinton seemed bent on tempering his hotly debated stand on the issue of homosexuals in the military by promising to consider the views of the uniformed services.
Mr. Clinton spoke on a day in which he had a telephone conversation with President Bush, who called him from Air Force One. The two men agreed that Mr. Clinton would go to Washington next week for a visit of two or three days. Mr. Clinton also invited the Democratic leaders of Congress to Little Rock for a meeting on Sunday.
Advisers to Mr. Clinton said today that two more transition aides would be named this week. One is likely to be Samuel R. Berger, a 46-year-old former deputy director of the State Department policy planning staff in the Carter Administration. He would advise the President-elect on appointments of national security aides.
Mr. Berger, a Harvard-educated lawyer who is a partner in the Washington law firm of Hogan & Hartsen, has known Mr. Clinton since they worked together in the 1972 Presidential campaign of George McGovern.
Robert B. Reich, 45, a professor at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, was said to be the leading candidate to head the transition team's search for economic officials. He is a proponent of a national industrial policy that would use Government subsidies and tax regulations to support industries in areas where the United States faced strong foreign competition, an idea that has been central to Mr. Clinton's economic proposals.
 
View on Homosexuals
 After the speech, reporters asked Mr. Clinton whether he intended to keep his campaign promise to lift the 48-year-old ban on homosexuals in the uniformed services. "Yes, I want to," he answered. "My position is that we need everybody in America that has got a contribution to make, that's willing to obey the law and work hard and play by the rules." He said sexual orientation alone should not, "in the absence of some destructive behavior, disqualify people."
The current regulations prohibit homosexuals from serving in the uniformed services. This ban, however, does not apply to civilian Defense Department employees. It can be lifted by an executive order of the President.
Any lifting of the ban could make the campaign debate over Mr. Clinton's draft status seem minor. The idea is already opposed by the current chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Colin L. Powell, as well as by most other senior Pentagon officers.
Regarding the question of relations with Vietnam, a sensitive issue among veterans' groups, Mr. Clinton declared, "There will be no normalization of relations with any nation that is at all suspected of withholding any information" on missing Americans.
President Bush's position has been that the United States and Vietnam were close to normalization, in light of the recent declaration by Hanoi that it would open up its archives for American experts to search for information about missing servicemen.
Mr. Clinton said he, too, was encouraged by this move, and he seemed to share Mr. Bush's general view that if the Vietnamese are as open as they say they will be, he, too, would proceed with normalization. His remarks today seemed intended in part to prod Hanoi to continue cooperating.
Speaking more broadly about his plans for the military, Mr. Clinton said, "It will be my responsibility to do two things at once which may sometimes seem inconsistent."
He said the first of those would be "to continue the build-down of our military forces, consistent with the end of the cold war." The second would be to insure that while reducing the size of the military, his Administration nevertheless maintained "the strongest and most appropriate defense forces to meet the missions of this nation at the end of the cold war."
To that end, Mr. Clinton said he intended to put a high priority on training, technological development of weapons systems, "both offensive and defensive" and to adjust the forces to make the military more available for rapid deployment to regional trouble spots instead of being massed along the old East-West divide in Europe.
Governor Clinton wants to shrink the military to 1.4 million from 1.8 million men and women, a cut of 200,000 more than Mr. Bush proposes. He also wants to reduce the full-scale "Star Wars" missile defense program and focus on a cheaper, land-based anti-missile shield and to have Government become much more involved in converting military industries to civilian use.
"We must rededicate ourselves as a nation to being far more serious than we have been in the last five years with the whole business of conversion," Mr. Clinton said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President-elect Bill Clinton's statements on the military misidentified the law firm in which a Clinton adviser, Samuel R. Berger, is a partner. It is Hogan & Hartson, in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Bill Clinton, listening to a speaker during a Veterans Day ceremony yesterday at the State Capitol in Little Rock, Ark. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON LAW FIRM LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HOMOSEXUALITY; DISCRIMINATION; VETERANS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); BUDGETS (70%); HEALTH CARE (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992



423 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Banks Increase Loans to Business In a Reversal of 2-Year Downturn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Bank lending to businesses has edged upward in recent weeks after a two-year decline that was widely blamed as a cause of the economy's downturn and weak recovery.
Although the increase is still anemic by the standards of the 1980's, bankers say that loan demand is improving in many parts of the country, and corporate borrowers say banks are more eager to lend than in the last few years. Because banks accumulated more deposits and capital while loans were falling, they now have ample room to increase lending more rapidly if the economy grows faster.
 
A Marked Improvement
 Loans to businesses held by the country's largest banks increased at a 1 percent annual rate in the last two months, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, a marked improvement from the 7 percent decline of the last year. 
 The best gains are occurring in areas where the local economies have been stronger than the country as a whole, like the Southeast. The decline in lending has slowed noticeably in other areas, with the exception of Southern California, where the economy is still reeling from declining real estate prices.
The Fed, which tried in vain to stimulate borrowing by lowering interest rates the last two years, is now beginning to hear anecdotes from businesses and bankers that borrowers and lenders are more comfortable. It issued a report earlier this month that said there were glimmerings of improved loan demand at 5 of the 12 Fed banks across the country.
"Things have definitely changed," said Carl C. Landegger, owner of the Black Clawson Company in New York. "The banks have more money than in quite a long time, and if you have a good industrial loan, they are anxious to lend."
Two years ago, Mr. Landegger's good credit record and successful history as an owner of several paper mills were not enough to obtain bank financing to buy a paper mill. In contrast, he recently had four offers to finance his purchase of Zimpro, a Wisconsin manufacturer of pollution-control equipment.
While bankers say the improvement in the economy accounts for the recent lending gains, borrowers see changes on the part of banks.
"The psychology of the banks has changed," Mr. Landegger said. "Before, they were very very afraid, and their regulators and top officers had told them in effect to not make loans. But now the banks are healthier and the fear is not so great."
Scott Daugherty, director of the Small Business and Technology Development Center, a government-supported advisory organization in Raleigh, N.C., noted that although the recovery from the recession of 1990-91 has been slow, the small businesses he advises are shedding their bunker mentality and seeking money to finance expansion.
"As they see that the recession did not deteriorate into something worse," he said, "there has been a return of confidence on the part of banks and businesses."
 
Improvement Elsewhere
 Bankers say they see the same improvement among larger companies.
Nationsbank, Charlotte, N.C., the country's sixth-largest bank, saw its first quarterly increase in loans in more than a year in the quarter that ended on Sept. 30. Loans to businesses accounted for almost all of the $885 million increase in total loans, which rose to $67.7 billion.
"For the past five months, we have had significant growth," said Graham W. Denton, who heads lending to corporations with more than $100 million in sales in the Eastern United States for Nationsbank. He said much of the growth came from companies negotiating new loans on more favorable terms because they had improved their financial condition.
But while the gains are encouraging, it is too early to celebrate, bankers say. The economy is still limping and bankers warn that they are not willing to lower their credit standards to increase their loans. Heavy losses suffered in the 1990's on loans made in the booming 1980's remain a painful reminder of efforts to keep profits high by making risky loans.
"Our standards have not changed," said Ira Stepanian, chairman of the Bank of Boston, whose loans fell to $21.4 billion at the end of 1991 from $25.6 billion in 1989. At the end of September, however, its loans had edged up to $22.1 billion.
"The basic change is that for a while, we had bankers who were looking inward and were more likely to be at their desk working on improving documentation or solving problems with existing loans," Mr. Stepanian said. As problems with bad loans have faded, he said, "they are out there marketing again."
The response to Bank of Boston's marketing effort suggests that there are lending opportunities if bankers look harder. Since mid-May, when the bank announced a commitment to lend an additional $3 billion to New England businesses and began advertising, Bank of Boston has signed 925 loan approvals worth about $1.4 billion. About 450 of the borrowers were new customers of the bank.
Banks are also using marketing pizzazz to try to attract new borrowers just to keep loans from falling. Chemical Bank, New York, earlier this year sent 2,000 Nestle Crunch bars to business prospects with a card reading, "May this be the only 'crunch' your business experiences this year."
"It sounds a little corny, but it works," said Frank Lourenso, executive vice president at Chemical.
With lending officers spending half their time calling on prospects, Mr. Lourenso said, Chemcial now does business with 56 percent of the region's 11,000 midsize companies, up from 51 percent two years ago, but still has fewer loans to those companies than a year ago.
But Mr. Lourenso is hoping that the marketing efforts will soon bear more fruit. "We have seen a good flurry of activity for new business in the past two months, and I think we are maybe seeing the bottom of this cycle," he said.
 
Blaming Regulators
 Some analysts have attributed the reduced lending of the last few years to regulators who pushed banks to increase the capital they hold as a cushion against losses. For many banks, the quickest way to increase capital was to decrease lending, so that capital as a percent of assets would increase. That loan-shrinking process is now ending, and banks have the highest ratio of capital to assets in nearly 30 years.
But tougher capital standards do not explain the lack of loan growth among healthy banks, which have far more capital than is required. These banks would much prefer to make loans than invest in securities because profits on loans are greater.
At the Banc One Corporation, one of the strongest banks in the country, Richard I. Witherow, senior vice president for corporate lending at the subsidiary bank in Columbus, Ohio, noted that even banks with good lending records had altered their policies.
"Some lending terms have been tightened, and there may be more covenants and higher requirements for collateral than in the past," he said. "But at the end of the day, if a company is solid and has a legitimate need, they can get financing."
Douglas K. Freeman, chief corporate banking executive at Barnett Banks, the largest banking company in Florida, says he "never really accepted the idea of a credit crunch."
"Every banker I know has an office full of money they would love to lend," he said, adding that changes in the economy are usually a more important cause of problems for borrowers than tightening of bank standards.
"The big issue I see in talking with our customers is a great uneasiness and apprehension over the economy," he said. "Business people are some of the most conservative in the world, and they want to see improvement in the economy before they really do anything significant.
While bankers have been content to wait for a stronger economy to bring a revival of loan demand, some analysts foresee a time when the pressure to increase earnings will be great enough to make banks more aggressive lenders.
"After what the banks have just been through, I don't see them now intentionally relaxing credit standards," said H. Eugene Lockhart, executive vice president at First Manhattan Consulting in New York.
But as banks come under pressure in the next few years to earn profits commensurate with the record high amounts of capital they have accumulated, Mr. Lockhart said, "it would be natural to expect attempts to increase loan volume."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "First Hints of a Thaw" shows the amounts of total commercial and industrial loans by all commercial banks from 1989-1992, and major commercial banks from July-Oct., and the percentage change in total commercial and industrial loans by major commercial banks. (Sources: Federal Reserve; Datastream) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); SIC3599 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (70%); BLACK CLAWSON CO (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); RECESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PAPER INDUSTRY EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); PAPER & PACKAGING (67%); PAPER MILLS (67%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL CARL C LANDEGGER (65%); IRA STEPANIAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



424 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The President-Elect;
CLINTON, SKETCHING PLAN FOR ECONOMY, COUNSELS PATIENCE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 12

 BODY:
Echoing a campaign rich in promises, President-elect Bill Clinton sketched out a plan today for his Administration's first months, incorporating elements ranging from the creation of investment tax credits for job growth to the loosening of immigration policies barring most Haitian refugees.
Mr. Clinton said he would repeal an executive order banning abortion counseling at federally financed health clinics and would introduce an ethics policy to guard against conflicts of interest by members of his Administration. 
 He also firmly defended having Vernon E. Jordan as his transition chairman while Mr. Jordan sits on the board of a tobacco company. Mr. Clinton noted with slight asperity that he, not aides like Mr. Jordan, would be making the decisions in the new Administration.
 
No 'Overnight Miracles'
 Speaking in the Old State House here at his first news conference since winning the election, Mr. Clinton outlined in grand, broad terms his domestic and foreign policy priorities. He promised quick action on the economy while taking care to warn against impatience.
"I expect to keep the focus on these economic issues, and I'm not going trying to scale back or scale down, or anything else," he said. "I think the American people understand that these problems are of long duration, and there won't be any overnight miracles, but I think they expect aggressive and prompt action, and I'm going to give it to them." [Excerpts, page A18.]
Mr. Clinton began by announcing the appointment of 48 aides to work on the transition, with Prof. Robert B. Reich, a Harvard expert on public policy, and Samuel R. Berger, a former Carter Administration official, occupying respectively the top domestic and foreign policy positions. [Page A19.]
 
Proceeding With Discipline
 On the domestic front, the President-elect listed a litany of "clear priorities" that was, in the manner of his campaign, notable for its scope and diversity: the prompt creation of new jobs, the beginning of a process to reduce the Federal deficit over four years, the establishment of a national health-care system, the improvement of political ethics and the passage of a plan by which college tuition loans would be repaid through service.
At the same time, he said he would not fall into the trap that caught the last Democratic President, Jimmy Carter, who tried to pass so many ambitious pieces of legislation in his first 100 days that he overloaded Congress and failed to achieve much.
"I think we have to proceed with real discipline, but I think the American people want America to get its house in order and want this economy to start working again, and that's what I'll focus on," he said.
In foreign policy, Mr. Clinton said he would introduce a military budget that would preserve America's position as a superpower while scaling down the cold war military apparatus, taking further measures to reduce nuclear weapons in Russia and elsewhere, strengthening global economic growth and furthering the Middle East peace negotiations.
With the future Vice President, Senator Al Gore, standing silently and solemnly at his side, looking much like a Secret Service agent, Mr. Clinton appeared assured and volubly at ease during the 30-minute question-and-answer session, confidently responding with evident mastery of the material. He was caught unprepared only once, by a question on his policy toward the Korean Peninsula, but even then he managed to pick his way through a bland, brief answer without stumbling.
Asked if he sometimes felt overwhelmed by the scope of his new job, Mr. Clinton said there were times, late at night, when he and his advisers "stood around and think -- this is overwhelming." But he dismissed those doubts as light and passing.
"I'm having a wonderful time," he said. "I mean, it is an enormous responsibility, but I asked for it, and it's an indulgence to feel overwhelmed by it."
Pressed several times on what some see as a potential conflict between hard realities and the public's high expectations of his Administration, Mr. Clinton asserted that he was not planning to narrow the scope of his ambition.
In one crucial facet of his economic plan, however, Mr. Clinton did appear to allow a door to open through which he might later backpedal. Asked if he still intended to propose a tax cut for the middle class in January, as he had promised during the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he had "not made any decision to change."
"If I make a decision to do that, I'll let you know, but I have not made a decision to do that," he said.
Dee Dee Myers, the spokeswoman for the Clinton transition operation, said afterwards that the President-elect had not intended to signal a future retreat from his middle-class tax relief promise.
"He was reaffirming his intention to move forward with the plan as advanced in the campaign," she said. "He has not changed his position, nor does he intend to change his position."
On several issues Mr. Clinton exhibited the ability he showed during the campaign to address a disputed issue in ways that seemed to recognize the merits of the arguments on both sides.
Regarding the Bush Administration's refusal to admit Haitian refugees to the country, for instance, Mr. Clinton said he recognized that "there is a legitimate distinction between political and economic refugees." But he added that the order "sending them back to Haiti under the circumstances which have prevailed for the last year was an error, and so I will modify that process."
He demonstrated as well his fondness for invoking committees to handle particularly volatile issues. Asked whether he intended to repeal the military ban on homosexuals during the first 100 days of his Administration, Mr. Clinton said he intended "to move forward on that," but said he would wait first for the results of committee study on the matter.
"My concern here is to do it in a way that is most appropriate for the management of the whole national security and military interests of the country," he said. "I want to consult with a lot of people about what our options are, including people who may disagree with me about the ultimate merits."
In discussing a package of ethics rules that his aides intend to disclose beginning on Friday, with additions over several weeks, Mr. Clinton found himself defending the position of Mr. Jordan, the transition chairman, as a $50,000-a-year director of the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation. Some anti-smoking groups have questioned whether Mr. Jordan's position should bar him from involvement in the appointment of people to the top health-policy positions.
"Vernon Jordan is my friend and has been very important to me in the selection of the Vice President and in the transition process, but Vernon Jordan is not going to pick these major people who serve in the health-care positions," Mr. Clinton said. "I am."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Bill Clinton and Vice President-elect Al Gore at Little Rock news conference yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JORDAN AS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ETHICS ; TAX CREDITS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ETHICS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); COLD WAR (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); TUITION FEES (60%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%); ABORTION (57%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%); 

PERSON: KELLY, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) ; JORDAN, VERNON E JR BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



425 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Asks Aid for Its Arms Curb

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Ukrainian leaders have threatened to hold up approval of the treaty sharply reducing intercontinental nuclear missiles unless their new nation receives a substantial boost in Western aid.
With Ukraine's economy faltering badly, leaders of the Ukrainian Government and Parliament have declared with growing determination in recent days that they will not part with their strategic missiles "for free." 
 Some deputies have further demanded unspecified international guarantees of their security against Russia if they are to accede to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and surrender all their nuclear weapons.
The strategic arms reduction treaty known as Start, which was originally negotiated between the United States and the former Soviet Union, needs separate ratification by all four former Soviet republics on whose soil strategic missiles are based. So any delay by Ukraine would stall the most sweeping accord in the annals of arms control, one that would cut nuclear arsenals by roughly a third.
 
Two of Four Have Ratified
 Of the four nuclear successor-states in the former Soviet Union, Russia and Kazakhstan have ratified the treaty, and Belarus is expected to follow suit. But all are conditional on ratification by Ukraine. The United States Senate has already approved the treaty.
Western diplomats and Russian officials said that they were not unduly concerned by Ukraine's stance, and that they still believed that the treaty would be ratified by early next year. They said that the dominant issue was money, and that they expected this could be resolved between Ukraine and Russia.
Diplomats said enriched uranium scavenged from the warheads could fetch hundreds of millions of dollars. The United States Congress has also approved up to $800 million for dismantling arms in the former Soviet Union.
In Moscow, Andrei Kokoshin, the First Deputy Minister of Defense, told reporters today that Russia would share any proceeds arising from the dismantling of nuclear weapons with Ukraine, but he said he was not sure there was much forthcoming.
"First of all, we are not quite sure that we will get any money for these warheads, either those which are on Ukrainian territory or on our territory," he said. "We call it in Russian, 'Dividing up the skin before the bear is dead.' I think in principle this is a solvable problem, and we're not going to cheat our Ukrainian friends on this matter, and if there is some money, of course they will get some, their share."
 
Steady Hardening Seen
 Ukraine's position has caused some anxiety among foreign experts who have tracked a steady hardening of Ukraine's attitude toward its nuclear might. William C. Potter, director of the Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, asserted Tuesday in an article on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times that Washington should have required Ukraine to accede to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty before recognizing its independence.
Western diplomats agree that the Ukrainian Parliament cannot be expected to rubber-stamp any arrangement presented by President Leonid M. Kravchuk, and that he is under considerable pressure to produce a deal that would satisfy the deputies.
The strongest indication of the Ukraine's position in recent days has come from Igor Yukhnovsky, a physicist who was recently named First Deputy Prime Minister. In a telephone interview today, Mr. Yukhnovsky reiterated his argument that in its current economic crisis, Ukraine cannot "just get rid of that which we have."
"We in Ukraine are now counting every kopek, every dollar," he said. "Ukraine doesn't seek nuclear power, but given the status quo, we believe everything on our soil is the property of our people."
 
Left With 1,200 Warheads
 In the first months of independence, after agreements under which all nuclear weapons were to come under the control of the Commonwealth of Independent States, Ukraine allowed the transfer of all its tactical nuclear weapons to Russia. That left it with 176 intercontinental ballistic missiles and about 1,200 nuclear warheads.
These, Mr. Yukhnovsky said, would not be transferred without compensation. He said Ukraine would seek either to sell the nuclear fuel to Russia or the United States, or to barter them for fuel for nuclear power stations.
Both President Kravchuk and the new Ukrainian Prime Minister, Leonid Kuchma, have also said in recent days that Ukraine had made a mistake giving away its tactical nuclear weapons. But Mr. Kravchuk has tried to avoid the impression that Ukraine is setting conditions on Start, since he agreed in Lisbon in May to abide by the treaty.
"We must not link the ratification of Start to conditions of some sort, but we have to go before Parliament with specific proposals," he said at a news conference in Kiev on Tuesday. "In order for Ukraine to complete its disarmament, we must have some material benerit and fixed guarantees for its security. If these two arguments are presented to deputies, I am sure they will vote in favor of the agreement."
Diplomats in Kiev generally agreed with Mr. Kravchuk that the Start treaty -- as well as the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, which the Government hopes to present at the same time -- would pass if the Government could demonstrate a satisfactory deal.
The strategic weapons in Ukraine are now under the operational control of the Commonwealth of Independent States, in effect under Russian control. But Ukraine has assumed administrative control over the personnel and bases.
Mr. Yukhnovsky said Ukraine remained committed to become a nuclear-free state, as it pledged in its original declaration of sovereignty.
"But perhaps that will not apply if somebody doesn't want to buy this wretched stuff," he warned with evident animation. "You cannot push a state that is trying to rise to its feet to the wall. The United States and Russia are rich, they must help Ukraine in this terrible situation. We know that what we have is a treasure, and on this we will insist."
Mr. Yukhnovsky seemed to reflect the prevailing frustration of a state that has only recently realized the depth of its economic catastrophe, and at the same time feels it has not received its fair share of international largesse or Soviet wealth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UKRAINE UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



426 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Study Cites Role of Biological and Genetic Factors in Violence

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

 BODY:
In a sharp departure from traditional criminology, the National Research Council has found that biological and genetic factors should be considered along with environmental problems like poverty in efforts to understand the causes of violence.
The findings of the council, the research arm of the National Academy of Sciences, are contained in a report, "Understanding and Preventing Violence," which was released today. The four-volume report, a compilation of research that has been done in many fields, is cloaked in cautious scholarly language and shows an important change in the study of criminal behavior, which has heavily focused on the social and economic underpinnings of violence. 
 The report also comes as new findings in genetics, biology and neurobiology about possible causes of criminal behavior have come under attack by some black political leaders and some specialists. Last month the Federal Government withdrew financial support from a conference on possible genetic factors in crime after protests by blacks. And a proposed five-year plan by the Department of Health and Human Services to combat violence using public-health techniques, like those used to fight an epidemic of smallpox, has been criticized as racist.
Today's report was put together by 19 prominent scholars and scientists at the request of three Federal agencies in 1988 for more research on possible ways of reducing the wave of violent crime that has made the United States by far the most violence-prone of all the industrialized nations. The three agencies were the National Science Foundation, the Centers for Disease Control and the Justice Department's National Institute of Justice.
In some ways the study is an up-to-the-minute encyclopedia of everything that is known about violence in a variety of fields, including sociology, psychology, psychiatry, law, genetics and biology. But the very act of bringing together such disparate fields, particularly in biomedicine, suggests that finding any single cause or remedy for violence may be impossible.
"You come to the important point of view that the causes of violence are complex and therefore elusive," said Mark H. Moore, a professor of criminal justice policy at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. "The hope that we might be able to base policy on definite knowledge of the causes of violence is receding."
 
Urges Less Ideology
 He said that instead of relying on more prisons and longer sentences, America needed more flexible, more pragmatic and less ideological approaches.
The report, in fact, found that while the average amount of prison time served for each violent crime roughly tripled between 1975 and 1989, this increase in the severity of punishment had no demonstrable effect on deterring crime.
A new approach is needed to open "a pathway out of the current stalemate between the right and the left about crime," Professor Moore said.
"The right is saying, 'All we need are more prisons and police,' " he said. "The left says, That is a stupid waste of money. What we really need is to abolish poverty and racial discrimination."
The report, he said, seeks a new middle ground.
 
Regulating Guns and Drugs
 One of its recommendations is to find better ways to regulate what he called "criminogenic quantities," including guns, and alcohol and drugs, which contribute to violence.
Summarizing current research on guns, for example, the report says there is no authoritative evidence that "greater gun availability is linked to greater numbers of violent events." But research demonstrates that gun-inflicted injuries are more often fatal than those caused by other weapons.
A second recommendation of the report is to find better ways to intervene in the development of young children to prevent them from becoming violent.
The authors say there is now widespread evidence that children who show aggressive behavior at about age 8 "are more likely than others to exhibit delinquent, criminal or violent behavior in adolescence and adulthood." This pattern of behavior in aggressive 8-year-olds is likely to persist as they get older even if they leave their families, schools or neighborhoods, the report found.
The study lists a large number of what criminologists term risk factors, types of behavior or conditions that have been statistically linked to violence. Among these, in children, are hyperactivity, fearlessness, poor early grade records in school, an inability to defer gratification and a low I.Q. Children from poor families, who live in crowded neighborhoods, with parents who have criminal records or who have physically or sexually abused them, are also at greater risk.
 
'New Conceptual Framework'
 "The most significant accomplishment of the panel is the integration of biological and social science data to develop a new conceptual framework," said Klaus Miczek, a professor of psychology at Tufts University and director of the school's psychopharmacology laboratory.
The study took care to acknowledge that "evidence of a genetic influence specific to violent behavior is mixed." It also warned that if any genetic predisposition to violence was discovered, it was likely to involve many genes and be linked to environmental influences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (58%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (58%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; VIOLENCE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); SMALLPOX (71%); PSYCHIATRY (68%); EPIDEMICS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



427 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Bank lending to businesses has edged upward at a 1 percent annual rate in the last two months after a two-year decline. Bankers say that loan demand, though still anemic, is improving, and corporate borrowers say banks are more eager to lend. [Page A1.]
President-elect Bill Clinton outlined his priorities at a news conference. He said he would take steps to create new jobs and to reduce the Federal deficit over four years. [A1.] 
 The number of Americans filing for jobless benefits fell to a two-year low in late October and remained under 400,000 for the sixth consecutive week. [D2.]
 
International
Top trade and agriculture officials will meet next week in Washington in yet another effort to pull back from the brink of trade war between the United States and the European Community. But both sides said they had not changed their basic positions. [D1.]
 
Companies
G.M's losses will end next year in its North American operations, the company's new management told financial analysts. John F. (Jack) Smith Jr. said the company should return to profitability even if the economy remained bad in 1993. [D1.]
Ford promoted Alexander J. Trotman to president and chief operating officer of its worldwide automotive group, putting him in line to succeed Harold A. (Red) Poling as chief executive. [D1.]
Caldor will acquire six stores that Alexander's closed last spring. Caldor's bid of almost $120 million topped the best offer of Bradlees, another discount retailer, in bankruptcy court. [D1.]
Sears, Roebuck will begin accepting credit cards issued by Visa, Mastercard and American Express in 140 stores in six markets on a test basis. [D3.]
Profits dropped 12.4 percent at Gap Inc. The company also said it planned to decrease its advertising expenditures. [D3.]
Dell Computer plans to offer about four million new shares of its common stock for sale to the public in early December. [D3.]
NEC will give gift certificates to its senior employees for its products instead of a full year-end bonus. [D3.]
Two former top officers of Cascade International were indicted and accused of violating New York's anti-racketeering law. [D4.]
 
Markets
Stocks ended slightly lower on the New York Stock Exchange, and profit taking halted a six-day rally in over-the-counter trading. The Dow industrial average ended down 0.54, at 3,239.79. [D6.]
The 30-year bond moved sharply higher and gave a lift to the rest of the Treasury market. But the rise was mainly attributed to a squeeze on dealers who were unable to get all the bonds they wanted at the auction and were forced to pay dearly later. [D12.]
Crude oil prices fell amid expectations that the United Nations may rescind the economic embargo against Iraq. [D13.] The dollar fell against most major currencies. [D13.]
The New York Mercantile Exchange's board voted to remain in the city. It had been considering a move to Jersey City. [B1.]
 
Today's Columns
Time Warner's stock should be thriving, some analysts believe, and yet it languishes below its level at the time that Time and Warner merged in January 1990. Market Place. [D6.]
Wilford Brimley's role is changing in commercials for Quaker Oats from a phlegmatic spokesman to an active character in Western settings. Stuart Elliott. Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (82%); V (NYSE) (81%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GAP INC (82%); VISA INC (81%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMMON STOCK (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); AUCTIONS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); TRADE DISPUTES (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); INDICTMENTS (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



428 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGES
 
RULING MAY FORCE THOUSANDS OF RETRIALS
New York State's highest court ordered a new trial for a defendant in a minor drug case last week, throwing thousands of convictions in criminal cases into doubt. Many, including the cases of the Central Park jogger, the tourist who was stabbed to death on a subway platform and the Happy Land Social Club fire, may have to be retried, lawyers and prosecutors said. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
UNEXPECTEDLY, CLEANER AIR APPARENT 
To meet new clean air requirements, city officials in recent years have contemplated banning trucks from midtown Manhattan, placing tolls on East River bridges and barring commuters from driving into the city more than four work days a week. But in an unexpected turnaround, city officials now say that they probably won't have to do anything. New York City has not exceeded the Federally acceptable levels of carbon monoxide on a single day so far this year. A1.
 
FACEOFF OVER CROWN HEIGHTS RESOLUTION
City Council members traded heated words and charges of racism yesterday after a Jewish lawmaker passionately urged the passage of a resolution condemning the jury that recently acquitted a black youth of the killing of a Jewish scholar last year in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. B3.
 
SMALL CHANGE AND BIG CHARITY FRAUD
The New York Attorney General charged yesterday that hundreds of honor boxes and candy-gum vending machines found near cash registers in businesses across the state, with messages soliciting donations for national charities, are part of a fraudulent marketing scheme. B3.
 
TRACING THE DEATH OF A POLICE OFFICER
Investigators are searching for three men who were seen with an off-duty police officer before she was shot to death on Wednesday and dumped in a marshy lot near Kennedy International Airport, the police said. The police were also considering the possibility that the officer made it to her home in Cambria Heights, Queens, and then left again that morning. B3.
 
New deal on horizon for The New York Post. B3.
 
REGION
 
TASK FORCE ON CAR THEFTS
A day after four more Newark residents were killed in the rising tide of car thefts in the city, New Jersey lawmakers announced a six-member task force to produce legislation intended to curb the problem. B4.
 
KIDNAPPER CITES 'AMERICAN ETHIC'
As portrayed by a Federal prosecutor in Newark, Arthur D. Seale, who admitted kidnapping and killing an Exxon executive last spring, is a driven and manipulative criminal. But Mr. Seale, in a jailhouse interview with Barbara Walters, said he and his wife, Irene, "really epitomized most of the American ethic." B4.
 
QUIETING THE NOISY SKIES OVER NEW JERSEY
The Federal Aviation Administration published a long-awaited study of options for reducing air traffic noise over New Jersey, calling it a step toward providing "some relief" to residents who have complained about noise since air routes were shifted five years ago. B4.
 
An ambitious casino is planned for Bridgeport, Conn. B4.
 
Governor Cuomo offers a list of potential nominees for Chief Judge. B5.
 
Our Towns by Andrew H. Malcolm B4
 
Chronicle B2

GRAPHIC: Graph: " PULSE: Unemployment" shows the unemployment rate in Hartford,Newrk and NYC. in 1991 and 1992. (Source Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); VEHICLE THEFT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ETHICS (76%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); ACQUITTAL (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); DEATHS (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (69%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); NOISE POLLUTION (65%); AIRPORTS (63%); INTERVIEWS (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%); CARBON MONOXIDE (53%); 

PERSON: BARBARA WALTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



429 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2502 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION;
Excerpts From President-Elect's News Conference in Arkansas

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President-elect Bill Clinton's news conference today at the Old State House in Little Rock, Ark., as recorded by News Transcripts Inc., a private transcription service.
Q. Governor, you campaigned on a theme of economic hope and a pledge of putting Americans back to work. Are you finding it increasingly necessary to scale back the expectations you might have raised? 
 And second, what do you think you'll have to accomplish in the early months of your campaign to keep alive the hopes you might have raised during the past year?
A. Well, I campaigned on a theme of economic hope and creating jobs and increasing income. I also told the American people repeatedly we didn't get into this business overnight and we're not going to get out of it overnight.
I think what I have to do is to present an aggressive plan to the United States Congress and pass it, and to put together a world-class economic team and to take whatever steps that can be taken without new laws being enacted by Congress to revive this economy.
I think all along the way I have to do my best at one of the most important jobs of a President, which is to communicate to the American people, to explain exactly where we are at this point in our history, how we got here and where we're going into the future. There is -- there has to be a short-term economic agenda, we've been in this deep recession for a long time now.
There also has to be a long-term economic commitment to increasing the productivity of the American economy so that we can not only create more jobs, but that we can begin to raise incomes of ordinary Americans again for the first time in well over a decade. And I expect that we'll be able to do that.
I expect to keep the focus on these economic issues, and I'm not trying to scale back, or scale down, or anything else. I think the American people understand that these problems are of long duration, and there won't be any overnight miracles, but I think they expect aggressive and prompt action, and I'm going to give it to them.
Q. Governor, along those lines, do you intend to propose a middle-class tax cut in January as you advanced through the campaign?
A. I intend to propose a tax package that is consistent with what I recommended in the campaign. I have not made any decision to change it.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. Governor, the top savings and loan regulator says $50 billion is going to be needed to complete the bailout program and finance the deposit insurance fund. Do you intend to ask Congress for this money? If so, how quickly after you take office and will this hurt your ability to finance some of the programs you would like to see implemented?
A. Well, it's interesting, they came out with that figure, which is a bigger figure than they were using before the election, as soon as the election was over, but I have not -- I'm not in a position to accept the figure because I have not been advised about it.
Let me, let me tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to devote a lot of attention to the condition of the S.& L. bailout, the R.T.C., as well as to the condition of the banking system in the country and the potential impact of the new capital requirements coming in on Dec. 19, and make a judgment on that, and as soon as I do I'll be glad to share it with you.
I'm just not in a position -- I don't have all that much confidence in all the decisions that have been made by the R.T.C. I don't know what our options might be. So I can't tell you precisely what I'll do. It is -- it concerned me that that announcement was made, when it was made and the way it was made, with the figure that was tacked on to it, and I think it probably came as kind of a jolt to the American people. But I will do what I think is best and responsible, but I can't accept the figure yet. Andrea.
Q. Governor, Bob Dole said that you're going to have a honeymoon and that he's going to be the chaperon. Do you anticipate that you're going to have a tough time with the opposition? And how do you respond to his comments that you did not have a mandate?
A. Well, I think -- let me say a couple of things about that. First of all, I think that I -- that the American people hope that I have a honeymoon, not for me, but for them. If a honeymoon means a break in partisan political behavior, and an honest attempt by people of goodwill to reach agreement on something that's good for the country.
I had a good talk with Senator Dole on the phone yesterday. I'm looking forward, when I go to Washington next week, to see President Bush. I am also looking forward to a meeting, a bipartisan meeting with the leadership in Congress, and I'm going to hold out the hand of cooperation to them, and I think that they will extend it in turn.
I think that the clear mandate of this election, by the way, from the American people was an end of politics as usual, and end to the gridlock in Washington, an end to finger-pointing and blame. I think there is no question that there was a mandate in this election.
In terms of whether I got a mandate or not, you know, having a 100-vote electoral majority more than you need is not too bad. There are only a couple of Democrats in this century who've gotten a bigger percentage vote. But arguably, the greatest President we ever had, Abraham Lincoln, was elected with under 40 percent of the vote.
So I think the American people will all now evaluate what I do and whether I do it well and whether they support it.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. Governor, there's a lot concern abroad about what the Clinton foreign policy would be. I wonder if you could tell us what will be your first 100 days plan in foreign policy and what are the attributes you'll be looking for in a secretary of state and in a national security adviser?
A. Well, I think I've laid out my foreign policy in great detail and with clear specificity. I've certainly tried to, and I believe that I spoke more to foreign policy than anybody else running in the Democratic primary, at least, and arguably more than my opponents in the general election.
Q. What do you think will be your top priorities?
A. Well, my top priorities will be settling on a multi-year plan for a defense budget that I think keeps the defense of this country the strongest in the world and deals with the necessity to downscale; pursuing our continued efforts to reduce nuclear weapons with Russia and with other nuclear powers; working hard to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction -- nuclear, biological and chemical; keeping the Middle East peace process on track and doing whatever I can to make sure there is no break in continuity; and doing what I can to strengthen global economic growth, in terms of resolving outstanding matters with Mexico, hopefully resolving the outstanding issues in Europe, and proceeding with a cooperative strategy with the other major economic powers to promote global growth, something which will help us very much.
Q. Governor, the second half of the question?
A. Well, I want a secretary of state who understands that we have obligations of continuity and obligations of change, and that basically the pillars of our national security and foreign policy ought to be a different but still very strong defense, a commitment to global growth and economic regeneration here, and the fulfilling of our responsibility as the world's sole superpower to try to promote democracy and freedom and restraint the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
I want someone that I think really understands that and can relate well to those issues and to the people around the world dealing with that.
And in terms of a national security adviser, I want the same thing. I want people -- by the way, I do think that President Bush's group worked pretty well as a team in that area, and that's something that I want. I'm very much committed to picking a national security adviser, secretary of defense and a secretary of state who can work together on this agenda. I think that's what I ought to be doing.
Q. Governor Clinton, how quickly are you going to move on your pledge to allow gays and lesbians in the military? You're getting some heat for it now. You're getting pressure to do it in January, three days after you take office. How quickly are you going to move?
A. Well, I think that -- first of all, I am going to move forward on that.
Q. On your 100-day agenda?
A. Let me tell you what I'm going to do. My concern here is to do it in a way that is most appropriate for the management of the whole national security and military interests of the country. I want to consult with a lot of people about what our options are, including people who may disagree with me about the ultimate merits. And let me just remind you one more time of how this all came up.
This whole issue really came to light when Secretary of Defense Cheney was asked to comment on a study which said that there were many thousands of men and women who were homosexuals in the military forces who served our country with great distinction and never did anything in their conduct that was destructive of the morale or the purpose of the military.
And I think he referred to this rule as "an old chestnut" or something of that kind.
What I want to do is to come up with an appropriate response that will focus sharply on the fact that we do have people who are homosexuals who served our country with distinction, who were never kicked out of the military. Others, who are being kicked out of the military -- one of whom has just been reinstated by court. And the issue ought to be conduct. Has anybody done anything which would disqualify them, whether it's Tailhook scandal or something else. And so what I plan to do in an appropriate fashion, in a prompt fashion, is to put together a group of people and let them advise me about how we might best do this. But I'm not going to change my position on it.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. There are things that Presidents can do. Right now there is for instance -- there are two executive orders in effect, one of which bans abortion counseling by physicians at clinics, which use Federal funds. The other is an executive order that President Bush issued last May which effectively bars Haitian exiles from this country.
Have you made up your mind on what you're going to do with those two issues?
A. Yes. Well, I have made up my mind that I am going to change the policy in both areas. I don't believe in the gag rule and I think it should be repealed. And with regard to the Haitians, I think my position on that has been pretty clear all along. I believe that there is a legitimate distinction between political and economic refugees. But I think that we should have a process in which these Haitians get a chance to make their case. I think that the blanket sending them back to Haiti under the circumstances which have prevailed for the last year was an error and so I will modify that process.
I'm not in a position to tell you exactly how we're going to do it or what the specifics will be, but I can tell you I'm going to change the policy.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. On the economic summit, we're told that you're going to be bringing some of the top business leaders from across the country here to Little Rock to give you their views on what should be done about the economy. By almost anyone's standards, Ross Perot is one of the more successful business leaders. You agreed with some of his economic strategies during the campaign and you appealed to his supporters to be comfortable with voting for you. Would you be comfortable with having him come and be a part of that team?
A. I wouldn't be uncomfortable doing that. I have not made up my mind who's going to come.
Q. Will he be invited?
A. I've had no discussions on that. But I'm going to have business leaders here. We'll have some people from labor here who understand the changes that are going on. We'll have some distinguished economists here. We'll have a lot of people who were part of this campaign and some people who weren't. And it will be more in the nature of a retreat in that sense. I mean, I'm asking people to come here and go to work. You know, there's not going to be much posturing and show about this; it's going to be a lot of work.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. Governor, are you satisfied with the way in which President Bush has handled the State Department probe into your background during the campaign, or do you think more needs to be done?
A. Well, I'm glad Ms. Tamposi had to leave her job about six weeks early -- I thought that was an appropriate thing to do. I don't know that I know enough to give you a final judgment. Let me just say this: If I catch anybody using the State Department like that when I'm President, you won't have to wait till after the election to see them gone. I don't want to talk about what happened in the past. The election is over, we don't have a minute to waste looking at the past.
I just want you to know that the State Department of this country is not going to be fooling with Bill Clinton's politics, and if I catch anybody doing it I will fire them the next day; you won't have to have an inquiry or rigmarole or anything else, because it is too important to me that the rest of the world see us as having a coherent and, as much as possible, nonpolitical foreign policy.
And let me say, you will see that I've gone out of my way since I was elected to support the idea that President Bush is our President, that he makes foreign policy, and that we're all going to stick with it until there's a change, and this is a part of that to me.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. Little Rock is not Washington and you face increased security as President-elect -- -- and you also face increased media scrutiny. Will we see you on the streets of Washington a lot jogging and are you frustrated by the bubble?
A. Well, I'm a little bit -- you know, I'm a real sort of informal person. I live in an atmosphere that is highly personal and informal and I know my friends and neighbors, and my constituents can come up to me and talk to me on the street. But I would hope that both Senator Gore and I would be able to maintain some greater level of ongoing personal contact with folks than is typically the case. Now I know there are security concerns and we've talked to the Secret Service about that, and I have no criticism of them. I think they do a fine job.
But I think that one of the reasons we made this campaign a success is because we went out of our way to demonstrate, both of us together and separately, that we could be genuinely accessible to the American people and that we were interested in them, and I think that there are a lot of things you do in your own personal habits that send that signal out. So I hope I'll be able to do it. May not.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Bill Clinton responding to a question yesterday as Vice President-elect Al Gore watched. It was Mr. Clinton's first new conference since the election. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARK ASA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ABORTION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL) TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



430 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Expects End to Losses By Next Year

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation's new management team told financial analysts and reporters in New York yesterday that cost-cutting in G.M.'s troubled North American operations was running ahead of schedule, prompting a forecast that losses would be plugged next year.
The financial forecast, which is unusual for G.M. or any auto maker, is significant because it suggests that new management, led by John F. (Jack) Smith Jr., is willing to put its credibility and performance on the line. 
 Mr. Smith said the return to profitability of G.M.'s North American operations would occur regardless of economic conditions. "We're not dependent on an economic upturn to turn us around," he said. "We're implementing fundamental changes and restructuring that will allow us to be profitable even in a downturn."
 
 
Bold, but Risky

Mr. Smith's promise was bold, but risky: Ford's financial executives made the same promise during the robust automotive market of the late 1980's, hoping to convince Wall Street the company's stock deserved a higher multiple; they were forced to eat crow when Ford posted a $2.3 billion deficit for 1991.
In light of G.M.'s $7 billion pretax loss in North America in 1991 and $3 billion of losses for the first nine months of 1992, a break-even performance -- before interest expenses and taxes are deducted -- would be a powerful harbinger of recovery for a company whose financial strength has been badly sapped.
Most automotive analysts could not be reached following G.M.'s all-day briefing. But one, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, "They will have to work like hell to achieve this target." The analyst explained that he wished to speak to brokerage clients before being interviewed publicly.
G.M. was the third-heaviest traded issue yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $30.50, up 37.5 cents, on volume of 26.66 million shares.
In addition to comments by Mr. Smith, the analysts were also addressed by J. Michael Losh, executive vice president for marketing; J. Ignacio Lopez, vice president for purchasing; William E. Hoglund, in charge of new corporate affairs and staff support; Richard Wagoner, chief financial officer; J. T. Battenberg, vice president for parts and components; Harry J. Pearce, executive vice president and chief counsel, and other G.M. executives.
Mr. Smith offered evidence to reporters that cutbacks of white-collar and hourly jobs were proceeding faster than anticipated when they were announced last December. He also said they could go deeper. White-collar jobs will drop to 79,000 by the end of the year and to 71,000 by the end of next year, from 91,000 at the beginning of this year.
"That would put us on a level with Ford, adjusted for our greater size," Mr. Smith said. But after next year, he said, G.M. will try to reach white-collar efficiency established by Japanese auto makers, meaning a drop to as low as 60,000.
On the hourly side, employment will drop to 288,000 by the end of the year, down from 304,000 on Jan. 1. Afterward, the number will depend on how much work G.M. can bring in to its parts and components factories, which depends in part on agreements with the United Automobile Workers union to increase productivity.
Mr. Losh said G.M. forecasts increasing its sales next year to 4.7 million cars and trucks from about 4.4 million vehicles this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Smith, the new chief executive of General Motors, answering questions yesterday after a news conference in New York. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; COMPANY REPORTS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EVIDENCE (50%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; SMITH, JOHN F RICK WAGONER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



431 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Mercantile Exchange to Stay in New York City

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Ending years of indecision over whether the New York Mercantile Exchange would leave lower Manhattan for Jersey City, the exchange's board of directors voted late Wednesday night to remain in New York, exchange officials said.
Just last January, in the latest reversal in a long perils-of-Pauline melodrama, the Mercantile Exchange withdrew from a plan to build a joint headquarters on city-owned land in TriBeCa with the four other futures exchanges with which it has shared space for years in the World Trade Center. 
 But now, after considering a new offer of financial incentives to relocate in Jersey City, the Mercantile Exchange has decided to stay in New York, most likely by leasing space in a building owned by Shearson Lehman Inc. on Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, said R. Patrick Thompson, the president of the exchange. The Mercantile Exchange employs about 3,400 people.
The exchange, which trades futures and options contracts on crude oil, heating oil, gasoline and several other commodities, has been seeking a new home, with more space, since at least the mid-1980's.
Among the reasons for the decision to stay, said Samuel H. Lindenbaum, a lawyer representing the exchange, was a competitive package of incentives from New York City and State -- which city officials said was worth about $80 million over 15 years -- and the powerful lure of the tumbling cost of renting prime Manhattan office space.
 
2 Other Victories
 Retaining the exchange represents the latest in a recent string of corporate victories for the city and state. Among others, the Morgan Stanley Group and Prudential Securities, which together employ about 9,100 people in the city, have announced in the last three months that they would remain in New York. Both concerns were offered incentive packages by the city.
The New York Times said last week that it would move its Manhattan press and distribution operations to a new printing plant that the company plans to build on city-owned land in College Point, Queens. About 1,000 people are currently employed in The Times's Manhattan printing and distribution operations. Executives of the paper said they had also contemplated moving the operations to New Jersey and Westchester.
When officials of the Mercantile Exchange announced in January that they had decided to withdraw from the plan to construct a new building with the other exchanges, they said that the major premises on which the venture had been based -- including that the new center would also include office space for the exchanges' members -- had "evaporated," largely because falling rents in existing Manhattan buildings had made offices in an expensive new building much less attractive to the members.
The other four exchanges -- the Commodity Exchange, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, the New York Cotton Exchange and the New York Futures Exchange -- remain committed to the joint center, city officials said. It is to be built three blocks north of their current quarters in the World Trade Center, in a lot bounded by Greenwich, Warren, Murray and West Streets, which is now primarily a parking lot.
After dropping out of the joint venture, the Mercantile Exchange, which is the largest of the exchanges, began searching for a new home, including in existing buildings in lower Manhattan and in Jersey City, which in 1990 had bid aggressively to become the new home for all five exchanges.
New Jersey offered a strong package of financial incentives in recent months, Mr. Lindenbaum said. New York City and State came up with incentives that were "competitive" with New Jersey's, said Mr. Lindenbaum, who declined to discuss details of the offers.
Carl Weisbrod, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said that the city and state incentives were worth about $80 million. He declined to provide a detailed breakdown of the financial package, saying that it would not be made public while the Mercantile Exchange was still negotiating with Shearson Lehman over the proposal to lease space in the Shearson building at 390 Greenwich Street, at the corner of Hubert Street in TriBeCa.
The elements of the city and state incentives are the same as those offered recently to other corporations, Mr. Weisbrod said. They include low-cost electricity from state-owned nuclear power plants, some relief from property taxes, exemptions from state sales taxes on construction and new equipment, partial relief from the city's commercial rent tax and a direct, though unspecified, grant from the city, he said.
The Mercantile Exchange generates a total of about $75 million a year to the city and state in tax revenues, Mr. Weisbrod said. He contended that those annual revenues justified the cost of the financial incentives.
Mayor Bret Schundler of Jersey City said he was disappointed that the exchange would not relocate to New Jersey. "What it means to Jersey City is that we have to keep on marketing for others," he said. "What it could have meant for Jersey City is that it could have expedited further the development of the waterfront. I think that's going to continue anyway."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); ICE FUTURES US (50%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (95%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (95%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JERSEY CITY (NJ) UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); HEATING OIL (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (67%); LAWYERS (51%); COFFEE (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN CARL WEISBROD (61%); SAMUEL H LINDENBAUM (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



432 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
At Time Warner, Stock Is Stuck

BYLINE: By Geraldine Fabrikant

 BODY:
BY a number of key measures, Time Warner's stock should be thriving. Since Time and Warner merged in January 1990, the company has managed to pay down about 27 percent of its $11 billion in debt, attracted foreign equity investors and has seen its core businesses do well.
Wall Street has hardly turned a cold shoulder. The merger was touted as creating the world's largest media company, with all the leverage and synergistic mystique that such a combination would provide. And a number of veteran media analysts have aggressively recommended Time Warner, arguing that it is cheap relative to the value and earning potential of its wide array of assets: cable TV, films, records and pay TV. 
 The company has also bought the 18 percent of American Television and Cable that it did not already own, so that Time Warner could benefit from that company's entire cash flow. At the same time, operating earnings at its five divisions have grown even in a generally difficult economy.
The question of the company's future leadership appears to have been answered with Gerald Levin as the heir-apparent to Steven J. Ross, who is suffering from cancer.
Yet the stock, which split 4 for 1 in August, has lagged behind the Dow Jones industrial average since the merger, with the gap widening since May 1991. "It's been a real thorn in my side," sighed Jessica Reif, who follows the company for Oppenheimer & Company. At the time of the merger, Time Warner was trading at about 29, and it has not moved decisively past that level since. Two weeks ago the stock was down at 23; it has since moved higher, closing yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange at $26.875.
The stock was undoubtedly helped this week when top Time Warner executives met with analysts for four hours on Wednesday and explained the company's advanced cable system in Queens and its possibilities for the future.
Time Warner has more copyrights than anyone else in the world and is building the digital highway to distribute its copyrighted properties, said David Londoner, who follows the company for Wertheim Schroder & Company. Among the offerings would be home-shopping services such as How to Fix It, educational material and video on demand.
Meanwhile, a number of factors continue to weigh on the stock price, particularly the recently enacted cable reregulation bill, which could hurt revenues from the segment of Time Warner's business that last year accounted for 40 percent of cash flow.
Under this law, the Federal Communications Commission would have the opportunity to determine pricing for basic cable in communities in which subscribers say fees are too high. The F.C.C. has a lot of latitude for interpretation, and with a Democratic President, Ms. Reif believes more reregulation is likely.
But Richard Simon, a media analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company, believes that the passage of the cable bill was probably good news because it removed worries that an even more stringent bill might pass. The current bill is not particularly harmful. Mr. Simon believes.
"The growth in cable is basically going to be from ancillary services or a la carte services like pay per view and multiplexing," he said. "If that is the case, the industry will not be as dependent on basic cable rates.
"And despite the specter of the telephone company challenging cable, it is our view that the current technologies talked about by the phone companies to bring pay per view over phone lines is a less adequate delivery system than cable and has less longer-term potential."
This year the company's image has hardly been helped by the uproar over the lyrics on a recording by the rap artist Ice-T on Warner Records that dealt with violence against the police. And this has created a problem as well for some investment managers. "Some funds that run police money still can't buy the stock because of the Ice-T incident," Ms. Reif noted. And Mr. Londoner said one money manager who was handling police force pension money said the client did not want Time Warner in its portfolio. Moreover, despite its strong cash flow, Time Warner still is not generating earnings.
Oddly, few think that the publicity connected to Madonna's new book, "Sex," published by Time Warner, has affected the company much. "You kind of expect that kind of publicity from a media company," one analyst said.
Some other factors also make some investors a bit nervous. The company has filed a $1.5 billion shelf registration of securities. It has outstanding about $6.5 billion in preferred stock that generates high dividends that are not deductible for tax purposes. The fear is that Time Warner would issue debentures convertible into common stock that would be used to buy in the preferred stock. But Time Warner has denied that it plans to dilute its stock still further.
For analysts the persistent question is whether the stock is finally ready to make a strong move higher. "I've been waiting about two years," sighed one analyst yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (66%); SCHRODER & CO INC (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE) MERGERS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (74%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (62%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (60%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (50%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE STEVEN J ROSS (55%); GERALD LEVIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



433 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Drop to a 2-Year Low

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits fell to a two-year low in late October and remained under 400,000 for the sixth consecutive week, the Government reported today.
Thomas F. Carpenter, an economist at ASB Capital Management in Washington, said the report was the latest sign that "the employment situation has at last stabilized." 
 "The claims numbers suggest that the hiring phase of the economic growth cycle is on the verge of kicking in," Mr. Carpenter said. "It won't kick in in a big way, but it will start kicking in."
 
 
Analysts Had Expected Rise
 The Labor Department reported first-time applications for unemployment insurance fell by 5,000, to 355,000, for the week that ended Oct. 31, the lowest since claims totaled 354,000 in the week of Aug. 4, 1990. Many analysts had expected claims to rise.
Initial claims, which peaked at 530,000 on March 23, 1991, at the depths of the recession, have numbered less than 400,000 since Sept. 26.
Not included in the report, however, were 20,869 new claims filed under a special emergency unemployment program. That total was down from 23,497 for the week ended Oct. 24 and the lowest since 20,754 applications were filed in the week of Sept. 25.
The emergency program numbers, unlike the national figures, are not seasonally adjusted.
Many analysts believe the unemployment rate should improve if claims hold below 400,000. The rate fell for the fourth straight month in October, hitting a six-month low of 7.4 percent. Others say the economy will have to grow faster than the 2.7 percent annual rate in the third quarter to generate substantial job growth. Only 27,000 jobs were created in October, for instance, less than half of September's 72,000 loss.
Still, the closely watched four-week average of new claims also dropped to a two-year low in the week ended Oct. 31. It fell from 371,500 to 364,500, the lowest since the average was 356,000 on July 14, 1990.
 
 
Less Volatility
 Many analysts prefer to track the four-week average because it smooths out the volatility of the weekly reports.
Twenty-nine states and territories reported decreases in weekly claims; 24 registered increases. States reporting the largest decreases were Ohio, 2,914; Missouri, 1,748; New York, 1,146; California, 894, and Iowa, 662.
Missouri attributed its decrease to fewer layoffs in the transportation industry, while New York said it had fewer seasonal layoffs in a variety of industries.
States registering the largest increases were Michigan, 2,666; Illinois, 1,354; South Carolina, 894; Kansas, 743, and New Mexico, 644.
The national figures are adjusted for seasonal variations, but the individual state figures are not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: THOMAS F CARPENTER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



434 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Mirage Resorts Offers Plan for Gambling on the Bridgeport Waterfront

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Nov. 12

 BODY:
Mirage Resorts today presented a plan for a casino and gaming center on this city's waterfront that, at first sight, looked no more implausible than the dolphins and rain forest at the Mirage desert resort on the Las Vegas Strip.
The center, called the Bridgeport Sporting Club, would be designed to look like a huge New England yacht club or oceanfront home, with clapboards and shutters, and would include attractions from a casino, dog track and parimutuel simulcast theater to an ice rink and an amusement area for children. 
 "It's time for people who love this idea or hate this idea to have something to criticize," Mirage's chief executive, Stephen A. Wynn, said in presenting the plans to business and political leaders at a luncheon at Bridgeport Jai-Alai, the proposed site for the center.
Mr. Wynn has been lobbying hard to open in Connecticut the first non-Indian casino outside Nevada and Atlantic City. Despite a vow from Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. to veto any legislation permitting a casino, he has proposed a convention center and casino in Hartford, as well as the Bridgeport casino.
 
Mashantucket Pequots
 Connecticut has one casino, Foxwood, on the Mashantucket Pequot Indian reservation in Ledyard. Federal law permits tribes to conduct gambling if a state allows it; the Pequots qualified because Connecticut allows churches and other organizations to sponsor Las Vegas nights.
In many minds, the Pequot casino made Connecticut ground-zero for a coming explosion of gaming across the country, as other tribes seek to emulate the Pequots' success and states starved for revenue begin legalizing casinos off the reservation so they can share in the profits.
The plan presented by Mr. Wynn today is Mirage's attempt to enter the New York day-trip market. The center includes only one hotel, with 350 to 700 rooms (the Mirage, in Las Vegas, has 3,044 rooms and suites). But it is next to the Connecticut Turnpike and the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, and could be linked to Long Island by hydrofoil ferries.
Mr. Wynn said the center would not be like Las Vegas: "There isn't a speck of neon on this building." And it would not repeat the mistakes of Atlantic City, with its concentration of casinos looming behind a deteriorated city.
He said the Bridgeport center, on the waterfront immediately off Exit 28 of the turnpike, would provide a "completely self-contained environment that can be safe, that can be well-lit, that allows people to come and go without upsetting residential neighborhoods."
 
Jobs and Taxes
 He said that he would expect the center to employ 5,000 to 7,000 people and that local residents would have the first opportunity to apply for the jobs. He estimated the center would produce $50 million to $100 million a year in local and state tax revenue.
He also said bluntly that the casino, by itself, was not going to solve Bridgeport's economic or social problems.
"Get it straight," he said. "I think I know how to bring people to Bridgeport, and keep them coming, but there is no reason on earth for any of you to expect for more than one second that just because there are people here, they're going to run into your store, or restaurant, or bar.
"That didn't happen in Atlantic City," he said. "It should never have been promised in Atlantic City. It is illogical to expect that people who won't come to Bridgeport and go to your restaurants or your stores today will go to your restaurants and stores just because we happen to build this building here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen A. Wynn, head of Mirage Resorts, which proposes to build a casino in downtown Bridgeport, Conn., stood before civic leaders yesterday and said, "It's time for people who love this idea or hate this idea to have something to criticize." At right was A. Robert Zeff, president of Bridgeport Jai-Alai. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MIRAGE RESORTS INC MIRAGE RESORTS INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIRAGE RESORTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGEPORT (CONN) UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS GAMING (91%); CASINOS (90%); RESORTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); JAI ALAI (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); LOBBYING (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); VETO (72%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (66%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (61%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE STEPHEN A WYNN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



435 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Expo for Pets and Their Companions

BYLINE: By Andrew H. Malcolm

DATELINE: UNIONDALE, L.I.

 BODY:
HERE'S the ideal weather report for this weekend by Rick Stuts: A 100 percent chance of overcast with a perpetual mist escalating to steady drizzle (but not a downpour), continuing without pause until 6:01 Sunday evening, give or take a minute.
What does Rick care, he's not raking leaves. He's cozy inside the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, and he wants 80,000-odd others to pay $7 each to join him there over the next 60 hours. 
 Unless you've been in a coma since Sunday, you've seen the posters, read the ads, heard the radio spots or dodged the television promos for Pet Expo, the second annual extravaganza for animals who let us pay their rent or mortgage and all food and medical costs in exchange for several pounds of used hair per annum.
Pet Expo has 60,000 square feet of exhibits and sales booths offering everything from pony rides, animal adoptions, pet portraits and dog tricks to nutrition pellets for baby birds, jungle gyms for kittens, memorial parks for dead pets (rustic or formal services available) and, of course, carpet cleaners. This year Peter Orvis of Waxing Eloquent is here too with his new scented candles that address the problem of furry friends who never shower or flush.
Pet Expos are breaking out all over these days -- there's another in the Hartford Civic Center this weekend -- as thoughtful entrepreneurs help fill our dwindling leisure time and empty our wallets. Rick got the Pet Expo idea a few years ago from Hal Dunn, a friend whose wife, Maria, is really into parrots.
At first, Rick was so busy with his Long Beach company, Expositions Inc., and its twice-annual Coliseum home-improvement shows. But he did some research. You know, they even have successful expositions for people who relax by shooting defenseless ducks, which is a small, though fashionably dressed, and well-armed minority. Imagine what could be done with a convention for America's animal lovers, who spend more on pets than babies.
"Americans are crazy for pets," says Rick, who doesn't happen to have one himself. "You get people here who can't afford to eat well themselves, but they'll buy gourmet food for their pet. And you get North Shore folks who'll spend a fortune clothing their pet."
Rick gets more nervous for the Pet Expo, he says, than he did years ago playing bass guitar for Wilson Pickett. That may have something to do with the $145,000 he needs to see by Sunday night to break even. "It's fun," he says, cruising the floor with his crackly walkie-talkie. "I'm building a city of pets indoors." Interruptions, however, lurk everywhere.
"Hey, Rick. How many chairs you want in back?"
You might guess Rick is in sales. Rick's dad, Sidney, was a furniture salesman, a great one. Rick used to sell encyclopedias door to door, some people's image of eternal damnation. And Rick's son, Steven, hands out fliers at the Info Booth. Steven is 4.
Stuts salesmen are pros, of course; they believe in what they sell. And they believe all parties must feel good about any sale. Sidney's customers at Blumstein's just knew they got a good deal.
"Hey, Rick. Where d'ya want these cables?"
But how do you convince, say, the Tall Tails Pet Shop to rent basement exhibition space on a pleasantly dreary weekend? "In a brutal economy," says Rick, "some businesses play ostrich and get run over. The smart ones get aggressive. Now, how would you like Pet Expo to put your little shop on Hempstead Turnpike for 80,000 to see what they can buy from you? You'll see more people in five days with us than you get in your store in five years."
"Hey, Rick. The radio station's here with the balloon for the roof."
Rick is amazed at humans' mass dedication to animals. He donates free space to some adoption shelters. He offers a dog show and petting zoo. "Touching is very important in the pet business," he explains.
Now tell us, Rick, how do you sell expensive encyclopedias to a man who's six months behind reading Reader's Digests? "I understand," says Rick. "I don't want you to buy. I won't even tell you the price. But your wife made this appointment. Out of respect for her, I'm here. I'll tell you a few things. Then I'll leave. Fair enough? You've got, what, four children? You know education is more important every day. Books are a student's tools. You'd never send a carpenter out without a hammer. How could any parent deny their child the tools to build a fulfilling -- and profitable -- life? And when you divide the cost by four, that's not much for each future."
Will you take a check, Rick?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BEACH CO INC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ANIMALS; PETS PETS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (88%); CATS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); RADIO ADVERTISING (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM, ANDREW H RICK STUTS (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



436 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Ease As the Dow Falls by 0.54

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks ended slightly lower yesterday, under pressure from profit taking that halted a six-day rally on the Nasdaq over-the-counter market.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 0.54 point, at 3,239.79, after retreating from a high of 3,249.51. 
 Advancing issues led decliners, 922 to 875, on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was 226 million shares, compared with 243.8 million on Wednesday.
The Nasdaq composite index, having rallied six sessions in a row, closed down 0.55 point, at 634.37.
"We finally took a little breather today," said Peter Coolidge, senior equity trader at Kidder, Peabody.
The Nasdaq had risen almost 5 percent in the six sessions after Gov. Bill Clinton won the Presidential election on Nov. 3, as investors viewed secondary stocks as likely to be favored by Clinton economic policies.
Analysts said the stock market had little reaction to President-elect Clinton's first news conference yesterday. He pledged to take "aggressive and prompt action" to get the economy moving again and announced the appointment of Prof. Robert Reich of Harvard as the head of economic affairs on his transition team.
 
Signs of Improving Economy
Stocks also received an initial lift on signs of an improving economy. The number of Americans filing first-time claims for state unemployment benefits fell for the third straight week to the lowest level in more than two years.
Analysts said the secondary shares were again the pacesetter for the overall market.
"What's affecting the market more than anything else today is that you're starting to see some profit taking in the over-the-counter market that is spreading into the listed area," said Harry Laubscher, market analyst at Tucker Anthony.
Analysts said blue chips, which had struggled to catch up with the gains in Nasdaq stocks, were again following the lead of the secondary shares.
Shares of Ford Motor gained 5/8, to 39, after the company announced that its president and chief operating officer, Philip Benton, would retire.
Upjohn lost 7/8, to 30 3/4 after a civil jury awarded $1.8 million in damages to the family of a former police officer who said his use of the company's sleeping pill Halcion had caused him to murder his best friend.
Shares of Lands' End lost 5 5/8, or 20 percent of their value, to close at 24 1/4. The mail order retailer reported lower net earnings for the third quarter and said softness in sales may continue through the Christmas season.
Some broader indicators showed gains. The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 0.67 point, to 422.87. The American Stock Exchange index gained 0.42, to 389.23.
The New York Stock Exchange Composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.25, to 232.83.
For the second session, the Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of Big Board, American and Nasdaq issues -- closed at a record high, standing at 4,133.836, up 3.176 or 0.08 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DAMAGES (86%); COMMON STOCK (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); JURY TRIALS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



437 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: New Talks On Europe Trade Set

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The top American and European trade and agriculture officials will meet here next week in yet another effort to tiptoe back from the brink of trade war, American officials said today.
But both sides stressed today that they had not changed their basic positions in the dispute on farm subsidies. The United States contends that Europe unfairly subsidizes its grain farmers, which has the effect of denying billions of dollars of export sales to American farmers. 
 Unable to find a settlement, the United States said last week that it would impose a 200 percent tax on European white wines and some other goods, effective Dec. 5. The talks are now aimed at averting that sanction and whatever European retaliation might follow.
 
Key to World Deal
 And both sides say that resolving this dispute is the key to an overall deal in world trade talks that could reduce global trade barriers and stimulate economies in rich and poor countries alike.
Both American and European officials are under tremendous pressure from political and industrial constituencies at home, and they apparently feel they need at least to be talking.
And trade officials on both sides of the Atlantic have taken heart from the return to the negotiations of Ray MacSharry of Ireland, the European Community's Agriculture Commissioner and its top negotiator on farm issues until last week, when he quit in a huff, complaining that Jacques Delors, the French president of the European Community, had sabotaged negotiations.
Mr. MacSharry and the United States Agriculture Secretary, Edward R. Madigan, met in Chicago last week and nearly reached an agreement before Mr. Delors interceded, Mr. MacSharry said. He agreed to return to lead Europe's negotiating team on Tuesday after being assured of more independence.
Mr. MacSharry and Frans Andriessen, the community's External Affairs Commissioner, will come to Washington on Wednesday to open two days of talks with Mr. Madigan and Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative.
President-elect Bill Clinton has avoided any role in the dispute, emphasizing that President Bush remains in charge until Jan. 20. Today he said at a news conference in Little Rock that after his inauguration he hoped to strengthen the world economy by "hopefully resolving the outstanding issues in Europe and proceeding with a cooperative strategy with the other major economic powers to promote global growth, something which will help us very much."
American and European officials who insisted on anonymity said the United States had been calling for the European Community to limit its production of soybeans, rapeseed and sunflower seeds -- oilseeds used in animal feed and cooking oil -- to about eight million metric tons, while the community has offered to reduce acreage but not to limit total output. The community's offer on acreage translates into about 9.5 million tons by European estimates of yields per acre, and into 10.5 million tons by American estimates.
The two sides have secretly reviewed ways to find a compromise by agreeing on a reduction in acreage while each side uses a different forecast of yields. But American farm lobbyists have strongly urged the Administration to use a high estimate of yields, which means a bigger drop in acreage than the community is willing to accept.
"The problem is basically that our farmers have a lot of experience and know what the yields are," an American official said. "We could fudge it, but there'd be screams of outrage that we were fudging it, and there wouldn't be screams the next week, there'd be screams right away."
The United States is currently using a forecast of 2.31 metric tons a hectare (2.471 acres), which was the average yield for the European Community's 1990 crop. The community wants to use a figure of 2 or 2.1 tons a hectare. The yield rose last year to 2.44 metric tons a hectare, but is forecast to fall to 2.17 metric tons this autumn because of poor weather in Europe and a year-old revision of subsidies there.
The new subsidy system means that only the first couple of tons of oilseeds grown on each hectare are eligible for government money, which has discouraged farmers from using expensive fertilizers and pesticides to produce several tons per hectare. The European Community says this subsidy holds down yields, but the United States contends that technological advances will cause yields to resume rising soon.
French rapeseed farmers have been particularly vigorous in protesting the revision of the oilseed subsidies. As a result, France has tried to block an agreement with the United States that would further limit subsidies, and Mr. Delors, who holds thinly disguised ambitions to become president of France in 1995, has tended to support the French position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WINES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); GRAIN FARMING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SOYBEAN FARMING (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



438 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, and Off

BYLINE: By Bruce Weber

 BODY:

'Angels,' Downtown or on Broadway?
With the premiere of the two-part marathon "Angels in America" at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles on Sunday, the scramble is on to secure a home for it in New York. A longstanding agreement among the New York Shakespeare Festival, the New York Theater Workshop and the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles has the show arriving for an eight-week run at the Public Theater on Feb. 9, but the principals now say that a move directly to Broadway is very possible, if not likely. 
 General hopefulness that the seven-hour extravaganza, a visionary anthem for gay America, might prove to be a moneymaker has been building for some time, but it peaked this week after the premiere. As the actor Ron Leibman, who plays Roy Cohn, said: "When we went into it, it was because it was a beautiful piece of writing. Now it's like: 'It's commercial? Wait a minute. Is that possible?' "
Indeed, the competition to stage the show includes Broadway's most powerful producers and theater owners. The Shubert organization would like the play, possibly for the Plymouth Theater, though the Plymouth is temporarily being held for "The Song of Jacob Zulu." (That's to give the Steppenwolf Theater Company, which has taken over from the Shuberts as producers, a chance to raise the money to stage it.) The Jujamcyn organization has offered the Walter Kerr, which is smaller, but Jujamcyn's advantage is its relationship with the Taper; the last three Taper shows that have come to New York have shown at Jujamcyn houses. And there has been substantial interest from independent producers as well.
The competition, said Jack Viertel, Jujamcyn's creative director, "ought to be a donnybrook."
The show, set largely in the 1980's and strewn with magical theatrics, is divided into two parts. The first, "Millennium Approaches," was presented at the Royal National Theater in London this year; the second, "Perestroika," made its debut on Sunday, and Tony Kushner, the playwright, is still making changes in it. New material was added for the premiere as late as last Friday.
On Wednesday, Mr. Kushner will meet in New York with Gordon Davidson, artistic director of the Center group; James C. Nicola, artistic director of the theater workshop, and JoAnne Akalaitis and Jason Steven Cohen, artistic director and producing director, respectively, of the Shakespeare festival, to discuss their options. If the show, which Mr. Davidson estimated would cost $1.5 million to stage, bypasses the Public, the festival subscribers would be entitled to tickets elsewhere and the festival would still collect those revenues.
The issues to be discussed, Mr. Davidson and others said, include the size of the Public's stages, which are smaller than Broadway's and would require the show to compromise on the flight paths of its soaring angel and some of its other stagecraft; whether the show is better served in agrueling single-day performance or by alternate nights, and how a challenging show on a controversial subject should be marketed. It is not, the potential producers agreed, a sure-fire smash. "It's no layup," Mr. Viertel said.
Mr. Davidson and Mr. Cohen said the final decision would be largely in the hands of Mr. Kushner, who himself seems torn. Speaking from London, where he flew after the premiere to accept the Evening Standard Drama award for best play of 1992, Mr. Kushner said he had about a month of work left to do on "Perestroika" before New York.
"The second play is longer than the first, and it should be a little shorter, if not a lot shorter," he said. "I'm trying to hang on to my playwright's head and not get lost in the vagaries of producing." Nonetheless, he added, the choice of whether to go to Broadway or not was "a great dilemma to be in."
"The New York Shakespeare Festival has been the most important theater in my theatergoing life," he said. "And I think it's a play in the tradition of the theater that Joseph Papp created."
On the other hand, he said, he is attracted by Broadway's majestic proscenium stages and the lure of Broadway in general: "I do believe 'Angels' can play for a mass audience. It seems to play for straight people as well as gay people. It has crossover possibilities, I guess."
He added a note of conscience: "There is a community I want to be able to see the play in New York, if they want to. The downtown gay and lesbian community. I want them to see it. And we're in a recession. I don't want the play restricted to an audience with disposable income. Unless we do something about it, Broadway suggests inaccessibility in ticket prices. And if the people the play is about can't come and see it, something's wrong."
 
Helping to Keep a Secret Secret

 In the gossipy theater world it's tough to keep secrets, and in the case of "Solitary Confinement," the Stacy Keach vehicle that opened at the Nederlander this week, the secret -- revealed every night onstage -- is the whole point.
It's not just a secret, actually, it's a sting; the audience is willfully, playfully misled, and it would be impossible to pull it off without the help (or at least the benign neglect) of Playbill, the production-customized publication that provides the theatergoer with the show's vital info. What's bogus about the Playbill for "Solitary Confinement" won't be divulged here. A warning will suffice: Don't believe everything you read.
There's a history of Playbill's playing along, said Arthur T. Birsh, the publisher. He cited "Sleuth," Anthony Shaffer's 1970 thriller with two characters, myriad disguises and a whole list of made-up actors in the Playbill.
And then there was "We Interrupt This Program" in 1975. "This show had as its premise that 15 minutes into a very dull first act, armed and masked hooligans came in and hijacked the theater," Mr. Birsh said. "Then they gave out a totally new Playbill."
The fact is, Playbill doesn't necessarily know when it's helping to pull an audience's leg. The press agent for a show writes the production notes, and though the staff of Playbill edits the agent's notes, unless there's an unusual request -- printing the title page after the cast notes, for instance -- what they're given is largely what's published, no questions asked.
"I was fooled along with everybody else on 'Sleuth,' " Mr. Birsh said.
 
A Replacement for Tony Perkins
 When Anthony Perkins died of AIDS in September, he was preparing to direct "Together," a play about the stormy marriage of Eugene and Carlotta O'Neill. This week, the producer Curtis Roberts announced that Burt Brinckerhoff would replace Mr. Perkins, and that the play, which stars Lois Nettleton and Don Murray, would open at the Wellington Theater in Chicago on Feb. 24.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: "Doodles of the Stars": New Dramatists, a nonprofit organization dedicated to developing new plays, will hold its ninth annual celebrity doodle auction on Monday at 6:30 P.M. at the Russian Tea Room. Some two dozen drawings by theater notables (and others) will be for sale, including the self-portrait of sorts, above, by Nathan Lane. Tickets, which are tax-deductible, are $100. It ain't art, but so what?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ANGELS IN AMERICA (PLAY); SOLITARY CONFINEMENT (PLAY); TOGETHER (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW DRAMATISTS (ORGN) STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO (67%); MARK TAPER FORUM (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW DRAMATISTS (ORGN) MARK TAPER FORUM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (93%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); WRITERS (72%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; KEACH, STACY; LANE, NATHAN STEVEN A COHEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



439 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: A Matisse Painting Sells For a Record $14.5 Million

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The art market got a stunning shot in the arm on Wednesday night at Christie's sale of Impressionist and modern paintings, drawings and sculpture. Much to even the experts' surprise, Matisse's "Harmony in Yellow," from 1927-28, which was being sold by Dr. Philip Sandbloom, a Swedish collector, set a record price of $14.5 million. The previous record for the artist, in 1989 at the height of the market, was $12.4 million when "Woman With a Red Umbrella Seated in Profile" (1919-21) sold at Sotheby's in New York.
But it wasn't just the Matisse that made the evening a success for Christie's. Another important work, Monet's "Waterlily Basin," from 1919, sold for $12.1 million, soaring way above the auction house's estimate of $7 million to $8 million. It was being sold from the estate of Ralph Friedman, a Manhattan philanthropist and former director of Bank Leumi Le Israel's North American operations. 
 Both sales proved that despite the doldrums the market has been in for the last two years, great works of art still command great prices.
The auction house refused to reveal the names of the buyers. These bids came over the telephone from the United States and Europe, as did most of the bids of the evening.
The evening totaled $70,694,100 in sales, well above the auction house's low estimate of $53.5 million. Of the 76 works up for sale, only 17 failed to sell.
 
Compared With Sotheby's . . .
 The auction stood in sharp contrast to Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern art on Tuesday evening. With the exception of one great price, $11 million, for "Asia," a Matisse that sold to the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, nearly half the works failed to sell and of those that did, many sold either at or well below their low estimates. The sale totaled $35.6 million, well below Sotheby's estimate of $59 million to $80 million.
"I'm extremely surprised," said Christopher Burge, Christie's president in New York, after the sale Wednesday night. "After Tuesday night we weren't quite sure what was going to happen."
Many experts said they knew Christie's sale would fare better than Sotheby's but no one said they expected that some of the prices would climb as high as they did in this economic climate. "Clearly we've hit bottom and we're on our way up," said David Tunick, a New York dealer. "Christie's got the estimates right this time. They also had the benefit of better pictures than Sotheby's."
The salesroom was packed with leading experts and collectors from around the world and the mood was immediately buoyant. What helped get the sale off to a positive start was that Christie's began the evening by offering the 24 works from the estate of Richard and Dorothy Rodgers. Not only was it a varied collection, with a wide price range of artworks, but clearly the reserves (the minimum price that is agreed upon by the seller and auction house) were kept low; the collection was 100 percent sold.
Picasso's "Guitar and Newspaper," from 1914, for example, was estimated to fetch $3 million to $4 million. It sold for $2.2 million to a private American collector. Another Picasso, "Spanish Dancer," from 1901, also went below Christie's estimate of $1.8 million to $2.5 million: it sold for $1.32 million. There was a lot of activity when Giacometti's sculpture "Falling Man," from 1950, sold for $1.5 million, way above the $600,000 to $800,00 estimate. And four bidders fought for Magritte's "Empire of Lights," from 1953, which was estimated to bring $400,000 to $600,000. It sold to a telephone bidder for $528,000.
 
'Buyers Were Very Focused'
 The sale was filled with more expensive works that the auction house had seen since 1990. A Degas, "Two Dancers in Green Dresses," from 1895, estimated to bring $4 million to $6 million, sold for $7.5 million to a European collector. Surprisingly, seven works sold for over $2 million, quite a change from last fall, when bidding tended to halt when an artwork reached $1 million. "There weren't people bottom fishing," said Michael Findlay, the senior director of Christie's Impressionist and modern painting department. "Nor did the room feel like one entity. Buyers were very focused on works they were interested in."
If any one artist dominated the two nights it was Matisse. It had been years since an important Matisse had found its way to the auction block and this season both by the coincidence of estate offerings and a hefty number of collectors trying to cash in on the success of the Museum of Modern Art's blockbuster Matisse retrospective. Christie's offered six Matisses for sale Wednesday night.
"Flowers From Nice," a colorful 1925 interior being sold by the Rodgers estate, fetched $528,000, just below Christie's estimate of $600,000. A Matisse drawing from the estate, "Lydia in a Romanian Blouse," from 1936, sold just above its high estimate, selling for $165,000.
"Still Life With Pitcher and Fruit," painted in Toulouse, France, in 1898, estimated to bring $500,000 to $700,000, sold for $451,000. "The Bridge From Sevres to St.-Cloud," from 1917, estimated at $550,000 to $650,000, failed to sell. Bidding stopped at $380,000. Still, the works fared far better than the Matisses at Sotheby's on Tuesday night, many of which never sold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); LUMI (TASE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (70%); EUROPE (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); BANK LEUMI LE-ISRAEL BM (55%); CHRISTIE'S IMPRESSIONIST (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIE'S CHRISTIE'S IMPRESSIONIST (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (70%); EUROPE (69%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ART; PRICES; SALES; AUCTIONS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS AUCTIONS (92%); PAINTING (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; MATISSE, HENRI (1869-1954); SANDBLOM, PHILIP (DR); MONET, CLAUDE (1840-1926); RODGERS, RICHARD (1902-1979); RODGERS, DOROTHY; PICASSO, PABLO (1881-1973) MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



440 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 28; Column 3; Weekend Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Assigning Blame and Taking No Responsibility

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

A Nation of Victims
 The Decay of the American Character
 By Charles J. Sykes
 289 pages. St. Martin's Press. $22.95.
A Massachusetts man steals a car from a parking lot and is killed while driving it; his family subsequently sues the parking-lot owner for failing to take steps to prevent such thefts. A bicyclist in the Midwest compares disrespect toward bicyclists to "cross burning, swastika painting, gay bashing" and other "hate crimes motivated by the status of the victim." The University of Missouri School of Journalism issues a handbook of words and phrases that should be sidestepped "to avoid offending and perpetuating stereotypes": among those terms are "burly" ("too often associated with large black men, implying ignorance"), "white" (a product of the "racist power structure") and "community" ("implies a monolithic culture in which people act, think and vote in the same way"). 
 Such examples, Charles J. Sykes argues in his new book, "A Nation of Victims," are illustrations of a growing phenomenon characterized by a plaintive refrain: "I am a victim." "I am not responsible; it's not my fault." This "victim-ization of America," Mr. Sykes writes, "is remarkably egalitarian": "victim status is now claimed not only by members of minority groups but increasingly by the middle class, millionaire artists, students at Ivy League colleges, 'adult children,' the obese, codependents, victims of 'lookism' (bias against the unattractive), 'ageism,' 'toxic parents' and the otherwise psychically scarred." It has resulted in the imposition of "speech codes" at college campuses around the country; a flood of lawsuits charging bias or discrimination, and a proliferation of defense motions, intended to portray the defendant as another injured party.
Marion S. Barry Jr., the former Mayor of Washington, contends he is a victim of racism when he is convicted of cocaine possession. Dan White, who killed Mayor George Moscone of San Francisco, argues that his violent behavior was triggered by eating too much junk food. And Tawana Brawley, who fabricated a story about being assaulted by a gang of white men, is celebrated as a symbol of black women who have endured centuries of sexual abuse.
Of course, much has already been written about the victim phenomenon, and the book that Mr. Sykes -- the author of a widely praised study of American universities called "Profscam" -- has written remains heavily indebted to John Taylor's 1991 New York magazine article "Don't Blame Me!" and Time magazine's 1991 cover story "Crybabies: Eternal Victims." His book also superficially rehashes ideas raised by books like Christopher Lasch's "Culture of Narcissism," Jim Sleeper's "Closest of Strangers," Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s "Disuniting of America," Mickey Kaus's "End of Equality" and James Lincoln Collier's "Rise of Selfishness in America."
As Mr. Sykes sees it, "victimism can be seen as a generalized cultural impulse to deny personal responsibility and to obsess on the grievances of the insatiable self." It stems in part, he suggests, from Americans' unwillingness to acknowledge the limitations and disappointments inherent in the human condition -- their tendency to see "the immemorial questions of human life as problems that required solutions."  As a result, he suggests, Americans have enshrined "the infinite expectation -- for psychological gratification, self-actualization, self-realization, and happiness -- not as a goal to be won but as an entitlement."
In the 1960's, as young people began embracing an adversarial stance toward authority, Mr. Sykes says, dissatisfaction became a permanent fixture in American life. Although he praises the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. for stressing self-reliance as a remedy to poverty, Mr. Sykes contends that the civil rights movement later underwent a decisive -- and, in his opinion, damaging -- change when it shifted its emphasis "from seeking equality under the law to a focus on the vague and volatile concept of racism." "Victimist" explanations were offered up to explain black crime and black drug addiction; "victimist" arguments were advanced to rationalize the academic failures of black students.
The grievances of blacks, Mr. Sykes suggests, were appropriated in the 60's by white radicals interested in "acquiring some of the moral standing of the genuinely downtrodden." Over the years, he argues, an increasingly wide array of groups -- including women, homosexuals, American Indians, the elderly and the disabled -- started to take advantage of "an elaborate array of programs, privileges, and entitlements that were specifically attached to various groups' victim status."
In describing the growing Balkanization of American society -- the competing (and often highly selfish) demands of different special-interest groups and the absurdities that can result from the dogmatic embrace of "political correctness" -- Mr. Sykes is eloquent and often convincing, displaying in these pages a healthy dose of common sense.
When it comes to the larger picture, however, he tends to grow didactic, callous and shrill, using extreme examples to dismiss or debunk entire trends, and making broad and often unsubstantiated generalizations. For instance, he blames Freud's "critique of the culture's emphasis on restraint and self-denial" for the lack of responsibility in today's society, although Freud actually underscored the importance of sublimating the unruly impulses of the id. He cynically predicts that the 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act will lead to a "starburst of victimist creativity." And he plays down the continuing problem of poverty and unemployment among blacks by selectively quoting a study that shows that the earnings of black women top those of white women with similar backgrounds.
How does Mr. Sykes propose to remedy the cult of victimization in America? He calls for a new code of personal conduct, emphasizing self-restraint, and he says he hopes that the "disrepute associated with dependency, illegitimacy and family breakup" will be reinstituted in minority communities. He wants to "sharply limit the definitions of victimization in the law itself -- civil rights legislation and protections of the handicapped included." And he wants Americans to re-embrace the family as "the crucible of character."
As flippantly delineated by Mr. Sykes, such proposals are simplistic in the extreme, as simplistic, unfortunately, as much of "A Nation of Victims."

GRAPHIC: Photo of Charles J. Sykes. (John Nienhuis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NATION OF VICTIMS, A (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (50%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MEN (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ETHICS (75%); WRITERS (75%); JOURNALISM (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); TRENDS (71%); CYCLING (71%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (64%); COCAINE (61%); 

PERSON: SYKES, CHARLES J; KAKUTANI, MICHIKO CHARLES J SYKES (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



441 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
ALCOA UNIT CLOSING INDIANA PLANT

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Aluminum Company of America said yesterday its Stolle Corporation subsidiary was closing a South Bend, Ind., plant that employs about 250 people. The plant's operations will be consolidated into Stolle's Princeville, Ill., plant in the first quarter of 1993. About 100 jobs will be added at Princeville. The plants make vinyl siding and accessories for the new-home, remodeling and manufactured-housing industries. The closing will result in an after-tax charge of about $30 million, or 35 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, Alcoa said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); SIC3444 SHEET METAL WORK (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA (ALCOA); STOLLE CORP ALCOA INC (96%); STOLLE CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA (ALCOA); STOLLE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH BEND (IND); PRINCEVILLE (ILL) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIANA, USA (90%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS (LABOR); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); REAL ESTATE (87%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (83%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



442 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: It's the Bully Pulpit Again;
The President-Elect: Leading by Explaining

 BODY:
Listening to Bill Clinton's news conference yesterday brought a surprising sense of relief and respect.
For 12 years, Presidential news conferences have often driven English teachers to slap their foreheads in despair. Yesterday Mr. Clinton not only spoke cogently and in complete sentences; he became a teacher. The bully pulpit has become a pulpit again. 
 For all his reputation as the Great Communicator, President Reagan, mellifluous with a prepared statement, often bumbled into incoherence when required to extemporize. In the last four years, parsing President Bush has become a competitive sport, turning up gems like, "I just am not one who -- who flamboyantly believes in throwing a lot of words around."
In his first news conference since the election, Mr. Clinton was no John F. Kennedy; he lackedthe signature flashes of wit. But he came out with an admirably limited and sensible agenda of priorities. And, equally welcome, he explained them.
For instance, he called anew for campaign finance reform, and embraced several key components of a decent plan: campaign spending limits, new curbs on PAC's and opening the airwaves to candidates.
Most notably, the President-elect spelled out his views of the economy. He took pains to make the fundamental distinction so often lost during the campaign between the short-term need for stimulus to get the economy growing again and the long-term need to reduce the deficit while making America more productive.
"All along the way," Mr. Clinton said yesterday, "I have to do my best at one of the most important jobs of the President" -- to communicate to the American people "exactly where we are at this point in our history, how we got here and where we're going in the future." He's right about the responsibility, and yesterday made a strong start on the content.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



443 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Postal Service In Refinancing

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The Postal Service and the Treasury said today that they had agreed to a refinancing of postal debt that will reduce interest costs by $2 billion over 20 years.
About $4.5 billion in debt was refinanced, reducing the average interest rate from 8.76 percent to 6.56 percent and providing the option to pay off notes early without penalty, the Postal Service said. 
The refinancing was handled by the Federal Financing Bank, an arm of the Treasury, which holds about $10 billion in Postal Service debt.
The Postmaster General, Marvin Runyon, said after he took office in July that he hoped to turn to the private financial market for lower interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: POSTAL SERVICE (US); TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL FINANCING BANK POSTAL SERVICE (94%); FEDERAL FINANCING BANK (83%); FEDERAL FINANCING BANK (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE (US); TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL FINANCING BANK FEDERAL FINANCING BANK (83%); FEDERAL FINANCING BANK (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE; INTEREST (MONEY) TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



444 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Associations Form Brand-Equity Group

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
The American Association of Advertising Agencies and the Association of National Advertisers have joined nine media associations to form an organization to help make the case for building strong name-brand products.
The Coalition for Brand Equity is headed by Larry Light, who will continue as president at the Arcature Corporation, a marketing consulting company in Stamford, Conn. Others involved include the Magazine Publishers of America, the Network Television Association and the Newspaper Association of America. 
 "For the past couple of years," Mr. Light said yesterday, "we have been milking and exploiting brands."
"The key to profitability," he added, "is brand loyalty."
The coalition is being formed by organizations with a stake in the health of branded products, which are under unprecedented siege as economy-minded shoppers switch to lower-priced products and so-called value brands. Its plans include reviewing research on advertising's role in increasing brand value and sponsoring seminars on the future of brands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: COALITION FOR BRAND EQUITY; AMERICAN ASSN OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (AAAA); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (57%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COALITION FOR BRAND EQUITY; AMERICAN ASSN OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (AAAA); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (57%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); BRANDING (94%); BRAND EQUITY (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (88%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; LIGHT, LARRY LARRY LIGHT (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



445 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The New Team 1;
Clinton Selects Diverse Team of Advisers

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark. Nov. 12

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton today named a transition team notable for its diversity in age, sex and ethnic background that will help Mr. Clinton shape the initial economic, foreign and social policies of his Administration.
The 48-person team includes a rich mix of white, black, Hispanic and Asian-American advisers, men and women, the youthful and the experienced, Gentiles and Jews, academics and business executives, politicians who worked with Mr. Clinton during the campaign and old friends. 
 The two most influential positions on the team went to Robert B. Reich, a professor of public policy at Harvard University, who will run the economic policy team, and Samuel R. Berger, an official of the Carter Administration, who will run the foreign policy team.
"I have pledged to the American people that my Cabinet will look more like America than previous administrations," said Mr. Clinton in a news conference at the State House here.
 
More Advisers Next Week
 The transition hierarchy is headed by Vernon E. Jordan and Warren M. Christopher. Under their direction, the advisers appointed today will deal with matters from health care to an office for Mr. Clinton's wife, Hillary.
The senior advisers heading each policy cluster will draw up detailed proposals for how to fulfill Mr. Clinton's campaign promises. They are also expected to prepare lists of prospects for lower-level appointments in their respective areas.
Another team of advisers, to be named next week, will work with agencies of the Bush Administration.
Mr. Reich, who lectures on political economy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, is known for his view that the two main factors in increasing a country's economic competitiveness are the quality of its work force and its roads, bridges and communications systems.
Mr. Reich is widely expected to be given a top economic post in a Clinton Administration. In the transition, he will be assisted by Ira Magaziner, an economic consultant who advocates a large government role in increasing economic competitiveness.
The national security post on the transition team will be held by Mr. Berger, who was a deputy director of the Policy Planning Staff at the State Department in the Carter Administration and is an old friend of Mr. Clinton. In recent years, Mr. Berger has been a law partner in the Washington firm of Hogan & Hartson, and his views on specific foreign policy issues lie in the mainstream of the Democratic Party.
In his news conference, Mr. Clinton was asked to describe what attributes he would be looking for in his Secretary of State and National Security Adviser.
"I want a Secretary of State," he said, "who understands that we have obligations of continuity and obligations of change, and that basically the pillars of our national security and foreign policy ought to be a different but still very strong defense, a commitment to global growth and economic regeneration here and the fulfilling of our responsibility as the world's sole superpower to try to promote democracy and freedom and restrain the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction."
Al From, president of the Democratic Leadership Council, the conservative Democratic Party organization that has influenced Mr. Clinton on both foreign and domestic policy, will head the domestic policy team. Judy Feder, who directed the Pepper Commission study of the nation's medical care system, will supervise health policy.
Other major appointments include Eli J. Segal, the Boston businessman who served as campaign chief of staff, as chief financial officer. He is considered a leading candidate for White House chief of staff. George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's longtime communications director, will take that post for the transition and is expected to hold it in the White House.
Doris Matsui, a public policy advocate who is married to Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, and Anne Cohn Donnally, executive director of the National Committee for the Prevention of Child Abuse, were added to a five-member transition board.
Supervising the inaugural will be Ronald H. Brown, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, and Harry Thomason and Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, television producers and close friends of the Clintons.
On Friday, Mr. Clinton is to release the ethical guidelines for his transition team. They are expected to include a prohibition on transition advisers' lobbying the government on any subject related to their transition activities for six months after Mr. Clinton takes office and a prohibition on any contact by transition members with their private clients while working on the transition.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President-elect Bill Clinton's transition team referred incorrectly in some copies to the law firm in which a Clinton adviser, Samuel R. Berger, is a partner. It is Hogan & Hartson, in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); ETHNICITY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); REICH, ROBERT B; BERGER, SAMUEL R BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



446 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Without Dire Steps, New York Finds Air Is Cleaner

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

 BODY:
To meet clean air requirements, New York City officials have, over the years, considered banning trucks from midtown Manhattan, placing tolls on East River bridges and insisting on "no drive days," when commuters would be barred from driving into the city more than four days a week.
But in an unexpected turnaround, city officials now say they they won't have to do any of these things to meet carbon-monoxide standards. In fact, they say, they probably won't have to do anything at all, because the city's air is becoming cleaner without new restrictions. 
 New York City has not exceeded the federally acceptable levels of carbon monoxide on a single day so far this year, the first time that has happened since the standard was set up 20 years ago. Officials now predict they will have no trouble meeting the Federal Clean Air Act standards that go into effect at the end of 1995.
Environmental officials and other experts agree that the improvement in air quality is largely a result of better car-emission technology and of gasoline with fewer pollutants. As people buy new cars in the next few years, they say, carbon-monoxide levels will continue to descend.
"Until we saw these trends, we thought we'd have to demand some serious transportation-control measures," said Antonia Bryson, the city's Deputy Commissioner of Environmental Protection for air policy and programs. "We don't want to say we're completely out of the woods, but there is a good trend here."
New York's clean air estimates are part of a report to be submitted today to the Federal Environmental Protection Agency on how New York State plans to meet the 1995 standards. Elements of the state's submission are incomplete, officials say, but the city has made a persuasive case that it has met interim carbon-monoxide requirements.
The Federal Government had set a Nov. 15 deadline for the report because the seven-county area that includes New York City and Westchester and Nassau counties was designated a "moderate high" area for carbon monoxide levels in 1990.
At the highest reading of the last decade, one of the city's four monitoring stations found that carbon-monoxide levels exceeded Federal standards on 71 days during 1985. The four stations are at 59th Street and Third Avenue, on Canal Street in lower Manhattan, at Flatbush Avenue and Tillary Street in Brooklyn and at the entrance to the Queens-Midtown Tunnel at 34th Street and Second Avenue.
But New York's satisfaction with the air measurements is not without its skeptics.
 
Skeptics Are Critical
 Environmental experts criticized the city's method of collecting carbon-monoxide data, saying that relying on only four monitors was inadequate.
"There have certainly been reductions in carbon-monoxide levels, thanks largely to better controls on motor vehicles," said Eric Goldstein, a lawyer with the Environmental Resource Defense Council. "But to plop down a handful of monitors and say that the problem is solved goes too far."
And others cautioned that the city's report would make officials lax in giving their attention to mass transit, which they called the single most important factor in controlling air pollution.
"The biggest issue in air quality over the long term is mass transportation," said James Tripp, a lawyer at the Environmental Defense Fund. "Protecting the fare and the quality of the transit system is essential."
City officials said that the cleaner air readings were in part the result of tough new Federal vehicle-inspection rules in the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut region that were promulgated last week and require stricter checks for pollution emissions.
 
Gasoline Regulations
 Maura Fitzpatrick, director of policy analysis in the Department of Environmental Protection's bureau of air policy and programs, said that perhaps the most significant change in carbon-monoxide pollution levels had come from a 1989 agreement among states along the Eastern Seaboard to adopt regulations for gasoline with a lower level of volatility, which produces cleaner emissions. Starting in 1990, all gasoline sold in New York State has had to meet this standard.
"The aim was to alleviate our ozone problem, but it had the second and unpredicted effect of lowering carbon-monoxide levels as well," she said.
New York State needs to meet Federal requirements for three kinds of air pollutants: carbon monoxide, ozone and small particulate matter. Around the United States, ground-level ozone is perhaps the most serious air pollutant, and the Clean Air Act also requires New York State to submit a separate plan on how it will try to reduce ozone levels in successive stages from now to the year 2007.
Another factor in lowering carbon-monoxide levels, Ms. Fitzpatrick said, is a Federal requirement that beginning Nov. 1 an oxygen additive be put in all gasoline sold in regions with high carbon-monoxide levels.
"The estimated effectiveness of this program is quite high," she said. "It's a lot of bang for the buck."
The recent recession did not significantly affect the carbon-monoxide levels, she said. While it reduced the number of daily commuters it also meant that fewer people were able to buy new cars, which produce less pollution than older ones.
To comply with clean air standards, a group of officials from different city agencies had drawn up a list of possible measures over the last year.
Among the more drastic were limiting truck access to parts of midtown Manhattan, charging tolls on all city bridges that are now free, extending bus-only lanes on major highways and designating "no drive days" for private vehicles.
Although such measures would have had to pass multiple political hurdles before they could be implemented, Ms. Fitzpatrick said many officials assumed that the clean air requirements would act as "a gun to our heads," forcing the city to get the measures approved. She noted that according to Federal clean air requirements, billions of dollars in transportation funds could be revoked if the air standards were not met.
If the Federal Environmental Protection Agency deems the state submission incomplete, and the state does not comply within 18 months, the agency can demand that other pollutants be reduced.
The Department of Transportation announced a series of measures earlier this week aimed at improving traffic flow and reducing air pollution by using Federal money earmarked for such purposes.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in The Metro Section on Friday about air pollution characterized the data incorrectly. The graphs showed only pollution from carbon monoxide, primarily a wintertime pollutant, and did not show smog, primarily a summertime pollutant. The adjoining article made the distinction between the two types of pollution, but failed to say that some of the same control measures, including limits on car traffic into Manhattan, could be required to combat smog even if the carbon monoxide problem was solved.

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "POLLUTION: Complying With Smog Standards"
 
While pollution experts feared that New York City would not be able to conform to Federal smog standards by 1996, measurements of carbon monoxide, a principle component of smog, have gone down, according to the New York City Environmental Protection Dept. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (50%); NEW YORK (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; FEDERAL CLEAN AIR ACT; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CARBON MONOXIDE AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); CARBON MONOXIDE (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRENDS (88%); COUNTIES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); POLLUTION MONITORING (72%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



447 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: News Analysis;
In Command Of Language

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Words are George Bush's enemies; President-elect Bill Clinton showed today that they can be his friends.
That was the dominant impression of a Presidential style in embryo as it emerged from Mr. Clinton's first full-dress news conference since his victory 10 days ago. Whatever one thought of the substance of what he said -- and there was plenty of room for argument, because he stated his view bluntly in some cases -- the man from Little Rock left not the slightest doubt that the White House will get its syntax tightened when he moves in on Jan. 20. 
 Mr. Clinton has no experience in the Federal Government, and Mr. Bush made much of that in his losing re-election campaign. But the Arkansas Governor showed a command of the details and nuances of a wide range of topics, from Haitian refugees and Washington lobbying to the savings and loan scandal. He sounded as if he had been dealing daily with such issues for a long time.
Of course, the trademark windiness, which the country experienced during the 1988 and 1992 Democratic conventions, made an occasional reappearance. And skeptics noted his tendency, displayed during the campaign, to rely on stagy mannerisms, like biting his lip and lowering his eyes in a show of modesty.
But where Mr. Bush often favored an elliptical approach, Mr. Clinton took most questions head on: Yes. No. I haven't decided yet. I've decided but I'm not going to tell you yet.
The President-elect made it clear that he would take his time making appointments, whatever his critics said, but he also made it clear that his would be an activist Administration, with the top man more deeply immersed in the minutiae of governing than any, perhaps, since Lyndon B. Johnson.
 
'Having a Wonderful Time'
 Asked whether he felt overwhelmed by his new responsibilities, Mr. Clinton, a real government-lover, answered, "No, I'm having a wonderful time."
All of this offers signposts to the future. An American politican's style, knowledge and composure when standing behind a lectern, fielding reporters' questions, can be every bit as important in this country as a European politician's ability to answer questions posed in parliament, or a corporate chairman's capacity to handle the queries of his stockholders.
The press conference is one of the few occasions when the nation gets a look at a President in a situation over which he has only partial control, at best, and his early outings help to form an impression that lasts and lasts.
Press conferences have helped make some Presidents and break others. The coltish charm and quick wit of John F. Kennedy, the easy familiarity of Gerald R. Ford and the effortless command of that old theatrical pro, Ronald Reagan, helped them put their ideas across. Richard M. Nixon's evident defensiveness and nervousness, President Johnson's chronic whining and exaggeration and Mr. Bush's spaghetti sentences all got in the way of effective communication.
 
Long but Clear Sentences
 Mr. Clinton manages, somehow, to put together long, involved sentences on the spur of the moment without tripping over his tongue. Here, unedited, is what he said today about the sort of person he wants to manage his foreign policy:
"I want a Secretary of State who understands that we have obligations of continuity and obligations of change, and that basically the pillars of our national security and foreign policy ought to be a different but still very strong defense, a commitment to global growth and economic regeneration here, and the fulfilling of our responsibility as the world's sole superpower to try to promote democracy and freedom, and restrain the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction."
Mr. Bush's sentences, on the other hand, often do not parse at all. Here, for instance, is the beginning of his reply to a question about tax cuts at a news conference a year ago, on Oct. 26, 1991:
"I think it's understandable, when you have a bad -- economic numbers come in from time to time, mixed, I must happily say, with some reasonably good ones, other people get concerned. I'm concerned. But I don't want to do -- take -- I don't want to say to them, 'Well, you shouldn't come forward with proposals.' "
 
A Picture of Youth
 The President-elect also indicated a preference for grander, more official settings than those favored by Mr. Bush, who liked impromptu sessions in the White House briefing room. Mr. Clinton is not yet in office, but he opted for flags and formality, like Mr. Nixon and especially Mr. Reagan, although the President-elect told reporters he was "a real sort of informal person."
Like President Kennedy, Mr. Clinton clearly intends to project a picture of youth and vigor, not least to differentiate himself from Mr. Bush and the Republicans. He told a friend last week that the President lost "partly because he seemed worn out." To reinforce his youthful image, he brought Vice President-elect Al Gore out to stand behind him, mute, during the entire news conference.
Like President Reagan, who also lacked a military record, Mr. Clinton wants to project a bit of the John Wayne, tough-guy swagger. Anyone riffling through State Department files on his watch, he said, will be fired the day after he or she is caught.
He claimed no broad mandate for any of his specific proposals, like the middle-class tax cut or slashing the military budget. But he did see in the pattern of election returns a public demand for an end to partisan squabbling and legislative gridlock. He heard that from individual voters and read about it in his private polls.
Which is why he turned the other cheek to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the acerbic if able Republican leader in the Senate; why he pledged again to appoint Republicans to senior positions, and why he praised Mr. Reagan's skill at legislative packaging and Mr. Bush's success in keeping the National Security Council and the State Department on the same track.
While Mr. Clinton stated firmly his determination to change the Pentagon's policy toward homosexuals, which he can do with a mere stroke of a pen, it has always been his style to make a great show of consensus-seeking with a Legislature that often fought him. So it was not surprising that the President-elect pledged to explore the issue with the top brass and with others who strongly disagree with him before taking action. That way, no one can accuse him of heedless arrogance.
Similarly, on Haiti, he reaffirmed his intention to give asylum-seekers some sort of hearing before sending them home, but he showed an awareness of the trouble that could cause and of the important distinction between economic and political refugees.
It was in his answer to a question about unrealistic expectations, however, that Mr. Clinton most clearly set the tone for the months ahead.
"I expect to keep the focus on these economic issues and I'm not trying to scale back, or scale down, or anything else," he said. "I think the American people understand that these problems are of long duration and there won't be any overnight miracles, but I think they expect aggressive and prompt action and I'm going to give it to them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dee Dee Myers, spokeswoman for President-elect Bill Clinton, speaking with reporters yesterday after Mr. Clinton's news conference. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); LOBBYING (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (53%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1992



448 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 6; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Federal Loans to Aid Nonprofit Theaters

 BODY:
More than 140 Off and Off Off Broadway nonprofit theaters may be able to renovate their theaters or purchase larger quarters with their shares of a $1.5 million low-interest loan program of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 The program was announced by the Alliance of Resident Theaters/ New York, a membership organization of nonprofit theater companies; the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and the office of Congressman Bill Green, a Manhattan Republican.
Criteria for applicants are being presently decided upon by the alliance and the city agency. The first loans are expected to be granted Feb. 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD); ALLIANCE OF RESIDENT
THEATERS/NEW YORK NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (64%); MANHATTAN REPUBLICAN (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD); ALLIANCE OF RESIDENT
THEATERS/NEW YORK US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FEDERAL AID (US) THEATER (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (87%); THEATER COMPANIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1992



449 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Our History vs. Clinton's Covenant

BYLINE: By Orlando Patterson; Orlando Patterson, professor of sociology at Harvard, is completing the second volume of his book "Freedom."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
It has taken two centuries of struggle for America to remedy the egregious compromises that made its Constitution possible. The election of Bill Clinton, along with his running mate, another young Southerner, may mark a watershed in this historic remedy, one that holds special hope for African-Americans, for women and for all who now feel insecure and alienated from the American dream.
One powerful theme ran through his speeches at the Democratic convention and on election night: the Puritan ideal of America as a covenanted society. 
 Stripped of its religious traces, this is a vision of society in which free, responsible agents work, in the President-elect's words, with "a new spirit of community, a sense that we are all in this together," toward the construction of a just society. It remains profoundly American in its introspective individualism. But it nonetheless insists that all rights are socially constructed, not inherent -- that, as Mr. Clinton said, there are no rights without responsibilities.
Liberty has to mean something more than brute escape from authority into selfishness, embracing, at the very least, care for the needs and aspirations of other covenanted individuals in the conscious pursuit of the good life.
It was the freest and most powerful of Southern aristocrats who, in leading our nation to independence from Britain, became not only our Founding Fathers but the source of a radically different conception of individual and society. The Southern aristocratic ideal of freedom as an inherited quality of the individual -- expressed through power over others in a hierarchical, paternalistic order -- joined with the old European notion of natural rights to fashion the distinctly American conception of the individual as a bearer of inalienable rights.
Under the impact of the evangelical doctrine of equality before God and the fraternal impulse of revolution, this aristocratic ideal was further democratized to the glorious belief that all men are created equal.
But however great in theory and promise, this was made possible only through the most horrible compromise, a "compact with death." That fifth of the nation comprising enslaved African-Americans and the half of white people who were women were not only left out of Madison's "workshop of liberty." Their exclusion became a required basis of solidarity and identity in the emerging polity of free, prosperous white men.
Those who voted for Bill Clinton now want to believe that what he said in his acceptance and victory speeches was not merely an adolescent echo of John Kennedy but the reclamation of something far more profound. This was a promise to reach back, with all of us, and to right the wrong that was done, by restoring to the alienated members of the nation the discarded vision of a covenant that now includes all.
In spite of his muted racial rhetoric, African-Americans are strongly drawn to the President-elect. After the dastardly symbolic use of Willie Horton four years ago, every African-American, except Jesse Jackson, understood the poisonous potency of the Republican "Southern strategy" and the need to checkmate it. Mr. Clinton's program, if it works, will encompass African-Americans as Americans rather than as blacks.
But they are also drawn to him precisely because, among whites, only a regenerate Southerner can truly empathize with the full horror of our racist heritage. Much has been said in powerful symbolic ways, such as his off-camera engagement with African-American congregations.
The brutal assault on his character, all the hypocritical talk about trust and fidelity, struck the memory of the African-American like familiar sermons from the great house. His cool survival of every adversity was almost a prototype of the collective African-American experience. And it meant a great deal that this promised agent of change gave his victory speech at the Old State House in Little Rock, not far from Central High, that secular Calvary of the civil rights movement.
But if Mr. Clinton's covenant message brings hope to dispossessed African-Americans and the even larger numbers of white poor, it also poses a serious challenge. To join the public household of this great nation is to share responsibility for its fortunes and for one's failings.
The single mother who, correctly, insists on her right to the best possible care and education for herself and her children must accept the entailed duty of responsible parenting. The same principle holds for farmers, Social Security pensioners and all others who benefit from entitlements and subsidies. Without such a moral and social contract, the President-elect's domestic plan is headed for disaster.
For women, generally, his victory has great meaning. The attempt to replace Willie Horton with a demonized Hillary Clinton points to the persistent evil that requires the joint exclusion of blacks and women in the construction of divisive unity -- "We who are Americans; they who are not." Its failure this time around sustains our hope that there is, at least, a remedying of that "compact with death" at our constitutional convention.
But the greatest reason for hope in this victory lies elsewhere. Because it was our Southern "Fathers" who first shattered the Northern vision of a covenanted society, it is only right, and perhaps only possible, that a Southern leader should return to that abandoned vision -- not simply to resurrect it but to refashion it so as to balance the vital, but potentially destructive principle of the autonomous individual in full pursuit of his or her own interests.
It is its dangers that now threaten us, caught as we are in a seemingly visionless society, a leaderless polity, and a faltering, uncoordinated economy. These become structural flaws only if unchecked.
What is required may already have been given some three and a half centuries ago by Thomas Hooker: "There must of necessity be a mutuall ingagement, each of the other . . . they should first freely ingage in such covenants, and then be carefull to fullfill such duties." This may not be all we need to know, but it is what we all must do.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); SLAVERY (70%); 

PERSON: PATTERSON, ORLANDO (PROF); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992



450 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC REPORTS ARE GIVING SIGNALS OF A QUICKER PACE

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
The path of economic recovery brightened today as the Government reported that retail sales rose nine-tenths of 1 percent last month and pollsters at the University of Michigan found consumer confidence soaring in the first half of November.
Combined with yet another decline in first-time jobless claims that was reported Thursday, today's findings raised hopes among many economists that the exceptionally sluggish business recovery may finally be gaining some momentum. 
 "This forced us to sit down and look at the models again," Raymond A. Warseck, chief economist for A. G. Edwards in St. Louis, said of today's retail data, which showed a fourth straight monthly gain and the biggest since July.
 
Faster Growth Is Seen
 One result was to raise by one-half point, to 4 percent, the firm's estimate of the pace of economic growth for the second quarter of 1993.
Tracy Mullin, an official of the National Retail Federation, called the figures evidence of "a sense of optimism and hope among the buying public" that bodes well for the holiday season.
Consumer optimism might also be seen in early November's auto sales, which were up 21.6 percent. [Page 35.] Still another report today found inflation at the consumer level rose four-tenths of 1 percent in October, a bigger-than-expected increase but one that most analysts dismissed as an aberration. [Page 43.]
Earlier in the week, the Labor Department said that prices received by producers in October declined slightly for goods at the intermediate and crude stages of production and that there was a decline for finished goods when the erratic food and energy components were excluded.
 
An Increase in Optimism
 The University of Michigan does not discuss current results of its proprietary consumer-confidence survey, but Wall Street subscribers said the survey's overall confidence index jumped to 83.6 in the first half of November from 73.3 at the end of October. Readings for expectations and for current conditions rose similarly, to 75.1 and 96.7, respectively, these sources said.
The overall index has regained all the loss of confidence registered since mid-1991, according to analysts at C. J. Lawrence.
One reason for the upsurge in confidence was said to be the Nov. 3 election, which presumably encouraged those who supported Gov. Bill Clinton while removing uncertainty, at least, for those who did not.
Officials at the university's Survey Research Center could not be reached late today to respond to inquiries on whether election questions were posed or whether tabulations were made of responses volunteered on the subject.
This week's upbeat news followed much anecdotal information of a business pickup during the last month or so. Among these, contributing to what Mr. Warseck called a mood shift, were increased traffic in auto showrooms and at model homes and people reporting unusual difficulty in getting taxis.
In late October, the Commerce Department reported that total national output for the July-September quarter climbed at a 2.7 percent annual rate, nearly twice what had been expected. This gain was powered mainly by increased consumer spending, which many thought unsustainable, but other data now suggest that the long period of retrenching by consumers may be on the wane.
Still, some indicators, including the October jobs report, have been lackluster, and even the more optimistic of economists said today that there were some regions, California being a prominent example, where business continued to worsen and others where conditions remained flat.
Although retail sales were thought to have benefited from the continued cleanup from Hurricane Andrew, the October gains were nonetheless considered solid. In addition, September's increase was revised upward to five-tenths of 1 percent and August now shows a tiny gain of one-tenth of 1 percent instead of no change.
"October started off the quarter pretty well," observed Kathryn Eickhoff, president of Eickhoff Economics, a consulting firm. She said she was particularly encouraged that furniture sales continued to rise.
Ms. Eickhoff also said that while incomes had been growing slowly, the steady decline in first-time jobless claims, to below 400,000, put them at a level associated historically with significant economic growth.
The Commerce Department's report on sales, considered a good indicator of current conditions even though revisions are often sizable, showed durable goods rising 1.7 percent and nondurables rising four-tenths of 1 percent.
Excluding the automotive sector, which Detroit reports every 10 days and thus comes as little surprise, retail sales rose four-tenths of 1 percent in both October and September.
Among durables, sales rose 2.9 percent at automotive dealers; 2 percent for merchants selling furniture, home furnishings and equipment, and seven-tenths of 1 percent for dealers in building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes.
For nondurables, which accounted for $103.4 billion of the $163.3 billion total, the gains were nine-tenths of 1 percent for general merchandise stores; 1 percent for food stores; 1.4 percent for apparel and accessory stores, and three-tenths of 1 percent for gasoline service stations.
Restaurants and bars, however, posted a decline of four-tenths of 1 percent while sales at drug and proprietary stores fell eight-tenths of 1 percent.
Michael P. Niemira, an economist at Mitsubishi Bank, observed in a recent market letter that nondurables had been much slower to rebound than durables. Today's report showed durables up 8.1 percent in the last 12 months while nondurables rose only 4.3 percent.
Mr. Niemira also pointed to a divergence within nondurables as general merchandise, apparel and gasoline have bounced back while food-related sales -- grocery stores, bars and restaurants -- have been weakening for three years.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales" shows total retail sales from May 1991 to Oct. 1992. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN C J LAWRENCE MORGAN GRENFELL INC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PUBLIC OPINION; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



451 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
TOKYO MAY RETREAT ON PLUTONIUM
Because of world protests over a shipment of plutonium from Europe, Japan hinted that it might scale back plans for 30 more shipments of the nuclear fuel in the next decade. 1
 
SHIITE GROUP GAINS IN LEBANON
Backed by guns and money from Iran and by Syria's support and troops, the Shiite Muslim Party of God has emerged as the most powerful force in Lebanon. 1
 
UNIVERSITY AS AN EXAMPLE
Students at the West Bank's elite university have held a politically charged but peaceful campus election that is being cited as proof that the occupied territories are ready for democracy. 2
 
COUP ATTEMPT FAILS IN PERU
Peru's Government said it had crushed a coup attempt by a group of army officers who tried to seize army headquarters and the national palace and kill the President. 3
 
A BLACK RUNS FOR RIO MAYOR
A 50-year-old black congresswoman is rattling Latin dominance of politics by campaigning strongly in Rio de Janeiro's mayoral elections. 3
 
EUROPEAN UNITY UNDER THREAT
The goal of economic and political unity in the European Community has been hurt by the political leadership in France, Britain and Germany and by economic problems in the major European countries. 3
 
A MURDER IN WARSAW
The Polish authorities say they are nowhere near solving the brutal slaying of Piotr Jaroszewicz, Poland's hard-line Communist Prime Minister from 1970 to 1980, and his wife in September in Warsaw. 4
 
MIDEAST MUSLIMS FIGHT IN BOSNIA
Images of bombed-out mosques and dead Muslims have persuaded fighters to leave the Mideast and take up arms against the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 5
 
DEATH TOLL PUT AT 100,000
The Foreign Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovnia, in Germany to establish diplomatic relations, said 100,000 people, most of them Muslims, had been killed in Serbian attacks on his country since the spring. 5
 
A truce brought people out into the streets of Sarajevo. 5
 
National 6-9
 
NEW SIGNS OF RECOVERY
The Government reported that retail sales rose 0.9 percent in October, and researchers at the University of Michigan found consumer confidence soaring in the first half of November. 1
 
The head of Bush's economic council defended his fiscal policies. 8
 
PASSPORT-FILE CASE TAKES A TURN
The State Department official dismissed this week for authorizing a search of Bill Clinton's passport files has told investigators that the search was approved by the Under Secretary of State for Management, one of the highest-ranking political appointees in the department. 1
 
A criminal inquiry on the F.B.I. Director was dropped. 6
 
CLINTON ISSUES ETHICS GUIDELINES
For six months after the inauguration, members of the President-elect's transition team will be barred from lobbying Federal agencies with which they have dealt. In addition, they must have no involvement in transition decisions that could affect their financial interests. 1
 
The ethics rules drew praise, and then some criticism. 8
 
Clinton and the military remain at odds on gay rights. 9
 
THE REMAKING OF THE CLINTONS
A confidential Democratic campaign memo written in April launched one of the most ambitious efforts at political rehabilitation ever undertaken: casting Bill and Hillary Clinton, whom many voters did not care for, as an honest, plain-folks idealist and his warm and loving wife. 1
 
PRISON OF TERRORS
In one of the most severe cases of sexual abuse in the history of women's prisons in America, 14 former employees of a Georgia corrections center were indicted on rape and other charges. Investigators said at least 119 women had been identified as victims. 1
 
OFFICERS IN BEATING CASE GAIN
A judge dealt a setback to Federal prosecutors by ruling out a critical line of evidence in the civil rights trial stemming from the police beating of Rodney G. King. 6
 
BAD SPLIT IN OREGON G.O.P.
In a political civil war that presages a battle for the soul of the national Republican Party, the Republican state chairman in Oregon has threatened to form an independent branch of the party that would be free of the religious right. 6
 
NEW FINDING ON ALCOHOLISM
Researchers said a prescription drug that reduces a recovering alcoholic's craving appeared to show great promise of preventing alcoholism relapses. 7
 
Beliefs: A new statistic prompts a second look at a Catholic era. 7
 
Sports 28-32
 
YACHTSMAN MISSING AT SEA
One of the world's most experienced long-distance sailors, Mike Plant of Jamestown, R.I., is 13 days overdue on his one-man journey across the Atlantic Ocean. 1
 
Baseball: Agent says Yanks have dibs on Howe. 30
 
Basketball: Knicks lose first game of the season. 29
 
Nets' Bowie prepares for Orlando's O'Neal. 31
 
Boxing: Bowe takes heavyweight title from Holyfield. 29
 
W.B.C. to test top fighters for the virus that causes AIDS. 31
 
Column: Anderson on the new heavyweight champion.29
 
Football: Giants Notebook 30
 
Jets' Baxter gets the ball and thrives. 30
 
Sugar Bowl could decide who's No. 1. 30
 
College preview 32
 
Hockey: Devils defeat Capitals. 30
 
Scholastic: High school football preview32
 
Metro Digest 21
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-14
 
Peter Brook's new work. 11
 
Music: George Jones. 11
 
Survey of piano music. 11
 
Classical Music in Review 12
 
Dance in Review 13
 
Obituaries 27
 
Prof. Arpad E. Elo; inventor of chess ratings system.
 
Stanley V. Margolis, professor of geology and geochemist.
 
William Hillcourt, author of the "Official Boy Scout Handbook."
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
 
A smart start on ethics.
 
Who got stung? Not Iraq.
 
Prejudice on parade.
 
Public school choice, perfected.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Outbreak of wonkery.
 
Henry J. Aaron: What's the rush on health care?
 
Tanya L. Domi: Let women prove they can fight.
 
Charles Rembar: Jeeves unmasked. Finally. Maybe.
 
Craig Whitaker: Slow down, Mr. Trump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); POLAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PERU (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); POLAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PERU (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUPS (90%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); RELIGION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ARMIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); MAYORS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICS (75%); MURDER (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LOBBYING (69%); SALES FIGURES (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); APPROVALS (65%); ETHICS (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); RANKINGS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



452 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The Latest Party Zone

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
It was time for another drink on the Upper East Side, which for Ronald Then involved pressing his lips against a sloped, two-foot slab of ice as two flavors of liquor, in this case tequila and Jagermeister, sloshed into his mouth. This is called a slalom shot. Mr. Then, a 22-year-old student from Washington Heights, said it was one of many reasons he traveled south to drink.
"When we go out drinking, we go for broke," he said after wiping his mouth dry at the Ski Bar, a popular club at Second Avenue and 94th Street with an Alpine motif and the nothing-can-be-this-fun feel of a beer commercial. "There is no limit to it. It's until you pass out." 
 People who live and drink on the Upper East Side describe the night life there as something distinct in this city of 4,875 places to have a beer. What they mean is that the opening of 25 new bars in the last few years has turned the area between 76th and 96th Streets, York to Third Avenue, into something of a party zone just one remove from a college dormitory.
The bars, each with themes and drink giveaways more reminiscent of campuses than cities, cater not only to an increasing number of young people in the neighborhood, but also to more young drinkers from around the city and the region. All of which has led residents of the staid Upper East Side to complain, though less frequently of late, that patrons are noisy and inconsiderate and urinate on the sidewalks.
Though similar to the crowd on the Upper West Side -- suburban, professional and white -- the East Side crowd is younger and less genteel, with no pretensions to hipness and a perhaps commendable lack of irony. There also appears to be a youthful determination, unhaunted by hangovers, to drink and get drunk (or else get a few telephone numbers).
"It is a mixture between preppies, like a preppie-yuppie mixture, and your hoods," said Robert Ryder, 21, a college student whose lacrosse jacket and oxford shirt placed him somewhere along the preppie-yuppie continuum. The difference, Mr. Ryder suggested, is that his type did not vote for Bill Clinton, and the rest "aren't out to make a good life for themselves."
Despite Mr. Ryder's observations, three recent nights of barhopping along the Upper East Side uncovered few major rifts between someone like Mr. Then, who commutes to drink, and Mr. Ryder, who lives there. If anything, bar patrons on the Upper East Side are more self-admittedly homogeneous than anywhere else.
"I like these bars because it's a young Republican crowd, which is what I like because that is what I am," said Jerry Miller, a 26-year-old investment banker, as he nursed a beer in Spanky's, a narrow sports bar on First Avenue and 75th Street.
Sondra Stallard, a 25-year-old account executive, complained that the Upper East Side, while safe and cheap, is almost exactly like college -- except that you do not see the same people every night. Which does not matter, because most everyone looks alike, either in Wall Street suits or crew-neck sweaters.
"They have this, like, polish," Ms. Stallard said in the Clubhouse, a popular bar with a fraternity-house atmosphere on York Avenue between 83d and 84th Streets. "They always shine. They are always so freshly showered." But this homogeneity carries an advantage: it provides a natural pick-up atmosphere in an area buzzing with pickup lines, which women said recently fell along the lines of "Who will you vote for?" and "Where are you from?"
"They act like they know you," said Kathy Scales, 22, from Woodstock, N.Y., who has lived in the city for three months. "They say, 'Didn't I go to college with you?' "
 
A Whiff of Notoriety
 There is, of course, not too much new about a lot of young people drinking a lot on the Upper East Side. In fact, the area has carried a whiff of notoriety at least since 1986, when Jennifer Levin, 18, was strangled in Central Park by Robert E. Chambers Jr. after the two met in Dorrian's Red Hand.
It is difficult to tell whether attitudes toward drinking have changed much since then, a time when the city, from financial markets to bars, seemed to be teetering on the edge of excess. Sam O'Connor, head of the East Side Bar Owners Association, said that young people seem to be drinking less these days, partly because of health, partly because of the recession and partly because of concern for their jobs.
"People can't go out because it affects their performance at work," said Mr. O'Connor, owner of Avalon, a bar at Second Avenue and 85th Street. "People don't write things off the way they used to. Remember the old martini lunch? That just doesn't exist anymore."
A bouncer at Spanky's said that the bar averages only about $4.50 per person a night when the total should be closer to $8.
But there is plenty of evidence that drinking is alive and well, especially among those right out of college.
"They are between the ages of 21 and 23," said Doug Torres, the manager of Name This Joint, on Third Avenue and 92d Street, "and they are working at their jobs during the week and they don't get paid very much. So on a Friday and Saturday they want to take what little they make and get as hammered as possible."
One woman, a 23-year-old Wall Street analyst, estimated how much she drinks each night out, two or three times a week. "Let's see, three beers, three bars; probably nine drinks," she said at Name This Joint as a waitress passed with a tray of Jell-O shots. "That's beer. Nobody drinks liquor."
 
Residents Complain
 Beer, liquor or slalom shots, the amount of alcohol consumed has an effect on behavior, and residents have complained that the behavior has been atrocious. At the Mill, a bar on York Avenue, residents pelted patrons with eggs on the street earlier this year to stop the noise and rowdiness.
"I do think young people today are rowdier," said Richard Murphy, the owner of the Clubhouse and the president of the Manhattan Restaurant Association. "I just think they are louder. And I don't think they are as respectful of other people's rights as young people were 10 or 20 years ago.
"This puts an extra responsibility on the bar owners and the staff of the places to work harder at educating about the rights of people in these neighborhoods," he said.
The situation got so bad that local politicians sat down with bar owners and demanded changes. More bars now have bouncers to stop under-age drinking and to police the sidewalks, there are signs in bars pleading for responsibility, and bar owners say they keep a closer eye on their customers.
These changes have apparently had an effect. State Assemblyman John Ravitz, Republican from the 66th District, said that since early summer, complaints from residents have trailed off dramatically.
One person who has not noticed a change, however, is J. R. Clay, a 49-year-old homeless man who panhandles in front of the Outback on Third Avenue. He complains that the young drinkers are loud and rude, much more than when he was growing up in Harlem, and occasionally try to humiliate him because he lives on the streets. But like the bar owners, he depends on them.
"I haven't eaten yet," he said, shortly after 11 P.M. on a recent Friday. "I have to wait until they get drunk."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Thursday night at the Clubhouse, Maggie Scherr, 22, and Katie Pottinger, 22, who are both actresses, celebrated recent breaks in their careers. (Debra Dipeso for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UPPER EAST SIDE (MANHATTAN); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); SKIING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



453 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The economic recovery appears to be gathering momentum. Retail sales rose 0.9 percent in October, and a University of Michigan survey found consumer confidence soaring in the first half of November. The findings raised hopes that the sluggish business recovery may finally be gaining strength. [Page 1.]
Sales of U.S.-built vehicles rose 21.6 percent in early November, with light trucks accounting for most of the increase. Car sales rose 7.9 percent, while light trucks advanced 44.6 percent. [35.] 
 Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in October, an increase suggesting that some inflationary pressures exist. The increase was the largest since a rise of 0.5 percent in March. [43.]
 
 International
Fujitsu of Japan has arranged its first supercomputer sale in North America since re-entering the market. The machine is being purchased by a nonprofit Canadian consortium. [35.]
 
Companies
Humana plans to stop paying dividends next year, and investors rushed to sell their shares in the hospital and managed-health-care company. Humana shares plunged $4, to close at $19.875, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange. [37.]
Hughes Aircraft appointed heads of two new overseas ventures charged with developing more foreign business. Hughes is seeking to broaden its customer list as military budgets decline. [37.]
Honda and Mazda reported sharply lower profits for the first half of the fiscal year. Honda's net income slumped 7 percent while Mazda's earnings plunged 85 percent. [37.]
Earnings at Berkshire Hathaway dropped nearly 60 percent, mainly because of insurance losses from Hurricane Andrew. Berkshire is headed by the noted investor Warren E. Buffett. [37.]
First New York Bank for Business was closed by banking regulators, and its deposits were sold to First Merchants Bank. The bank was founded in 1975 as First Women's Bank. [37.]
Los Alamos National Lab will develop a computer program to simulate chemical reactions in a refinery. [37.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks fell modestly although technology companies and other smaller issues showed strength. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 6.76 points to close at 3,233.03. [36.]
Bond prices fell on the reports of stronger economic trends. Short-term Treasury bills were especially depressed. [43.]
Coffee futures prices surged to a seven-month high as worries about tightening supplies from South America intensified. [44.] The dollar was generally lower as interest rates declined abroad. [44.]
 
 Your Money
Valuables and documents may be difficult to locate when someone dies. A property inventory is an essential adjunct to a will, and without it, heirs may face large expenses and great frustrations in searching out the assets of a testator. [33.]
The Made in the U.S.A. fund appeals to investors' patriotism. But the company that is marketing the new mutual fund has been indicted for its handling of customers' money, and the fund's guidelines are vague about its standards for buying stocks. [33.]
It may be time to repay loans borrowed against life insurance policies. The interest is no longer tax deductible, and the returns from other investments are no longer attractive. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%); DTV (NASDAQ) (55%); BRK.B (NYSE) (54%); BRK.A (NYSE) (54%); FRME (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FUJITSU LTD (56%); DIRECTV (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (54%); FIRST MERCHANTS CORP (53%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MERCHANT BANKING (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); FUTURES (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); COFFEE MARKETS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); COFFEE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); INSURANCE (68%); INDICTMENTS (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); HURRICANES (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



454 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The Old Team;
President's Economic Stewards Defend Reputations and Actions

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
For the Bush Administration's economic stewards, these are trying times. Everyone knows the bad economy sank President Bush, and a lot of people are pointing fingers at those who steered the economic ship.
With their reputations on the line, the men who argued and fought over the economic policies of the last four years are now fighting for the white hats in the history books. 
 Last month, several articles in The Washington Post described a gallant struggle by Mr. Bush's director of the Office of Management and Budget, Richard G. Darman, to slay the deficit dragon and steer the nation clear of recession. The articles, relying heavily on statements from the budget director, were widely viewed here as Mr. Darman's parting shots at his colleagues.
On Thursday, the chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, Michael J. Boskin, took his turn, in his earnest, polite way. Without throwing any hatchets, he took to the morning talk shows to give his reading on the economy and to show that he had not been sitting on his hands when the economy fizzled.
With conservatives snapping that Mr. Bush's advisers should have been more aggressive about reviving the economy, Mr. Boskin explained that late last year he pushed for an economic stimulus package that included tax cuts as well as future spending cuts to reduce the deficit. The hope was this would pep up the economy in time for the Presidential campaign.
Appearing on the NBC program "Today," Mr. Boskin noted that the stimulus package he favored was somewhat larger than the one President Bush proposed last January.
"I think it would have been desirable to be more aggressive, but, you know, hindsight is seductive," he said. "It doesn't do anybody any good to go back and look at what might have been."
In interviews, other Administration officials said Mr. Boskin's call for stepped-up stimulus had been blocked because other policy makers had worried that it would increase the deficit, frighten financial markets and get mangled by the Democrats in Congress.
Congress did not approve the President's stimulus package, which called for tax credits for first-time home buyers and cuts in the capital gains tax. Mr. Boskin said the package "would have helped the economy grow more rapidly this year and create about a half million more jobs."
Some officials say Mr. Boskin failed to persuade the President to embrace a more ambitious package largely because he, Mr. Boskin, had been eclipsed in power by Mr. Darman, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and the former White House chief of staff, John H. Sununu.
Like the Administration's other economic policy makers, Mr. Boskin is eager to tell the world that he is not responsible for the nation's economic woes, or, if that does not work, at least argue that the economy was not as sick as many Americans think.
"The economy has been growing for a year and a half, starting in the spring of 1991, but too slowly to make any of us happy," he said on "Today." "But things are not nearly as poor as the campaign rhetoric and political hyperbole would suggest."
In recent speeches, Mr. Boskin has asserted that the economy had performed much better under President Bush than under President Jimmy Carter, when unemployment was higher, inflation was soaring to more than 10 percent and interest rates were rising to more than 20 percent. But many economists quarrel with this assertion, noting that growth under Mr. Bush has averaged less than 1 percent a year, the slowest rate under any President since Herbert Hoover.
 
Events Beyond Control
 Trying to put a favorable gloss on Mr. Bush's -- and his own -- economic stewardship, Mr. Boskin said that both inflation and interest rates were low and that "we're more internationally competitive than we've been in a long time."
Mr. Boskin blamed the economy's problems not on policy making but on events beyond bureaucratic control: overbuilding of commercial real estate, cuts in the military budget, banks' reluctance to lend, the huge amount of consumer debt developed in the 1980's and Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
President-elect Bill Clinton has not asked him for economic advice, Mr. Boskin said, nor has Mr. Boskin proffered any. But he added that he had told other lawmakers that a fiscal stimulus might be desirable if the economic recovery falters.
"If it looks like the economy is going to badly stall out and head back down to 1 percent or less for a protracted period of time, and unemployment is projected to rise rather than decline, then I think tying tax incentives and cuts in the short term with simultaneously enacted future larger spending cuts would be good," Mr. Boskin said.
In his view, this would provide some quick stimulus and allay the fear of financial markets that politicians were being irresponsible about the deficit.
"I think President Bush has done a remarkable job in difficult times, difficult situations, and history will treat him more kindly than the current discourse is, including on the economy," he said.
Seeking to rebut accusations that the Administration was out of touch on the economy, Mr. Boskin said he was the first head of the Council of Economic Advisers to predict a recession, even before the Commerce Department did. The department forecasts economic activity six to nine months down the road.
In a recent speech, he also said that his office had predicted exactly when the recovery would begin and that it had been more accurate in its forecasts than most private economists.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It doesn't do anybody any good to go back and look at what might have been," said Michael J. Boskin, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); TAX RELIEF (87%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); BOSKIN, MICHAEL J; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



455 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Health Plan Dips Into Unemployment Fund

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
With a Nov. 30 deadline bearing down on them, Republican legislators and Gov. Jim Florio have been unable to agree on how to restore New Jersey's system for financing health care for indigent patients.
If the Legislature and the Governor fail to act this month, hospital care for about 800,000 people will be jeopardized and millions of dollars in bad debts will create huge problems for hospitals across the state, threatening the survival of some. 
 The Republicans have proposed to use some of the state's $3 billion Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund, about $450 million, to finance health care.
"This is what is on the table now," said Senator C. Louis Bassano, a Republican from Union and the sponsor of the bill. "Unless the Governor has a different program, this is the area and the direction that the Legislature has gone in.
 
Florio May Have to Tap Fund
 "It's up to the Governor now. If he does not support the program that we are putting forth, I certainly want to know what his plans are, and we will await his plans."
Mr. Florio, a Democrat, may be forced to accept the use of the unemployment fund, which is based on taxes paid by employers and employees and which finances unemployment compensation, because it is the least onerous of the approaches he and the Legislature have considered in the six months since a Federal judge invalidated the state's 12-year-old health-care system for the poor.
Other proposals have included a payroll tax, an increase in the state income tax, an increase in "sin taxes" on tobacco, beer and liquor or raising the sales tax to 7 percent. Just four months ago it was rolled back to 6 percent.
"The Governor has not spoken out publicly on any plan," said Brenda Bacon, Mr. Florio's chief policy adviser on health care. "What he has been saying for three years is that what we are doing now is horrible."
 
System Thrown Into Chaos
 The existing system, the Uncompensated Care Trust Fund, financed health care for about 800,000 indigent patients through a 19.1 percent surcharge that has been added to the hospital bills of insured patients.
The system was thrown into chaos May 27 when Judge Alfred M. Wolin of Federal District Court in Newark, acting on a lawsuit brought by 14 unions, barred the state from imposing the surcharges on self-insured group health plans, which cover 40 percent of insured patients.
An additional 40 percent of insured patients are covered by Medicare, and they were not required to pay the surcharge. So the remaining 20 percent of insured patients in New Jersey, most of them individual policyholders, will have to pick up the $900 million annual bill for indigent care unless another system is approved.
Judge Wolin gave the Legislature and the Governor until the end of June to work out a new plan. But New Jersey officials bought extra time by appealing to the Federal Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia. The appellate court has not indicated when it will rule, but state officials have committed themselves to replacing the system by Nov. 30.
 
Talks Nearly Break Down
 The rush to do so has created unusual cooperation between the Legislature and the Governor. But a senior state official who has been involved in the negotiations said Mr. Florio balked at the plan to use unemployment funds, and when the Republicans refused to back down it nearly caused the talks to collapse.
"It is the only thing the Republicans have put on the table, the only thing they will discuss," the aide said.
The same official said Mr. Florio had softened his stance a bit and might be willing to support the plan if the Republicans agree to a clause that would increase the payroll tax if the fund shrunk to a certain level.
"We had to make a practical decision," said the aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Either we do nothing and let the state health system slip into chaos or we try to make the best we can of the Republican plan."
Mr. Bassano, who is chairman of the Senate Health Committee, said today that he could introduce his financing bill as early as Monday. But he said that the Republicans would take no action unless Mr. Florio spoke out in favor of the legislation.
Mr. Bassano's bill is part of a package of health and hospital reform measures in the Legislature. Another bill, approved this week by health committees of both the Assembly and the Senate, would require private insurers to enroll all applicants or subsidize any losses suffered by Blue Cross and Blue Shield in providing such policies. This "open enrollment" plan would bar insurance companies from using age, sex or geography in establishing fees.
Under Mr. Bassano's financing proposal, $450 million a year would be diverted from the unemployment fund to finance indigent health care.
Proponents of the plan argue that New Jersey has one of the nation's healthiest unemployment trust funds. On July 1, the beginning of the state's fiscal year, the main reserve stood at $2.4 billion and a second fund had a balance of $400 million.
 
Saving Unemployment Fund
 But critics of Mr. Bassano's bill, including some within the administration, point to a sluggish economy and one of the highest unemployment rates in the nation as reason for worry. "The Governor is quite concerned that we do nothing to violate the solvency of the fund," Ms. Bacon said.
Projections show that the state will take in $1.2 billion in payroll taxes this year, Ms. Bacon said, but will pay out $1.4 billion in unemployment benefits, reducing the unemployment trust fund by $200 million.
Even with serious reservations about the Bassano plan, Mr. Florio might be locked into accepting it. Facing re-election next year, Mr. Florio may be extremely reluctant to be seen as advocating a tax increase.
The Governor incensed voters during his first year in office by pushing through a record $2.8 billion tax increase. The Republicans used it as a club in the 1991 elections, in which they won majorities in both houses of the Legislature.
 
Tax Rise Seen as Inevitable
 But avoiding taxes may not be easy. "No matter what three letters you come up with, the solution is going to spell tax," said Ronald Czajkowski, a spokesman for the New Jersey Hospital Association, which has lobbied for restoring the 7 percent sales tax. "It's just a matter of what's going to be most politically palatable.
"We are not proposing a new tax. What we are doing is take a regressive 19 percent tax, the surcharge on sick people, and coming up with a new tax basis."
But the Assembly Speaker, Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, one of the leaders of the Republican fight nine months ago to roll the sales tax back to 6 percent, called an increase "the area of last resort."
"I have always said I would find it difficult in my caucus to get 41 votes," Mr. Haytaian said, "and I'm sure the Democrats would find it difficult to give any votes for a tax increase."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; HEALTH INSURANCE; HOSPITALS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SELF INSURANCE (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); SALES TAX (71%); EXCISE TAX (71%); APPROVALS (70%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEDICARE (69%); JUDGES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); LITIGATION (64%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) JIM FLORIO (93%); C LOUIS BASSANO (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



456 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: European Community Finds Its Unity Plans Under Threat

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Nov. 13

 BODY:
A month before a summit meeting of the European Community that is intended to set the stage for ambitious expansion, the goal of economic and political unity among the existing 12 members seems farther away than it was a year ago.
Weaknesses of political leadership in France, Britain and Germany, and economic problems in all the major countries, are to blame for the malaise, in the view of many experts. 
 German business leaders have been openly denouncing French "chauvinism" for allegedly bringing Europe to the brink of a trade war with the United States, and German officials have been urging their counterparts in Paris to give in before the dispute plunges the world into depression.
Germany and France were united in expressing dismay at the surprise decision last week by the British Prime Minister, John Major, to put off a parliamentary vote on ratification of the treaty on European political and monetary union until after Denmark has had a second referendum on the accord. Danish voters rejected it narrowly last June, and their Government has demanded modifications before it submits the treaty to another popular vote next year.
A summit meeting planned in Edinburgh on Dec. 11 and 12 is expected to formally back reassurances by all the community leaders that the treaty does not mean that member countries will lose their sovereign national identities in a federal European melting pot. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany consulted with Mr. Major outside Oxford on Wednesday to prepare for that meeting, as well as to talk about the prospects of breaking the American-European impasse over trade.
 
Trade Prospects Improve
 These prospects have improved in the last few days, after public pressure by the Germans on the French to resume talks next week. The United States has threatened $300 million worth of trade sanctions on European exports if no compromise is reached.
The fate of the European union treaty, signed at Maastricht, the Netherlands, last December, is less clear. It was to go into effect on Jan. 1, but it cannot until all 12 nations have ratified it. The British and Danish delays are therefore expected to mean that negotiations on admitting Austria, Sweden and Finland, which have already applied to join the community, cannot begin as planned in January.
Switzerland may soon decide to apply, and Norway is expected to after a convention of its governing Labor Party decided narrowly in favor over the weekend. Poland, Hungary and both parts of Czechoslovakia would also like to begin preliminary negotiations on joining.
Until Britain's economic problems dragged him into conflict with his European Community partners, Mr. Major had said expansion would be one of the major goals of Britain's six-month community presidency, which expires at the end of the year.
 
Major Survives Narrowly
 But an anti-European rebellion in his Conservative Party nearly led to the Government's defeat in a preliminary parliamentary vote on the treaty last week. Mr. Major prevailed by a three-vote majority, but only by the grace of the opposition Liberal Democrats.
Over the weekend, President Francois Mitterrand of France said it was "unacceptable" for Britain to delay ratification, and on Tuesday Mr. Major said in Parliament that the action was none of Mr. Mitterrand's business. French officials have suggested that Mr. Major had been forced by domestic opposition to the treaty to hide behind the skirts of the Danes.
After consulting the main opposition parties last week, the Danish Prime Minister, Poul Schluter, said an agreement would have to leave Denmark out of any common European defense policy as well as a single currency, which now seems less likely than ever to come into effect by the end of the decade, as foreseen in the treaty. Denmark also wanted nothing to do with "supranational police cooperation," a euphemism for letting the German police pursue suspects across the border.
Initial reactions from the French and even some Germans indicated that these demands were unacceptable. "We haven't yet made up our minds," the German Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, said the other day.
 
Major Is Hopeful
 Mr. Major, reeling from a stunning series of domestic political gaffes and economic setbacks, said after his talks with Mr. Kohl on Wednesday that they had agreed that a settlement on the trade negotiations was within reach.
"I think that is vital," the Prime Minister said. "What the world economic situation calls for at present is calm discussion and not saber-rattling."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); FINLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); POLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); FINLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); POLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); AUSTRIA (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TRENDS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (68%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (54%); HELMUT KOHL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



457 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Delors Has Become the Odd Man Out in Europe

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Nov. 10

 BODY:
It has been a very bad year for Jacques Delors, the president of the European Commission, the executive body of the European Community. Lauded until recently as the man who galvanized Europe and put flesh on the frail outline of European integration, he has now become the squinting symbol of Europe's disarray, a focus of criticism, insult and ridicule.
"Delors equals chauvinism, protectionism and selfishness," Michael Fuchs, the president of the German Foreign Trade association, proclaimed this week. "We don't need another Sun King in Brussels. Once in Paris was enough." 
 Mr. Fuchs, angered by what he sees as Mr. Delors's role in blocking a world trade deal with the United States, was comparing the 67-year-old former Finance Minister of France to the vainglorious monarch Louis XIV (who actually ruled from Versailles).
 
 
Series of Attacks
 The unlikely comparison -- Mr. Delors is a Roman Catholic Socialist with a strong social conscience who lives modestly in a Brussels apartment -- was only the latest in a series of sharp attacks on the commission president. These have recently cast Mr. Delors in the roles of master bureaucrat enmeshing Europeans in a web of regulations, hapless chief executive disavowed by his senior colleagues and devious champion of France masquerading as a disinterested "Mr. Europe."
In the space of a few months, Europe's hero of recent years has thus been undone. He is now a much-questioned figure, just as his major achievement -- the Continent's frontierless market -- is about to come into effect in January. Lingering recession, the Danish rejection of the Maastricht treaty of European unity, and the monetary chaos of September that led Italy and Britain to withdraw their currencies from the Exchange Rate Mechanism of the European monetary system have all undermined Mr. Delors.
"In part, he is just the most convenient scapegoat for Europe's current problems," Nicolaas Wegter, a community spokesman, said.
 
 
Danger for Europe

But as Mr. Delors prepares to embark next year on a final two-year term as commission president, the danger is that Europe could find itself with a lame-duck leadership at a time of critical change and that Mr. Delors will be lastingly diminished by recent setbacks and insinuations.
Mr. Delors declined to comment. But his spokesman, Bruno Dethomas, rejected the criticism. "Mr. Delors is not divided between France and Europe; he always has the interests of the European Community at heart," he said. "Not for one second has he thought about resigning because his conduct has been irreproachable."
There are several reasons for the abrupt reversal of Mr. Delors's fortunes after years in which his dynamic leadership of European integration led to frequent comparisons between him and the chief instigator of the idea of the European Community, Jean Monnet of France.
As a Frenchman -- and one with thinly disguised ambitions to succeed President Francois Mitterrand when his term ends in 1995 -- Mr. Delors's role in the current trade talks held under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade has been widely questioned. Some believe he has the interests of the politically powerful French farmers closer to his heart than he should.
These insinuations reached a crucial point recently when the community's Agriculture Commissioner, Ray MacSharry of Ireland, said he was dropping out of the GATT negotiations because Mr. Delors had undermined him. His decision came after another Commissioner, Frans Andriessen of the Netherlands, had openly criticized Mr. Delors's approach to the GATT talks.
Such squabbling among commissioners amounted to an extraordinary event in Brussels, and Mr. Delors has clearly been striving to paper over the differences. He coaxed Mr. MacSharry back to the negotiating team, and has suddenly expressed a new enthusiasm for, and optimism over, the GATT talks.
Still, it remains unclear whether he has regained the respect of the college of 17 commissioners he is supposed to direct until the end of 1994.
 
 
'Tenacious and Determined'
 "He is in the midst of a very difficult moment -- with the United States and with his European Community partners," Francois Hollande, a French Socialist who is close to Mr. Delors, said. "But if he's clearly preoccupied, he is also tenacious and determined."
Tenacity has indeed characterized Mr. Delors's work. As French Finance Minister in 1981, he pushed through a series of nationalizations of industry requested by President Mitterrand. When they proved disastrous, he persuaded the President to reverse course and left a relatively strong economy when he moved to Brussels in 1985.
Arriving at the commission, he refused to be daunted by inertia and setbacks, giving extraordinary new momentum to the European idea by setting the 1992 target of a "Europe without frontiers."
It seems clear, however, that Mr. Delors is in the midst of a period of uncharacteristic uncertainty. A passionate believer in the European idea, he has abruptly had to face the fact this year that a federal Europe with a single currency is not an idea that galvanizes many people at a time when European integration seems only to bring recession.
Dedicated to the notion that Europe's brand of socialism affords the best balance between a dynamic market and a social safety net, he has to come to terms this year with the rise of racist and far-right movements throughout Europe.
All this has taken a toll. He has been thin-skinned on several recent occasions, dismissing opponents of the Maastricht treaty in France as "having no place in a sophisticated democratic society" and attacking those who now contend that a bureaucracy in Brussels is about to take over Europe.
Moreover, he clearly has half an eye on France. Last month he founded a group within the Socialist Party knows as Temoin (witness), with a view to developing ideas on the renewal of the party. This event was described by the leading newspaper Le Monde as "the return of the Delors satellite from its European orbit to the French political stratosphere."
Mr. Hollande, who heads Temoin, said: "Mr. Delors does not exclude any possibility, and many people, including myself, hope this group will have an active political role supporting him. Obviously, with his Europeans mandate ending in 1994, he is beginning to apply himself more to French politics."
Whether Europe holds Mr. Delors's attention, and whether he can apply leadership, will probably be decided in the next six months. If the Maastricht treaty is ratified, the GATT impasse resolved and monetary stability recovered, analysts believe Mr. Delors will once more push vigorously for the federal Europe of which he dreams.
But if Denmark or Britain reject Maastricht, and other problems fester, he may feel his contribution to Europe has been made.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Delors, president of the European Commission, speaking with Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, the Danish Foreign Minister, before a meeting of European foreign ministers in Brussels earlier this week. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); GERMANY (92%); DENMARK (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); GERMANY (92%); DENMARK (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (54%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%); EXCHANGE RATES (62%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: DELORS, JACQUES; COHEN, ROGER JACQUES LUCIEN JEAN DELORS (94%); MICHAEL J FUCHS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



458 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Earnings Are Down at Honda and Mazda

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 13

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company and the Mazda Motor Corporation today joined the lengthening line of Japanese car makers reporting sharply lower profits.
Both said weak demand and the strong yen took big bites out of profits in the six months through the end of September. The fiscal year's second half does not look any better.
"The recovery in domestic sales will be slow and difficult, and the situation in the United States is similar," a senior Honda official said. "The upturn in new car sales may not come until the second half of next year."
Honda's parent-company net profit slumped 7 percent to 15.17 billion yen, or $123 million, from the comparable period a year earlier. Consolidated, or group, net -- which includes results from all the company's holdings -- plunged 39 percent, to 26.36 billion yen, or $214 million.
But those results were far better than the 85 percent dive in Mazda's parent net profit to 621 million yen, or $5.04 million.
Still, Honda and Mazda have avoided the fate of the Nissan Motor Company and Fuji Heavy Industries, maker of Subaru cars, both of which reported six-month net losses this month.
The Mitsubishi Motors Corporation also announced lower six-month profits this month.
Japan's once unbeatable auto makers have struggled as sales fell along with the economy. Vehicle demand fell 7.3 percent in the six months through September, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said recently.
Honda and Mazda have not escaped, with domestic factory sales of cars slipping 13 and 10 percent, respectively.
The yen's advance against the dollar also weighed them down. Honda expected an exchange rate of 130 yen to the dollar in the half just ended. The rate turned out to be 126.65 yen. Each 1 yen difference shifts group results by about 3 billion yen, or $24.3 million, a Honda official said, adding that the auto maker was expecting a rate of 125 yen in the current fiscal half.
Both companies have been struggling to streamline production and cut costs.
Mazda decided last month to scrap plans for a second sales network in the United States to market luxury cars and for two new luxury sedans aimed at the American market. It also decided to pull out of sports car races, including the Le Mans 24-hour endurance race in France.
Honda quit Formula One motor racing, in which its engines have been a dominant force for a decade, although it insisted the move was unrelated to the business slump.
One bright spot for Honda was motorcycles, whose combined domestic and export sales edged up 7 percent. Honda is the world's top maker of motorcycles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 7201 (TSE) (68%); 7211 (TSE) (67%); 7270 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO; MAZDA MOTOR CORP MAZDA MOTOR CORP (94%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (68%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (67%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (55%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO; MAZDA MOTOR CORP AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (54%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEDANS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); SALES FORCE (71%); AUTO RACING (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); FORMULA ONE RACING (58%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



459 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Struggle to Get Biggest Corn Crop In

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO. Nov. 13

 BODY:
From Nebraska to Ohio, farmers are battling drenching rains, high winds, early snowstorms and the effects of harvesting late in the season to bring in their largest corn crop in history.
"I've only had four days in the field this month," said Bob Johnson this morning after surveying the third blanket of snow his family's farm near De Kalb, Ill., has received in the last month. 
When snow has not stilled his combines, mud has.
To Mr. Johnson's west, at least some part of Iowa has received snow or rain every day since Oct. 31. Much of Ohio was hit by rains and winds last night, which will bring new delays.
Despite the obstacles and the fact that only 50 percent of the crop is in, farmers and the businesses that depend on them are predicting that almost all of the corn will eventually be gathered. The prospects of a bumper crop have already driven prices down to their lowest point since the mid-80's. Corn, much of which is used as animal feed, is the nation's single largest crop.
The record harvest should lead to plentiful and inexpensive supplies of meat through next year. Lower prices should also expand American exports and benefit processing firms that convert corn into everything from ethanol fuel to the raw materials for breakfast cereals, snacks, beer and soft drinks. And although converted corn is a small part of the final cost of such consumer products, economists say that the bountiful harvest should help hold down the prices of these goods as well.
But the huge corn crop, occurring in a year when farmers have also produced record yields per acre in spring wheat, sorghum, barley, oats and soybeans, may end up costing the Government hundreds of millions of dollars more than it had projected in farm subsidies.
The bounty sends a strong reminder to European trade negotiators that the United States is the world's low-cost producer of agricultural goods and may nudge them toward a compromise on the issue of subsidies, which has stalled efforts to reach a new international free trade agreement.
This year's large American harvest may lead as well to pressure for a re-examination of United States domestic policies. The policies are governed by a law that runs through 1995. "We can't wait until then to reopen it," referring to the law, said Representative Dan Glickman, the Kansas Democrat who heads the House Subcommittee on Wheat, Soybeans and Feed Grain. "I think we are headed into a new cycle of bumper crops that will require much more flexibility than we have now if we are going to avoid big deficiency payments."
The current corn policies require farmers to set aside a portion of their land to qualify for a subsidy that protects them against low prices when there are oversupplies. Farmers argue that keeping the subsidies but eliminating the set-asides would stimulate the entire agribusiness sector and increase pressure on higher-cost producers oversees.
 
Strange Weather Year
 The size of the corn crop reflects improvement in the plants themselves through selective breeding and freakish weather. Farmers say they cannot recall another year in which a dry spring, relieved just in time by rainfall, was then followed by such a cool and rainy July and August. This lead to a huge but late-maturing crop.
"You have to expect bad weather harvesting this late," said Mr. Johnson, whose family raises corn, soybeans and pigs. "Harvesting in November is like what a commuter faces driving to work through the first snowstorm of the year. You get it done but it's more dangerous because no one's really prepared and you end up grumpy and less productive."
Much of the resulting crop tended to produce somewhat lower-quality corn ears as measured by weight, but on the other hand the rains washed the corn borers away before they could cause internal damage. The rains resumed in late October.
Keith Bowden, a farmer in Williams, Iowa, said that he finished Saturday, later than normal. "Anything after the first of November makes me nervous, but I tend to be aggressive about this," he said. "I have neighbors who are still out there although this area is ahead of many others." Most farmers grow several different crops and the timing of their corn harvest can vary.
Mr. Bowden said his farm, about an hour north of Des Moines, had been in a pocket of relatively good weather compared with much of the state.
 
Crop Estimates Rise
 Each month since August, the Department of Agriculture and private analysts have been raising their crop estimates. This Tuesday's 3.3 billion bushel estimate from the department was an unusually sharp increase so late in the season. It briefly sent corn future prices on the Chicago Board of Trade Wednesday to a new low for the December contract of just over $2.04 a bushel.
The record output has had much less impact on prices than it would have in the mid-1980's because stockpiles are much lower and demand for corn and other grains has been rising. The Agriculture Department expects cattle, poultry and hog growers, who consume roughly two-thirds of the crop, to use 6 percent more corn as feed this year. Other domestic corn purchasers are projected to use almost 4 percent more. And exports are expected to edge up by 1 percent.
Low feed-corn prices not only reduce the costs of fattening livestock currently being prepared for slaughter but also encourage farmers to expand their herds in anticipation of growing consumer demand. In particular, low prices are seen as an incentive for countries like Japan to develop a taste for American meat. That, according to farmers, is the best way to increase demand for their crops and, eventually, raise the prices they receive.
"We have a saying there's no cure for low prices like low prices," Mr. Johnson said.
Outside of the feed-grain sector, lower corn prices have a minimal effect on consumer prices. Analysts say that corn, for example, accounts for less than 6 percent of the cost of a corn-based breakfast cereal.
"A company like Kellogg is much more impacted by advertising rates on Madison Avenue than corn prices on the farm," said John McMillin, an agriculture and food analyst for Prudential Bache Securities in New York..
Government price supports should help most corn farmers prosper despite lower market prices this year. About 75 percent of all corn farmers participate in the support program, which is linked to historic yields per acre. The record yields actually achieved may reduce the percentage of total production covered to as little as 60 percent in some areas, according to the National Farmers Organization.
The support level has not been fixed yet. The payment is a complex calculation based on the difference between the $2.75-a-bushel target price and the average market price in the five months from Sept. 1.
 
U.S. Bill Could Rise
 Agricultural economists are currently estimating that the support subsidy will end up between 55 cents and 75 cents a bushel. At the lower end of that range, the Government's projected $4.2 billion expenditure on corn subsidies in the budget running through next Sept. 30 might not be far off. At the high end, the Government's bill could rise by hundreds of millions of dollars.
Although individual farmers who had low production because of hailstorms or other local problems face financial ruin, farm incomes in general should be up, according to regional bank economists.
The farmers assured of doing better than average are those who used futures contracts or similar arrangements to lock in the price for a large percentage of their crops earlier this year. But the vast majority of farmers have been reluctant to use such techniques. They will have to hope that prices rise significantly next year to make the most of the huge corn crop.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I've only had four days in the field this month," said Bob Johnson yesterday, after surveying the third blanket of snow his family's corn farm near De Kalb, Ill., has received in the last month. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Silos Full of Corn" -- shows amount of corn grown in the United States. (Source: Agriculture Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUCH OF OHIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUCH OF OHIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GRAIN; CORN; WEATHER CORN FARMING (90%); WEATHER (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); BIOFUELS (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (72%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); ALCOHOLS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ETHANOL (50%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



460 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Salvation Army Learns Some Past Donors Are Needy Themselves

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
The Salvation Army, for the first time in memory, faces the holiday season unsure that it will have money to send out vans with hot meals to feed New York City's street people through the winter.
Local army groups in some areas, including New York, fear that they may not be able to raise nearly as much as the record $649 million raised by the army's 40 divisions across the country last year -- even as they confront more demands for help, including requests from people who have given money in the past. 
 The army's concerns this year go beyond the lingering economic slump. It made special appeals after natural disasters earlier this year, and it fears that people may not want to give again so soon. And like many other charities, it fears that there may be a chill on giving this year following disclosures about extravagant spending by the president of the United Way and his $465,000 salary.
"The last thing the army wants to do is cut services like feeding a thousand people a day in places such as the Bowery and the South Bronx," said Lieut. Col. Raymond L. Wood, divisional commander for the Greater New York area.
 
Letters of Regret
 The army recently sent out its seasonal appeal to past contributors, which typically brings in checks, money orders, cash and an occasional stock certificate. This year the return mail is notable for its letters of regret from loyal supporters.
A son writes for his parents, who were significant contributors, saying both are now jobless and ailing and asks, "What can you do for them?" Another writer said he was stopping his gifts because his union pension was cut in half. Another scribbled: "ill, old, alone and poor."
While the army does not discount the possibility that holiday spirit will still spur a wave of donations, it is concerned that there is a limit to what people can give.
Earlier this year, the army made a nationwide appeal for assistance for Florida residents who lost homes and businesses because of Hurricane Andrew in late August. New Yorkers, many with family or friends in the disaster area, contributed $600,000 for emergency relief.
But the help in September may create a shortage for local operations in November and December, Colonel Wood said. He estimated that collections for the year were trailing contributions at this time a year ago by at least $100,000. The army in San Francisco has a similar squeeze: donors there gave $382,000 after the California wildfires, and now the army faces soaring local needs.
 
Salaries Are Frozen
 In New York City the army is a partner in the local United Way campaign and will receive $2.7 million, a $200,000 cutback because of the shortfall in United Way fund raising in 1991. In October the New York organization froze salaries, which are already low when compared with other charitable groups. For instance, Colonel Wood and his wife, who is also an officer, receive $34,000 annually, plus a modest apartment in a building for the aged that is run by the army.
The army has ranked for decades among the 10 most successful charitable fund raisers. Nationally it was topped in 1991 only by the United Jewish Appeal, which ran a vigorous special campaign to assist emigrating Soviet Jews, according to the Chronicle on Philanthropy.
The Salvation Army began in 1865 in London and expanded to the United States in 1880. It is led here by 3,500 officers, all ministers and most from families with generations of involvement. Another 445,000 are church members, or Salvationists. The army also has 1.2 million volunteers of all faiths, and these ranks are slowly but perceptibly growing.
"There is a great American love affair with the Salvation Army," said Commissioner James Osborne, national commander of the army in the United States. "Americans do not know all the army is doing, they may not understand all about the army, but they believe whatever we're doing is to the good."
And if the mix of religious fervor, the uniforms, the marching bands and the zeal to rescue the downtrodden sometimes inspires satiric wit, the army's leaders seem unperturbed. "We're not sourpusses," the Commissioner said. "We should be able to laugh at ourselves a little."
 
Help From 'Guys and Dolls'
 The army will celebrate the opening of its Christmas fund raising on Nov. 24 in Bryant Park with musical help from the cast of "Guys and Dolls," the Broadway musical based on Damon Runyan's story about streetwise gamblers and a soul-saving missionary in Times Square.
Anticipating that fund raising will be tougher this year, some of the army's red kettles were put in place before the campaign's official start.
Last year collections from the kettles and direct-mail campaign netted the New York organization $4.4 million, helping to provide 500,000 meals and beds for 2,200 people each night in a Salvation Army shelter or residence, Colonel Wood said. The army also gives rent money to families on the verge of becoming homeless, a program that is now threatened.
The army is also one of New York City's major providers of foster care and day care for children, working under contract with the city. It also runs youth-training programs, group homes for teen-agers and the mentally retarded, residences for the elderly and projects with prison and parole agencies. The army's alcohol and drug rehabilitation programs are supported partly by selling recycled furniture and household items in thrift shops run by the army.
The army has already adopted austerity measures at the 34 community centers that it maintains in the New York area, which includes the five boroughs, Westchester County and part of the Hudson Valley.
 
Small and Symbolic
 At the army's largest center in the New York area, in Brownsville, Brooklyn, Capt. Raphael Jackson said he had eliminated bus trips for children and deliberately not filled staff positions -- turnover is high because army salaries are low. Some savings are small and symbolic: there will be no token gifts like chocolates for the staff at Christmas.
On Sundays Captain Jackson buckles on a 30-pound bass drum and walks a six-block circuit, picking up youngsters who follow him back to the center for Sunday school and luncheon. A few hours later the procession is reversed and he delivers them home, through streets where drugs are traded brazenly and violence is commonplace.
"On any day we see 500 children and they have unbelievable problems but also great potential, which will be used for good or bad," Captain Jackson said. "Our job is to guide them toward the good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Capt. Raphael Jackson of the Salvation Army playing the drum, leading children through Brownsville, Brooklyn, to the Salvation Army building for Bible study classes, singing and storytelling. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SALVATION ARMY UNITED WAY (62%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALVATION ARMY THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); HURRICANES (69%); WRITERS (64%); ARMIES (58%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



461 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Bond Prices Decline on Retail Gains

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Bond prices fell yesterday after the Government released some surprising inflation news and a separate report on retail sales that indicated the economy was gaining strength.
The new 30-year Treasury bond sold in Thursday's auction fell 5/32 percentage point. Its yield was 7.57 percent, compared with 7.59 percent Thursday. 
 Traders said short-term Treasury bills were especially depressed by the Commerce Department's report that retail sales jumped nine-tenths of 1 percent in October, the steepest rise in three months. The bills also fell briefly in reaction to Labor Department data showing a fourth-tenths of 1 percent jump in consumer prices in October.
"The short end of the market got clobbered today," Susan Talbot, senior money market analyst at Technical Data in Boston, said.
 
 
Secondary Market
 In the secondary market for Treasury securities, short-term maturities fell between 9/32 point and 13/32 point, and intermediate maturities declined 17/32 point to 3/8 point, the Telerate Inc. financial information service reported.
The movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value.
The economic reports gave support to speculation that the Federal Reserve would not ease interest rates further, analysts said.
The retail sales figure indicated consumer buying was picking up speed. Since consumer expenditures account for two-thirds of economic activity, that augurs well for the recovery.
Some traders dismissed the consumer price number as little more than a statistical blip, even though higher inflation generally erodes the value of bonds.
"The inflation report was not as good as expected but it was not bad enough to send the market down strongly," Michael Moran, chief economist with Daiwa Securities America Inc. in New York, said.
Economists said the inflation gain was caused by factors such as a record jump in airline fares.
Many traders were still focused on the Treasury's quarterly refunding auction, which concluded Thursday with a sale of $10.25 billion in new 30-year bonds.
Demand was brisk at that auction, meaning the Government was able to pay lower interest rates, keeping the cost of servicing the federal deficit down. The Lehman Brothers daily Treasury bond index, which measures price movements on all outstanding Treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, was quoted at 1,247.9, off 4.46.
 
 
3-Month Bills
 Yields on three-month Treasury bills rose to 3.14 percent as the discount rose two basis points, to 3.08 percent. Yields on six-month bills rose to 3.43 percent as the discount rose 7 basis points, to 3.34 percent. Yields on one-year bills rose to 3.65 percent as the discount rose 10 basis points, to 3.52 percent. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
The Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, fell to 213/16 percent, from 3 percent late Thursday.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 9613/32 , up 1/16 point. The average yield to maturity was 6.46 percent, unchanged from late Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (69%); TRI (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (69%); DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (65%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INFLATION (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); INTEREST RATES (65%); AIR FARES (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: BOND BUYER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



462 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Rise Brisk 21.6%

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Sales of domestically built vehicles rose 21.6 percent in early November, with light trucks accounting for most of the increase.
The results follow on the heels of higher retail spending in October, suggesting that consumers may be gaining confidence to commit to bigger-ticket items. 
 A recovery in sales of light trucks typically precedes an increase in car sales because businesses are not able to postpone replacing a truck as long as some consumers can postpone a car purchase.
 
 
'Steady Recovery'
 Car sales rose 7.9 percent, to 126,127, while light trucks, which include mini-vans, sport-utility vehicles and pickups, advanced 44.6 percent, to 99,881, for the Nov. 1-10 period. The seasonally annual rate for cars was 5.6 million, down from 6.6 million in late October and 5.7 million for the corresponding period last year. Total vehicle sales were 226,008.
"It was a puny selling rate for domestic cars in early November, but I don't believe the overall industry is that weak," Tom Webb, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, said.
David Healy, automotive analyst for S. G. Warburg & Company, said, "We've got a steady recovery."
A spot check of car dealers found them reporting that sales had strengthened from last month and from a year earlier. Gary Martin, vice president of Leo Martin Chevrolet-Oldsmobile in Freeport, Tex., said: "We're seeing more people recognizing the value of domestic cars over imports. We're anticipating a very, very good year."
 
Some Caution Expressed
 But Michael Gorman, general sales manager of Nordic Ford-Toyota in South Burlington, Vt., said: "I sense there's still not a strong feeling of consumer confidence. We anticipated greater sales increases after the election. Now we sense people are waiting to see what President-elect Clinton does in his first 100 days."
The General Motors Corporation reported a 4.3 percent drop in car sales to 54,106, but a 32.9 percent increase in light trucks to 35,323. G.M.'s Oldsmobile division, which had been performing abysmally, suffered a 20 percent drop in sales.
The Ford Motor Company posted sales increases of 20.5 percent for cars, to 39,133, and 41.6 percent for light trucks, to 34,607.
Ward's Automotive Reports estimated that the Chrysler Corporation's car sales rose 18.9 percent, to 14,450, and light-truck sales rose 62.4 percent, to 25,500. Chrysler reports vehicle sales on a monthly basis.
The Honda Motor Company, whose sales had been declining, reported a 10.2 percent increase in sales of domestically built cars, to 7,694.
The Toyota Motor Corporation's sales of domestic cars fell 3.7 percent, to 4,535.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); HMC (NYSE) (81%); 7267 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (81%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); S G WARBURG & CO LTD (68%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (64%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MINIVANS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



463 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Jails Switch May Prove Problematic

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

 BODY:
New York City said yesterday that it would stop using two prisons near the Canadian border by the end of the year, a move that officials said would save the city $51 million a year but would create a budget headache for the state.
The decision caps an effort by the city to turn over the prisons to the state and court efforts to compel the state to expedite inmates' transfers from city to state prisons. At issue is a dispute involving the city, the state and a prisoners' rights group over who has to pay for running the two upstate prisons, prison jobs upstate and finding room for inmates who should be in state custody. 
 A spokesman for the State Correctional Services Department, James B. Flateau, said the state would take over the prisons, at Ogdensburg and Cape Vincent, as soon as they were vacated and would use Ogdensburg to comply with a court order to clear up a chronic backlog of inmates held in city jails.
To relieve overcrowding in city jails, the city bought the prisons from the state for $113 million in 1988. Under the agreement the city paid the state to staff and operate the prisons, which this year will cost at least $51 million.
 
Changes in Overcrowding
 In the last two years overcrowding in the city prisons eased while state prisons became severely overcrowded. The drop in the city's inmate population prompted the city in March to notify the state that it intended to discontinue using the prisons, 300 miles from the city.
The medium-security prisons can hold a total of 1,500 inmates, and city officials proposed that the state use the buildings to reduce the backlog of inmates, called "state readies," who are scheduled to be moved from city jails to state custody. But state officials said there were contractual questions over the prison operating costs, including 809 employees of the Correctional Services Department.
Those jobs are considered essential to the local economies, and layoffs would almost certainly ignite political outcries. Mr. Flateau said the state would retain all the employees.
Nestled in bucolic regions near the St. Lawrence River, the two prisons acquired a reputation among inmates as "country club" institutions, especially compared with the grim landscape of Rikers Island. To transport inmates to and from the prisons the city spent $2 million a year for charter flights.
The Deputy Mayor for Public Safety, Fritz W. Alexander 2d, said yesterday that the city told state officials on Thursday that all inmates from Ogdensburg would be transferred to prisons in the city by the end of the month. He said all city inmates would leave Cape Vincent next month.
The two prisons had a combined inmate population yesterday of 870, according to the City Correction Department. Over all, city prisons yesterday held 20,190 inmates, 94 percent of the capacity of 21,369. Correction Commissioner Catherine M. Abate said she anticipated no difficulties in absorbing the transfers.
The state prison census yesterday was 62,154, or 128 percent of the intended capacity of 48,738.
 
Questions About Expenses
 State Criminal Justice Director Richard H. Girgenti noted that the city had a 10-year contract to pay for the two prisons. "There are questions that have to be negotiated as to whether the city gave us adequate notification and who pays for operational expenses," he said.
On the issue of removing "state ready" prisoners from city jails, state officials acknowledged that they had been unable to comply with a court settlement. The settlement, reached in August with the Legal Aid Society, required the state by Oct. 1 to transfer within 10 days all prisoners classifed as "state readies." Such inmates are mainly criminals sentenced on felony convictions and parole violaters.
The state is required to hold inmates serving sentences of a year or more. Justice Joan B. Lobis of State Supreme Court in Manhattan yesterday ordered Correctional Services Commissioner Thomas A. Coughlin 3d to end the backlog by Dec. 14. The City Correction Department said it had 825 "state ready" inmates awaiting transfers yesterday.
Mr. Flateau said the backlog had developed because of a surge in prisoners and the inability of the agency to expand its work-release program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OGDENSBURG CORRECTIONAL FACILITY (NYS); CAPE VINCENT CORRECTIONAL FACILITY (NYS) STATE CORRECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: OGDENSBURG CORRECTIONAL FACILITY (NYS); CAPE VINCENT CORRECTIONAL FACILITY (NYS) STATE CORRECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS PRISONS (93%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN JAMES B FLATEAU (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



464 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Home Resale Prices Up 1.6%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
The weak economy continued to take its toll on home values during the third quarter, depressing prices in California and parts of the Northeast and curbing them in many other areas, a real estate trade group reported today.
The National Association of Realtors said the national median price of a previously owned single-family home edged up 1.6 percent, to $103,500, from the quarter a year earlier. The median means half the homes cost more and half cost less. 
 It was the smallest increase in home prices since they advanced 1.2 percent in the first quarter of 1991. Prices, which had jumped 7.5 percent from January through March, slowed to a 2.3 percent gain during the next three months.
Sales of existing homes actually fell during the third quarter, down 5 percent, to a 3.35 million seasonally adjusted annual rate, despite the lowest mortgage rates in nearly two decades. The realtors said sales rose only in the Midwest.
"Over the past quarter, the lower-priced segment of the market has continued to draw the most buyers," said Dorcas T. Helfant, the association president, explaining that "heavy demand has driven up prices." But she added that people in the upper end had been more apt to hold back until they received some positive news about the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



465 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Climbed 0.4% Last Month

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose a moderate four-tenths of 1 percent in October, the Government said today, in a report suggesting that some inflationary pressures still exist despite the sluggish economy.
The increase was the largest since a rise of five-tenths of 1 percent in March.
The October rise in the Consumer Price Index, adjusted for seasonal factors, reflected increases in housing, transportation and energy. The September index had risen two-tenths of 1 percent.
 
Core Rate Up 0.5%
 With the erratic food and energy sectors removed -- leaving the so-called core rate -- consumer prices were up five-tenths of 1 percent in October after rising two-tenths of 1 percent in September, the Labor Department said.
The pace of inflation in October was generally more vigorous than Wall Street had expected, but the rise did not appear strong enough to hamper President-elect Bill Clinton's plans to take steps to stimulate the economy.
Some people on Wall Street have been concerned that the new Administration might go too far, overstimulating the economy and setting the stage for higher inflation.
Such concern is affecting the bond market, where long-term interest rates have increased in recent weeks despite quiet inflation and low short-term rates.
Earlier this week, the Labor Department reported that prices received by American producers rose only one-tenth of 1 percent in October, with the core rate showing a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent.
Analysts say the weak increase at the wholesale level in October should eventually be reflected at retail outlets.
But October's figures on consumer prices were a different matter.
 Food and beverage prices rose only one-tenth of 1 percent, after going up by four-tenths in September. But housing jumped four-tenths last month, compared with a rise of one-tenth in September.
Apparel and upkeep rose three-tenths of 1 percent, compared with two-tenths in September. Transportation was up six-tenths after being unchanged in September. The surge in the transportation index mainly reflected a jump of 7.9 percent in airline fares.
Gasoline prices rose six-tenths of 1 percent; they had dropped seven-tenths in September.
Energy costs increased five-tenths of 1 percent, after being unchanged in September. Medical care was up six-tenths.
The Labor Department also reported today that workers' earnings, after adjusting for inflation and seasonal factors, rose four-tenths of 1 percent in October after falling 1.4 percent in September.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Prices" shows percent change in consumer prices from 11/91 to 10/92 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD PRICES (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); RETAILERS (74%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); AIR FARES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



466 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Coffee Prices Surge Again; Fear of Tight Supply Grows

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Coffee futures prices surged yesterday to a seven-month high on New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange as worries about tightening supplies from South America intensified.
Coffee for December delivery rose 1.95 cents, to 69.2 cents a pound, the highest settlement of a near-term coffee contract since April 9. 
 It was the fourth straight daily advance for coffee, which has risen from recent 17-year lows in response to shrinking Brazilian exports and harvest forecasts, and a threat of terrorist-related supply disruptions in Colombia.
Another supportive factor yesterday was talk that Colombia, the second-largest coffee producer after Brazil, plans to announce next week that its new crop will be two million bags smaller than expected because of insect infestation.
Arthur Stevenson, analyst with Prudential Securities, said Colombia's political instability was at least as important a factor as the possibility of a smaller crop. He said a slowdown by dock workers at Santos, Brazil's main coffee port, had cut further into coffee exports that were already running 40 percent behind a year ago.
The new Brazilian crop is expected to total 18 million to 20 million bags compared with 24 million to 26 million last year.
Sandra Kaul, an analyst at Shearson, said coffee prices were likely to rise further.
Oil futures finished lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange, extending a long-term slide associated with rising production and the sluggish global economy. Crude bounced off the key $20-a-barrel mark early in the session.
Light sweet crude oil for December delivery ended 13 cents lower at $20.08 a barrel; December heating oil fell 0.33 cent, to 57.7 cents a gallon; December unleaded gasoline dropped 0.33 cent, to 53.61 cents a gallon; December natural gas fell 2 cents, to $2.423 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Grain and soybean futures prices rose, supported by fresh export demand for United States wheat and talk of quality problems with Canadian oats. The strength in the wheat and oat markets spread to the corn and soybean pits, analysts said.
Wheat for December delivery rose 5 cents to settle at $3.73 1/4 a bushel; December corn rose 2 1/4 cents, to $2.12 1/2 a bushel; December oats rose 4 3/4 cents, to $1.46 1/2 a bushel; November soybeans climbed 2 3/4 cents, to $5.60 3/4 a bushel.
Livestock and meat futures finished narrowly mixed on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (84%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (84%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; COFFEE COFFEE MARKETS (98%); COFFEE (96%); FUTURES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); OATS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (79%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (69%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (67%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (63%); TERRORISM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



467 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Fails to Rally Despite Rate Cuts in Europe

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar failed to rally yesterday in the face of several favorable economic reports and lower interest rates abroad.
Gold prices advanced worldwide. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $335.30 an ounce, up $2.10 from Thursday. The Republic National Bank said gold had gained $2.30 an ounce, to a late bid price of $335.70. 
 The dollar headed lower in European trading despite interest-rate cuts in Britain, France and Italy announced Thursday. As European rates decline, United States yields appear more attractive to investors.
When trading shifted to domestic markets, the dollar got a momentary boost from a report showing a larger-than-expected increase in October retail sales.
A separate report showed consumer prices also rose more than expected. While generally negative because higher prices signal inflation, the report "dashed lingering hopes for a rate cut" by the Federal Reserve, said Marc Chandler, an analyst with the advisory firm IDEA.
Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated securities more valuable to investors.
"Despite the constructive data, the dollar's strong rally could not be reignited," Mr. Chandler said, referring to the dollar's steady upward climb in recent weeks, which began to stall a few days ago.
He predicted further profit taking early next week but noted that the underlying sentiment toward the dollar remained favorable.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 123.84 yen, down 0.29 yen from Thursday's close. Later, in London, the dollar was quoted at 123.90 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 124.05 yen, up from 123.95 yen on Thursday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.5510, from $1.5240 late Thursday. In New York, it cost $1.5505 to buy one pound, more expensive than Thursday's $1.5290.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.5725 German marks, down from 1.5800; 1.4190 Swiss francs, down from 1.4285; 5.3055 French francs, down from 5.3365; 1,344.00 Italian lire, down from 1,356.00, and 1.2644 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2616.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (57%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (57%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); BRITISH POUND (68%); GERMAN MARK (61%); RETAIL SALES (54%); 

PERSON: MARC CHANDLER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



468 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
DISNEY SEES ENVIRONMENT HURDLES TO PROPOSED PARK

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
The environmental impact costs from Walt Disney Company's proposed construction of a $3 billion theme park in Anaheim, Calif., raise new doubts about the feasibility of the park, a Disney executive said yesterday. A draft environmental impact report by the City of Anaheim on the proposed Westcot Center park found that most environmental effects could be mitigated but at a high cost, said Kerry Hunnewell, vice president of the Disney Development Company. "The economics are kind of marginal right now," he said. Environmental costs are estimated to represent about $750 million of the projected total cost of the park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ANAHEIM, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANAHEIM (CALIF) UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ANAHEIM, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (85%); 

PERSON: WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1992



469 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: The Romance of Boston

BYLINE: By Jane Holtz Kay; Jane Holtz Kay, the author of "Lost Boston" and the architecture critic of The Nation, is writing "Carbound: Ending the Auto Age."

 BODY:

CITYSCAPES OF BOSTON
An American City Through Time.
By Robert Campbell and Peter Vanderwarker.
Illustrated. 220 pp. Boston:
A Peter Davison Book/
Houghton Mifflin Company. $35.
 
PLANNING THE CITY UPON A HILL
Boston Since 1630.
By Lawrence W. Kennedy.
Illustrated. 314 pp. Amherst:
University of Massachusetts Press. $27.50. 
 POST-MODERN, post-urban: this would seem to be the era of the valley of despond in American cities. What lessons could Boston -- this urbane covey, this franchiser of lost literati and losing Presidential candidates -- offer a nation in which urban means apartheid? Does anybody really want to attend to cities other than to flee, fleece, privatize, butcher or decimate them?
And yet, for all our car-burb creations and post-Los Angeles Angst, the romance of the city dies hard. Not only romance. Ruminations on urban life reflect more than nostalgia: New York architecture is being chronicled in a hefty trilogy, Chicago recently earned a fascinating urban ecology ("Nature's Metropolis" by William Cronon) and even Los Angeles has writers who can evoke moody apocalypse from what we outsiders see as scourge or sprawl ("City of Quartz" by Mike Davis).
Cities, even shell cities, remain what they always were; what the root word "civitas" in "citizens" and "cities" suggests; what Lewis Mumford meant in the phrase "heart of empire" (an empire of mind and art and community) and, finally, what parochial romanticists (I among them) and even progressive time-motion economists maintain.
By these standards and by its size and design, its history and livability, Boston does deserve a place on some literary-geographic crest. The authors of two new books demonstrate why and how. They brandish the art of city making, describe buildings "dressed to kill," explore the artistic, the workaday and the wherewithal of creating a city of density, assembly and appeal. Surveying this time-bound city, once a peninsula about the size of New York's Central Park, they peel back the years to reveal the anomaly inside an enigma: a planned place in unplanned, placeless America.
"Cityscapes of Boston: An American City Through Time," by the architecture critic Robert Campbell, supplies a fascinating then-and-now photo primer on how Boston's lessons of design and urbanity work today and could work elsewhere tomorrow. "Planning the City Upon a Hill," by the historian Lawrence W. Kennedy, offers a close-up narrative of "Boston since 1630." They both record a city not only laminated by history but also one well trodden and visually vital despite its economic downslide.
MR. CAMPBELL, a critic for The Boston Globe, is the more episodic but acute voyager through the centuries of Boston architecture, or at least through the century and a half recorded by camera. "Cityscapes of Boston" presents a dynamic and engaging juxtaposition of images of times past and recent pictures shot from the same vantage point by the photographer Peter Vanderwarker. Amplified from a series that appeared first in The Boston Globe Magazine, the book could serve as a model text and approach to use in every city.
Often lyrical and always lucid, this is a portable book for a mutable city. Its then-and-now can be read on many levels: as a tale of successive cityscapes, as a polemic on caring in times past (and of mostly not caring in times present) and as an urban design guide with chapter headings like "Making the Public City" or "Strutting Our Stuff." Mr. Campbell's passion and prejudices enliven his story of city making. He delights in buildings that "turn the corner" of a street, those "ship's prow" shapes that swell toward the viewer; he favors "houses with hats and faces in a city of outdoor rooms," and offers comments at once quirky and instructive.
You may disagree with his opinions from time to time. (One man's "humane" Rowes Wharf is this woman's overscaled wall obstructing the waterfront.) You may admire his view that the flattening of the West End of the city, a classic urban renewal disaster, was "the product of well-meaning but idiotic control freaks, playing in their offices with zoning maps instead of walking out into the world to observe how cities really work," while also putting blame on developers, a myopic public and a pernicious era in urban history.
The rich, personalized nature of this book is a pleasure. Neither didactic nor high-style highbrow, Mr. Campbell's own aphorisms (Harvard Square "works because Harvard trusts it") blend with epigrams from people like Jorge Luis Borges ("after the age of 50, all change becomes a hateful symbol of the passing of time"). His polemic is invigorating. "Since World War II, American cities have been trashed by the invasion of marauding expressways that roar into town and slice up neighborhoods like raucous vandals," he writes. Shots of plain folks and idiosyncratic asides give the book a scrapbook air that like the city itself is intimate for all its elegance.
Mr. Vanderwarker's legwork unearthed the pictures of the original views and his adept photography captured today's scenes. If the photographic decks seem stacked against the present, that impression probably reflects the urbanity of 19th-century city builders and the beauty of the old photographs rather than any manipulation.
Lacking the depth or bite of that book, Lawrence Kennedy's straightforward, rather bloodless tale still fills a need. "Planning the City Upon a Hill" records the shaping of the city: the expansion and planning from Puritan arrival (1630) to wooden water-pipe expansion (1790); from the decapitation and embroidering of Beacon Hill to the invasion of South End, Back Bay, streetcar suburbs and the necklace of greenery Frederick Law Olmsted planned around the city. What is most useful, it updates Boston's tale of this century, charting the Depression epoch of Mayor James Michael Curley with its economic and architectural stasis, followed by the postwar urban renewal that both ransacked and rebuilt the city.
The author tries to translate Boston's conversion from mud flat and gravel to brick and greenery in terms of an alliance of the same kind of private-public cooperation promoted as a panacea today. In a book thrice its size and moral scope he would have trouble drawing conclusions. Each time slot, each segment of the city had its visionaries, its profiteers, its politicians. Shaping the Beacon Hill that emerged in the early 19th century with Charles Bulfinch, who was reigning architect and political chieftain at the same time, is not the same as creating the Back Bay, shaped by plan and commission after the Civil War. The desperate hours of the 1950's and 60's, when "New Boston" honchos flattened valued neighborhoods and raised architectural excrescences, are not the 70's and booming 80's, when Mayor Kevin White sold cherished landscapes to speculators for tax-abated towers.
Such comments may seem churlish. In the light of Boston's livability and the misery of many other cities, one cannot ignore the physical revitalization of the city. But by and large, this top-down history is too much the gospel according to the Boston Redevelopment Authority, the urban renewal agency where Mr. Kennedy once worked as a consulting historian. Although he tries to address issues of equity, Mr. Kennedy neglects urban or architectural criticism: labeling the abysmal, anti-urban new architecture of the opulent Copley Place or the insolvent Lafayette Place malls with the common and neutral phrase "larger developments" is more than lax prose.
His emphasis throughout on commerce and politics to the exclusion of civic or esthetic sensibility compounds the problem. Though his narrative is compact and up to date, it fails to explains old Boston's adroit patterning before planning became a profession, or modern Boston's capacity to make "recycling" and "festival marketeering" common coinage now. And by doing so, it slights the city's contribution to revitalization and preservation nationally.
"In the history of cities, private enterprise with public ambitions has created some of the best urban spaces," Robert Campbell observes almost offhandedly in "Cityscapes of Boston." Despite the search for large dreams and urban planning lessons, his corner-by-corner caring may say more about how a city is created than the pronouncements of the planners and politicians.
That is what the reader will find by studying the streetscapes or following the outline of their creation in the hub of Boston. Despite the fact this city on the hill still awaits a history that would combine the architectural and urban design approach of the Campbell book and the planning scope of the Kennedy one, the insights of the authors and the views of the photographer Peter Vanderwarker focus attention on the art and craft of urbanity at its most consistent in this country.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shops in Province Court, Boston, in 1900. (Boston Public Library/From "Cityscapes of Boston"); Province Court in 1992: a service alley and a garage. (Peter Vanderwarker/From "Cityscapes of Boston")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CITYSCAPES OF BOSTON (BOOK); PLANNING THE CITY UPON A HILL (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); HISTORY (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (55%); 

PERSON: KAY, JANE HOLTZ; CAMPBELL, ROBERT; VANDERWARKER, PETER; KENNEDY, LAWRENCE W LEWIS MUMFORD (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



470 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 29; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4973 words

HEADLINE: Journey to Isolation

BYLINE: By David E. Sanger; David E. Sanger is chief of the Tokyo bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
As our caravan of air-conditioned tour buses lumbered into Chongjin, a port town in the barren northeast corner of North Korea, housewives and schoolchildren -- most of whom had apparently been ordered off the streets before we arrived -- stared in amazement from their windows and schoolyards. For the inhabitants of the world's most hermetically sealed nation, we were, without doubt, an odd sight: a hundred or so Japanese businessmen, a few American academics and journalists, even a couple of South Korea's leading industrialists thinly disguised as "academics" and "consultants." But the biggest oddity was not us. It was our buses.
North Korea is so broke these days that buses are rarely seen. Not only are there virtually no tourists, but gasoline is so scarce there are few moving vehicles. Furthermore, conditions in the last few years have deteriorated so much that this notoriously secretive nation is doing the unthinkable. It is welcoming its traditional enemies, urging them to build megaports and factories in areas they would have been shot for entering a year ago. 
 For the North, this reflects the total failure of juche, the national religion of self-reliance. These days, the North Korean Government is busy amending its laws for international joint ventures and wooing many of those it has openly despised. Last month, it passed its first comprehensive foreign investment law, specifically aimed at drawing in South Korean investors and those from other "enemy" states.
"We want to develop our technology," Kim Dal Hyon -- the Deputy Prime Minister and a man believed to be in the vanguard of a tenuous reform movement -- admitted to us in a rare flash of candor in Pyongyang, the capital. "It is for our own survival."
Yet, with characteristic bravado, North Korea's officials also insist they can do what Eastern Europe could not: reform their economy without backing off an inch from the hard-line Communist ideology that has kept this nation tightly controlled since the division of North and South in 1945.
The harsh reality sweeping through this country is this: After 45 years, North Korea has been virtually abandoned by its longtime allies. Throughout the cold war, while the United States supported the South, the Soviet Union and China provided the regime of Kim Il Sung, who is now 80 years old, with food and fuel and technology. Every day freight trains rumbled across the single-track bridge spanning the Tumen River. But with the end of East-West hostilities, both Moscow and Beijing -- faced with their own economic problems and pragmatically preferring the capitalist South's steel plants and car factories to the North's Stalinist rhetoric -- have opened diplomatic relations with Seoul.
In late September, China -- the country that sent more than a million troops swarming over the border more than 40 years ago to crush the South -- welcomed South Korea's President, Roh Tae Woo, on a historic first trip. Roh brought what the Chinese wanted: news that this year South Korea's trade with the Chinese will double to more than $10 billion, and that even more South Korean-owned electronics factories and clothing plants would be built in the special economic zone of Guangdong Province, adjacent to Hong Kong. In a few days President Boris N. Yeltsin is scheduled to make his first visit to Seoul, and to talk about rebuilding Russia the way South Korea had transformed itself into one of Asia's industrial dragons.
No one knows for certain what kind of panic this is touching off in Pyongyang, but on North Korea's side of the Tumen, Li Song Pil, the spry stationmaster, can measure the country's isolation with precision. A few years ago, six or seven freight trains crossed the river every day. These days, he said: "Sometimes we see one. Sometimes, nothing comes."
But if this nation of 22 million is opening its door, it is opening it just a crack. The regime of the "Great Leader" and his son and heir apparent, "Dear Leader" Kim Jong Il, is determined not to let capitalists undo more than 40 years of rigid political training.
On our 10-day swing through the country several months ago, we were honored guests, even treated to a giant picnic on a beach along the northeastern coast near an area that North Korea hopes to turn into a thriving port. But an electric fence separated us from North Koreans living nearby. One morning, a group of us touring one of Chongjin's decaying shipyards wandered toward the shipyard entrance, hoping to get to the street and talk to people passing by. We never got the chance. As we approached the big iron gate, it slammed shut and armed guards emerged from their posts, shouting, "Seot! Seot!" ("Halt! Halt!"). One of our well-groomed guides, clearly annoyed by our temerity, explained that although the country is open, mixing with the populace "could be dangerous."
The regime seems equally insecure in its new international forays, alternating welcoming gestures with standard cold-war charges against the United States and its "puppets" in Seoul. Indeed, little that has happened in North Korea in the past year has eased fears that the regime might once again lash out, especially since it could soon gain nuclear capability.
There is far less of that fear than there was just a few months ago when the Central Intelligence Agency asserted that a 20-year effort by North Korea to build a crude nuclear device could be only months away from completion. American satellites had picked up a near-completed plutonium reprocessing plant, the last major hurdle before a bomb can be assembled. Under pressure from Washington, Tokyo and Moscow, Kim Il Sung was forced to let in international inspectors. Many believe that Pyongyang, surprised by the harshness of the West's reaction, may now have given up its nuclear card. Skeptics in the United States and Japan, however, note that the North Koreans are past masters of deception.
Oddly enough, among those who feel less threatened by Pyongyang's nuclear capabilities are the South Koreans, who appear confident that the end game in a four-decades-long conflict has begun. Even President Roh, in his last months in office, is talking like a general who sees victory on the horizon.
The North's "determination to develop nuclear weapons has become weaker," he told me in September at Blue House -- the giant new presidential palace on a hillside above Seoul, only about 35 miles from the border -- that is surrounded by elaborate defenses against possible North Korean terrorists. "North Korea is much more isolated this year than it was last year. Their economic situation is deteriorating, and their people are suffering from the lack of food. They have decided they must gradually open up. They have no choice. The waves of liberalization are rolling in."
In fact, the main fear in Blue House today is that the waves may crash in too quickly. Mindful of the enormous cost of creating an united Germany, Seoul still talks of achieving its dream of reunifying the Korean peninsula but seems in no rush to realize it. Some say that the price tag may be as high as $400 billion. And those who once argued for pressing the North to the wall are saying they want to avoid forcing a collapse.
South Korean companies are urging their Government to permit them to begin investing in the North, rebuilding its infrastucture and creating jobs and access to cheap labor, so that the South's economy will not be forced to absorb crippling costs when reunification arrives. Last month, even with the nuclear questions unresolved, the Government allowed a delegation of industrialists to visit the North to explore moving old textile factories and aging equipment to its industrial zones.
"We would like to encourage North Korea to change gradually, to change peacefully," one of Roh's most senior advisors says. "But this is not the kind of thing where you get to pick your timing."
Says Donald Gregg, the C.I.A.'s station chief in Seoul at the height of the cold war and now the American Ambassador there: "There is already a subliminal feeling of victory in the air -- that unification will come, and it will come on the South's terms. That is an enormous change. Three years ago, a Russian came to me here, one of the first who was allowed into Seoul, and he said with some surprise, 'You know, the South is scared to death of the North.' That was true then. It's not true anymore."
In the tightly ordered world of Pyongyang, North Korea's show city, every Government project is a "gift" from the Great Leader. This year, marking the 80th birthday of Kim Il Sung and the 50th birthday of his son, Kim Jong Il, there have been a lot of gifts. Some are buildings, like the Reunification Housing Project apartments, functional two-to-four-room units that would be welcome public housing anywhere in New York -- save for the speakers in most hallways constantly blaring Government propaganda.
With basic necessities in shorter supply than at any time in memory, the most prized gifts are food and clothes. China celebrated the senior Kim's birthday in April -- a few months before giving diplomatic recognition to the South -- by sending several hundred thousand tons of pork. When our group visited the Pyongyang High Middle School No. 1, Li Chun Ran, a 17-year-old, removed her lab smock to show us her new blue school dress. She wears it every day. "Kim Il Sung and the Dear Leader, Kim Jong Il, gave me the dress," she said.
The school, a Government showcase, boasts of classrooms filled with Japanese personal computers, advanced science laboratories equipped with up-to-date microscopes and even a room for driver's education, complete with a Chinese car and a screen projecting scenery racing by on the road. The only hitch is that almost no one in Pyongyang can buy a car. Indeed, the only cars on the streets are Volvo taxis (priced so that only foreigners can hire them), a few aging Mercedes limousines for V.I.P.'s and some modern-looking trams made in Eastern Europe. At night, the city is virtually pitch-black, with only a few buildings lit.
In a city of grandiose Stalinist-style monuments, the biggest one is the 105-story Ryu Gyong Hotel, designed to be the tallest in Asia. A bit more than half-finished, the pyramid towers over the city. No official would comment on the project, but rumors abound that it is out of money, and it is visibly in need of structural repair. But clearly utility is not an issue. Only about 100,000 tourists visit North Korea each year, all on group tours and most from the dwindling family of Communist or socialist countries. Most of them could not afford the Ryu Gyong if it were open.
What strikes a visitor to Pyongyang, a city of two million, is the total absence of spontaneity. It is perhaps the only Asian city without the chaotic, open markets that are plentiful in other Communist capitals, from Hanoi to Beijing. The department stores seem well stocked; there are few, if any, shoppers.
"Anything of value is rationed," explained a diplomat stationed in Pyongyang. "You might have coupons to get a few things, but almost no one buys in the stores."
When two of us asked on a Saturday to go to a restaurant where ordinary Koreans eat lunch, our guide had to take us on a 45-minute drive around town until he found one that was open. When colleagues visited an off-the-tourist-path apartment building and found it run-down and filthy, they were brought in for questioning.
Although officials take great pains to keep visitors from seeing any sign of poverty in Pyongyang, they are unable to do the same in the countryside. Early one morning, not long after our train began its journey up the coast, we saw women hoeing the hard earth by hand in the villages passing by our window. Oxen were few and far between. According to diplomats stationed in Pyongyang, malnutrition is widespread, with many people not getting their full allotment of 4.4 pounds of red meat and chicken a month. Earlier this year, the regime adopted the slogan "Let's Eat Two Meals!"
Every few months there are reports from ethnic Koreans living over the border in China about food riots breaking out in remote towns in the North. The stories are impossible to check, but with so many accounts most experts believe they carry at least some truth. "What we think happens," says Kim Chang Soon, the director of the Institute for North Korean Studies in Seoul, "is that people are supposed to receive rice every 15 days, but they get only enough for 10. So for the last 5 days they eat grass and vegetables and when the 15th day arrives, they go to get their rice. If it isn't there, they raid the warehouse."
Rice is not the only scarce commodity. From our train, we saw armed guards standing atop piles of coal at rail depots; later, North Korean officials conceded that theft had become a growing problem. Since 1990, Moscow has refused to deliver oil at what were called "friendship" rates, far below the market value. By some estimates, North Korea is getting only a third of the petroleum supplies it needs.
South Korean officials, who have an interest in painting a bleak picture, estimate that Pyongyang's economy shrank by 3.7 percent in 1990 and by 5.2 percent last year. Exports last year were about $1 billion -- roughly what the South exports in five days. Many economists, and the American intelligence community, estimate that things are actually much worse in the North. But because the North Korean Government guards most economic data as state secrets and because almost every economic "fact" is an extrapolation from anecdotes, it is easy for North Korean officials to issue blanket denials.
"We do not face any economic crisis that is not found in Russia or any East European country," one senior official insisted to us. The "only economic trouble we face," he said, was that "we cannot export or import any goods from the formerly socialist countries."
In most countries, sudden privation of the sort North Koreans are experiencing would be tinder for revolution. But North Korea is unlike most countries. So far, there is no sign of the kind of discontent that brought down Communism in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Unlike East Germans a few years ago, who knew -- from television and from a steady stream of visitors -- about life in the West, North Koreans seem to know almost nothing about the heady prosperity in the South. There is no television from the outside world, only a few shortwave radios in the hands of the elite, and endless propaganda about the abuse of workers, crime and homelessness in South Korea, Japan and the United States.
In short, after 35 years of brutal Japanese occupation, followed by 44 years of strong-arm Communist dictatorship, few North Koreans are in a position to question what they are told. And what they are still being told is that North Korea remains a "socialist paradise on earth." At the "mass games" for Kim Il Sung's birthday, where 100,000 schoolchildren performed precision gymnastics, a huge sign proclaimed "We Envy Nobody in the World!"
Public devotion to the Great Leader seems undiminished. If the South's economy was built on entrepreneurship and industrial policy, the North's has been built on a personality cult: a quasi-religious loyalty to the "great sun of mankind," Kim Il Sung. On the outskirts of Pyongyang, workers still line up to see North Korea's equivalent of Abe Lincoln's cabin -- the primitive thatched-roof house where the Great Leader was born.
When you ask North Koreans why they work so hard -- a national characteristic shared with the South -- the answer is predictable. "These buildings were made for us by the Great Leader, Kim Il Sung, who wants to give greatly to his people," Cho Ho Sun, a 35-year-old construction worker, said, pausing for a moment from his work planting trees around the just-completed Reunification Housing Projects. "They were built on rice fields," Cho continued. "By planting trees, we pay solicitude to Kim Il Sung and the Dear Leader, Kim Jong Il."
People in North Korea really talk this way. North Korean authorities -- unlike their counterparts in China, for example -- hardly blink when you walk up to almost anyone in the capital, where people seem accustomed to handling foreigners, and start a conversation. They have little reason to fear that something untoward will slip out.
Although the few people we managed to speak to -- always under the gaze of a Government functionary -- invariably spoke of the Great Leader and the Dear Leader almost as one, it wasn't clear during our visit if the succession from father to son was as certain as it once seemed. North Korean officials seemed hard-pressed to name even a few things the Dear Leader had done for his nation. We pressed one young official dining with us one night at the Communist Party's guest house in Pyongyang -- a 14-course meal, including quail soup and steamed piglet, followed by a Las Vegas-style floor show. He struggled for a few moments, said something vague about the Dear Leader's management of the economy, then came up with: "He is competent at many things."
In September, however, North Korea's Foreign Minister Kim Yong Nam, in New York to attend a session of the United Nations, reportedly told South Korean reporters that all power had been transferred to Kim Jong Il, and that the senior Kim, while he was still President, was playing only an "advisory" role. In a rare move, the younger Kim recently entertained a delegation of foreign businessmen on his yacht; until then, handling foreigners had always been his father's job.
Whether Kim Jong Il becomes the next Great Leader, though, depends largely on a segment of North Korean society about which little is known: the ruling elite. By most estimates, the 1.5 million or so members of the "intelligentsia" are the ones who have everything: education, social status, whatever wealth there is to go around. Within this group are 10,000 to 15,000 senior officials with access to the best medical care and special shops.
There is widespread speculation that many of the top military brass -- presumably the key figures in succession politics -- were deeply unhappy when Kim Jong Il was named head of the armed forces earlier this year. The younger Kim is reputed to be a spoiled playboy with a pronounced taste for liquor and women. (Japanese intelligence agents learn what little they can about him by seeking out the foreign "hostesses" he is said to import for "entertainment.") The most commonly discussed scenario for North Korea after Kim Il Sung is that the Dear Leader will be told that he can keep his cars and "entertainers" -- as long as he does what he is told.
NORTH KOREA'S Military ranks as the world's fifth- or sixth-largest, with about one million men, 710 ships and 850 combat aircraft (mostly older Russian-made MIG's) and a budget accounting for 21.5 percent of the country's gross national product. The military is also the country's most successful exporter: North Korean-made versions of the Scud missile are becoming a favorite among Middle Eastern nations.
American and South Korean commanders acknowledge in private, however, that respect for the North's military prowess is declining. Many of the troops spend their days putting up new buildings and rebuilding the fractured rail network. South Koreans, who for years based their enormous military budgets on the size and skill of their Northern enemies, are now cutting back the rate of growth.
Pyongyang's nuclear capability is quite another matter. Attention was suddenly focused on its bomb-building plans when post-mortems of the Persian Gulf war uncovered shocking intelligence lapses, chiefly the failure of the International Atomic Energy Agency to detect the scope or progress of Iraq's nuclear bomb project -- although Iraq had submitted itself to regular agency inspections.
Until a few months ago, North Korea had never let agency inspectors into Yongbyon, the sprawling, secret installation Kim Il Sung began building in the mountains north of the capital in the 1960's. The first part completed was a small, Soviet-supplied research reactor. A much bigger reactor opened in the mid-80's, capable of producing enough waste plutonium to build a crude bomb.
Around 1988, American satellite cameras began to pick up another giant building that seemed perfectly suited for reprocessing plutonium -- turning waste into bomb fuel. It is a complex technology that many thought was beyond North Korea's talents. But apart from satellite pictures, intelligence about the project was sketchy. "In Iraq we had oil people coming in and out, we had some scientific exchange, we had commerce," one American intelligence official with long experience in Asia said this year. "With North Korea, we had nothing. Zip."
Kim had long justified barring outside inspectors by saying he would not permit them as long as the United States kept nuclear weapons in the South. But last December the Bush Administration removed the remaining American nuclear weapons from South Korea. Under intense pressure from Washington, Seoul agreed to forswear any reprocessing of its own -- making it easier to demand that Pyongyang do the same.
Once the North Koreans allowed inspectors in, the atomic energy agency discovered a vast reprocessing center. But the C.I.A. had guessed wrong about the innards of the cavernous building. The reprocessor was less than half completed, the equipment unimpressive. The North Koreans admitted they had experimented with reprocessing tiny quantities of plutonium in laboratories -- far too little to make a bomb -- and insisted their work was part of an energy research project.
Early this year, however, before inspectors arrived, satellite photographs showed trucks pulling up to the reprocessing facility, perhaps to cart away equipment. Bolstering suspicions that critical equipment might be hidden, Hans Blix, the director of the atomic energy agency, noted in a report he circulated to several governments that the North Koreans may have built a "pilot plant" to process plutonium, out of satellite view, before taking the risky leap to the building at Yongbyon.
The United States and South Korea are still insisting on an agreement to allow South Korean teams to look around in the North, while North Koreans inspect sites in the South. Because South Korean inspectors speak the same language and share the same culture, it is hoped they might be able to uncover what the agency cannot. A nuclear-armed North could overturn the delicate balance that has kept the region in check for decades. If North Korea succeeds in producing a nuclear bomb, the South would be forced to build one of its own (it tried once in the 1970's, before the United States quashed the project) and Japan might be forced to rethink the wisdom of its own ban on nuclear weapons.
AS INSPECTORS WERE combing through the North's nuclear reactors in late July, a North Korean journeying to the South was escorted across the miles of tank traps and mine fields and barbed wire that make up the demilitarized zone and onto the highways that feed into Seoul. He was Kim Dal Hyon, one of the new breed of economic "pragmatists." He was the one who had told us in Pyongyang two months earlier that the openings were "for our own survival," that juche had been a philosophy of necessity, not of choice. "We have been isolated by the world community," he had said, "because of pressure from certain superpowers."
In Seoul, Kim was given a tour of everything from advanced electronics factories to noisy markets overflowing with consumer goods. He visited the country's industrial heartland. When he was finally escorted to Blue House, his message to President Roh was simple: South Korea, for its own good and the North's, should allow its giant chae bol -- the industrial conglomerates like Samsung, Daewoo and Hyundai -- to invest in the North.
"I know that without prospects for profit, they will not come," Kim said. "I promise that they will make profits."
The energetic North Korean knew precisely what he was walking into: a quiet but significant split between the United States and South Korea over how to deal with the North. Meeting with North Korean representatives at the United Nations early in the year, Arnold L. Kanter, a senior State Department official, made it clear that the North would get nothing -- not even mid-level talks with the United States -- until the nuclear questions were completely resolved. South Korea, with far more at stake, has gradually moved toward a different view.
Scores of economists sent to study the obvious parallel -- the integration of East and West Germany -- had come back with the message that if Seoul wanted to avoid economic disaster, it better start now. "The best guesses are that it would cost $250 billion to $400 billion," says Kongdan Oh, a Korean-born policy analyst with the Rand Corporation, a research institute based in Santa Monica, Calif. "So there are a lot of contingency plans under way. If the South can get management know-how and technology into the North and begin to train people, it will bring the costs down."
Bowing to United States pressure, until recently President Roh resisted negotiating with the North while the nuclear issues remained unresolved. But with an election approaching, the pressure is building for a major initiative with economic promise. During Kim Dal Hyon's visit, Roh agreed to allow a team to visit the North and explore business opportunities. According to South Korean press reports, when Roh met recently with the heads of the South's largest conglomerates, Koo Cha Kyung, chairman of the Federation of Korean Industries, used the one argument that he knew would strike a nerve. South Korea, he said, "should consider investing in labor-intensive and consumer goods industries in the North because Japan is showing great interest in North Korea's labor pool."
In fact, no one has been more heavily courted by Kim Il Sung these days than the Japanese. It is hardly a natural alliance. In his recently published reminiscences, Kim's hatred for the Japanese is writ large in almost every chapter, as he recalled his early days battling the nation's occupiers. "While visiting various parts of the world," he wrote, "I have had the opportunity of seeing many former colonial countries, but I have never seen imperialism so hideous that it deprived people of their language and surnames and even plundered them of their tableware."
Now, though, North Korea looks across the Sea of Japan (in Pyongyang it is called the East Sea of Korea) and sees a giant bank vault. For more than a year, delegations from the former colonizer and the former colony have been meeting regularly -- and getting no place.
"The meetings are very strange," says one Japanese official involved in the talks. "The North Koreans send maybe 15 people, but most of them don't speak at all." Although the negotiators claim to be diplomats, "most don't have any experience abroad," he says.
Pyongyang has also been making overtures to the business community of Niigata, one of Japan's major ports, which is a few hundred miles across the sea from the Tumen outlet. But even with the help of the United Nations Development Program, North Korea's initial presentations to potential investors in the Tumen have been rambling and vague. China and Russia are less than enthusiastic, because they view the project as competition for their own ports.
On our visit, Japanese executives who toured the region found that very little of the infrastructure had improved since the Japanese occupiers left in 1945. "The river is too narrow to carry ships," one executive of a major trading house said. "They are wasting our time."
WHEN ROH TAE WOO LEAVES office next February, he will go down in history as the man who brought the beginnings of democracy to South Korea. Just as remarkably, he brought about diplomatic independence. The "northern policy" that brought Pyongyang to the negotiating table was not hatched in Washington but in Seoul.
So far, though, the apparent progress is far greater than the reality. The "reconciliation and nonaggression" agreement signed nearly a year ago calls for regular exchanges of family members, air and mail links. But almost every effort to put specifics of the agreement into effect have failed. The North, for example, has blocked installing a military "hot line" until the United States and South Korea halt their joint military exercises. North Korea's rulers know that as soon as news and people move across the border the "paradise on earth" line will quickly wear thin. Meanwhile, diatribes and sometimes gunfire are still exchanged. Earlier this year, an apparently accidental incursion into South Korean territory led to the killing of three North Korean soldiers.
South Koreans have no doubts that managing reunification will be the task for the next decade. Managed well, it could turn Korea into the region's newest economic powerhouse, fusing the technology of the South with the eager, cheap work force of the North. Managed badly, it could bring chaos, with new battles along the DMZ -- a conflict that could involve China, Japan and the United States.
It is easy to forget that for all their common roots, North and South Koreans are virtual strangers to one another. They have grown up in different worlds, fought a war against each other and rebuilt vastly different societies. That has been driven home to South Korean negotiators who, visiting Pyongyang, have opened their hotel-room doors to long-lost relatives. Instead of a tearful embrace, they have gotten lectures on the wonders of the Great Leader's rule.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of visitors, here at the railroad bridge that links North Korea and China, were pampered but isolated. The tour visited rural Rajin. In the countryside, malnutrition is said to be widespread. (Photographs by Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press)(pg. 28-29); Pyongyang, the capital, is North Korea's show city, with model schools and grandiose Stalinist monuments. Public housing in Pyongyang. Every Government project is a "gift" from the Great Leader. Spectators at Pyongyang National Stadium for a show that was staged -- with a cast of 100,000 or so -- for a delegation of guests. (Photographs by Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press)(pg. 30); "Great Leader" Kim Il Sung, second from right, in May with Yang Shangkun, then President of China, fourth from left. China still sends food, but seeks ties with the South. (Guo Zhanying/Xinhua); Power is shifting to "Dear Leader" Kim Jong Il, the President's 50-year-old son. He is now head of the armed forces. (Hiroji Kubota/Magnum)(pg. 32); The 105-story Ryu Gyong Hotel towers over Pyongyang. It is designed to be Asia's tallest hotel, but is far from completed and already in disrepair. (Photograph by Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press); Part of the nuclear complex at Yongbyon. An energy research center or a bomb factory? (Photograph by International Atomic Energy Agency)(pg. 36); The central railroad station in Pyongyang, where the authorities take great pains to keep visitors from seeing poverty. In rural areas, however, deprivation can't be hidden. (Photographs by Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (51%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (51%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COLD WAR (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CHILDREN (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); POLITICS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); TRAINS (60%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); JOINT VENTURES (51%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



471 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
Growing Down Grows Up

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
During the late political unpleasantness, Governor Clinton promised to "grow the economy." President Bush derided this promise not on the basis of its syntactical formulation but in regard to its object: he accused his opponent of intending to "grow government," and he pledged that if re-elected he would grow down the deficit.
"At first," writes a horrified Anthony Lanyi of McLean, Va., "I assumed these were slips of the tongue, since grow as a transitive verb is used only in an agricultural context, as in 'I grow tomatoes in my garden.' " In similar dismay, Esther B. Fein, a New York Times reporter reared in the tradition of fine distinctions, stopped me in the hall to say, "You raise cattle and rear children, but grow the economy and grow down the deficit?" 
 Grow to like it, because the transitive use of grow in a citified sense has deep roots in the language and is here to stay. "Whan David had regned vii yere in Ebron," William Caxton wrote in 1481 about Jerusalem, "he grewe and amended moche this cyte."
Fred Mish, editorial director of Merriam-Webster, says, "The transitive use of grow with inanimate objects like business is covered by the basic transitive definition, 'to cause to grow.' " The object of grow doesn't have to be limited to soybeans or a beard -- it can logically apply to growing a business, an economy, a government or a deficit.
But what about growing down? This term is an oxymoron, a jarring juxtaposition of opposites, with an honored place in English dialect; the English lexicographer James O. Halliwell reported in 1847 that "to grow downward, i.e. to get smaller" was "a common phrase in the provinces."
Down is not used nearly so often in verb phrases as up, but we pay down loans, dress down illiterates and bring down Presidents; in the case of grow down, we are influenced by the recent builddown of forces, which played off buildup.
Be not horrified at what seem like daring or extended usages, even by politicians under pressure. The unfamiliar should not be presumed to be mistaken; that's how we grow the language.
 
KINDER THAN WHO?
 WHEN GEORGE BUSH SPOKE of a "kinder, gentler nation" in 1988, I recently reported that Nancy Reagan turned to a convention boxmate and tartly asked, "Kinder than who?" I added, "She knew when the cord was being cut, despite her grammatical lapse."
Purist who-whomniks hit back. In the course of a thoughtful letter on values, Neil Rudenstine, the president of Harvard, writes: "If we are thinking about the nation, then 'Kinder than what?' would probably have been right. But if the comparison seemed rather more personal, then 'Kinder than who?' is maybe clumsily correct."
Hermione Wickenden of Weston, Conn., writes, "If the question had been completed, it would logically read: 'Kinder than who (or Ronnie!) is kind?' " David Carney of Sag Harbor, L.I., notes, "You obviously mistook than, a conjunctive adverb of comparison, for a preposition."
You bet I take than as a preposition, not a conjunction. The purists would ask "Kinder than who [is]?" and answer "Kinder than I [am]"; impurists, or non-stiffs, would answer "Kinder than me," using the objective case, and substituting the objective whom for me.
Nancy Reagan's friend Peter Hannaford takes no position on the who/whom controversy, but points out that Mrs. Reagan did not listen to the speech from a convention box and doubts the accuracy of my report. Maybe it's apocryphal, though my source says not; if Mrs. Reagan said it, she used the words "Kinder than who?" and I am prepared to concede she has a legion of who-whomniks to support her grammar.
 
SIGHTED SUPERSESSION, SANK SAME
 SOME SPOOKY CHARACTER answering a query about the theft of communication encoders and keys from the Department of Justice dumped a bunch of secret memos on my desk. I will mine the dump for news in another space, but cannot resist reporting immediately on the language of security bureaucrats.
Describing an inventory check, the man from DOJ COMSEC Central Office of Record writes "all items were physically sighted." Presumably this means the items themselves -- not pictures or descriptions or computer simulations -- were seen by the inventory-taker's human eye. Physically is sometimes used to mean "I was there"; sighted can have the sense of being seen from afar, or the sense of not being blind. In normal human discourse, physically sighted would be put as actually seen.
"The destruction of superseded key is accorded high priority with N.S.A.," the security official notes sternly. (N.S.A. stands for National Security Agency, nicknamed No Such Agency.) Key is, I assume, code material; superseded key must be "old codes" superseded, or replaced, by new ones. (Comes from the Latin supersedere, literally "to sit on top of.") Thus, if you look at an old code and want to impress your superiors about it in a memo, you write you are physically sighting superseded key.
"Custodian failed to destroy over 300 pieces of Top Secret operational and contingency STU-II key material," huffs the investigating officer, using over when he means more than, "within five days of supersession."
Although supersession was in use in 1790 to mean "the act of superseding," it has itself been superseded by the gerund superseding. He should have written "within five days of superseding"; a supersession, among the Ninth Street cognoscenti, connotes a fun time in the office of the Attorney General.
 
-AUTS, -ITES OR -IONS
 WILL THE FOLLOWERS OF BILL Clinton follow the practice of George McGovern, Richard Nixon or Ronald Reagan?
If the first, we will see frequent references to Clintonites, modeled on McGovernites.
Another choice would be Clinton ians, on the analogy of Nixonians.
A third would be Clintonauts, originating in Argonauts by way of Rea ganauts.
The only other possibility that comes to mind is Clinties, modeled on Bushies; that won't fly.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



472 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 32; Column 4; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: RADIO VIEW;
Shock Jocks Shake Up Uncle Sam

BYLINE: By Jon Pareles

 BODY:
Whose problem is Howard Stern? The Federal Communications Commission thinks he's a government problem; it recently levied a fine of $105,000 on Mr. Stern and his Los Angeles radio outlet, KLSX, for 12 counts of verbal "indecency" during his morning show. But the real question is why his mixture of juvenile humor and hostility, his crusading vulgarity, draws such huge audiences, and that makes him everybody's problem.
Mr. Stern, the reigning talent among so-called shock jocks, is now simulcast to 10 cities, including New York, Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles. The empire grows because he draws large audiences (his morning show leads the ratings in both New York and Los Angeles); he has also made forays into movies and television (his nationally syndicated show was recently canceled, but he will be doing an interview program for the Entertainment Channel). 
 On radio, "The Howard Stern Show" consists largely of Mr. Stern and his sidekick, Robin Quivers, talking sex, ethnic humor, the news and whatever else happens to come to mind -- mostly complaints, about wife, staff, celebrities, politicians and the F.C.C. Guests drop by; Mr. Stern elicits whatever they have to plug and then moves on to personal matters, like asking the broadcaster Maury Povich whether his wife, the newscaster Connie Chung, "bows a lot" (because she is Asian) and when he first slept with her. When offended listeners call in to complain, Mr. Stern and Ms. Quivers put them on the air and then laugh them off. As fans point out, the show is unpredictable; Mr. Stern may talk to celebrities, do sketch comedy, berate his producer at length or, as he did on Election Day with the comedian Gilbert Gottfried, do lengthy riffs of Amos-'n'-Andy-like black voices.
The shock-jock style has been imitated around the country. It's the herpes simplex of radio formats, contagious and incurable, though rarely fatal. One of the funniest things about Mr. Stern's show, perhaps unintentionally, is his sincere declaration of his own "bold and brazen" genius. When other radio personalities (for instance, Soupy Sales or Bruce Morrow) express reservations about Mr. Stern's tastelessness, he takes long stretches of air time to denounce them. His show constantly alternates self-deprecation (about his appearance: "a big-nosed idiot with freaky hair") and self-importance. "I liberated radio," he proclaimed the other day. "Talk radio is not interesting, I am interesting, and people imitating me are even interesting." There's also an endearing touch of paranoia; on one show, he insisted that the F.C.C. complaint was instigated by competing stations.
Mr. Stern represents free speech as loose talk, forever in search of the taboo-tweaking line that will jolt a sleepy listener out of bed or distract a commuter from the traffic. He's an insult comedian, an heir to Don Rickles, who invokes sexist and ethnic stereotypes as if by reflex. And he presents himself as an equal-opportunity insulter, although he is far more likely to pick on blacks and women than he is on WASP's. (Perhaps he feels immunized because Ms. Quivers, who sometimes chides him gently, is black.)
Told that a black South African won the New York Marathon, he asks, "Was he carrying a TV?" Complaining about drug-related violence created by "third-world people," he advocates building a wall across the California-Mexico border. He also stokes AIDS hysteria; commenting on the fears of infection that made Magic Johnson retire from the National Basketball Association, he said, "I wouldn't breathe the same air as Magic." Yet talking about Colorado's anti-gay referendum, he said it was "frightening" that voters refuse to accept homosexuals as people.
Mr. Stern is also a bawdy comedian, using the same vocabulary Dr. Ruth Westheimer does, though with non-therapeutic intent. The F.C.C. fined Mr. Stern for talk about masturbation, defecation and related topics, under laws against broadcasting "indecent material at times when there is a reasonable risk that children may be in the audience." At one point, according to a transcript, Mr. Stern said, "Hey, F.C.C.: penis." And indecency, a slightly broader category than obscenity, is judged by whether the terms are "patently offensive" by community standards. But given Mr. Stern's high ratings in his many broadcast markets, his lawyers might well argue that community standards are the ones he represents, since, as he has pointed out, no one forces people to listen.
Whether or not children are tuned in is not the problem. The stubborn fact is that adults tune in by the thousands. Listeners are attracted by someone who snarls blunt opinions, any opinions, and doesn't worry about being undiplomatic or politically incorrect. In a time of economic frustration and suppressed rage, it's fun to have a designated target, even if the listener feels slimy afterward.
Just as important, for Mr. Stern's listeners, it seems to be a big thrill to hear someone with the authority of a radio announcer talk about breasts and genitalia, hubba hubba. Apparently vast numbers of listeners are, like Mr. Stern's humor, suffering from a case of arrested development that elevates gross-out jokes to a full-fledged world view.
That's not Mr. Stern's problem; it's America's. Mr. Stern didn't invent the adolescent male's disgusted fascination with genitalia and bodily fluids; he only capitalizes on it. American mass media offer sexual discourse from the sniggers of "Studs" to the "steamy" romances of soap operas to the clinical-therapeutic tones of Dr. Ruth to the adolescent boasts of heavy metal and rap. Despite the F.C.C.'s presumptions, plenty of people prefer the locker room. Under pressure, Mr. Stern may switch from anatomical vocabulary to euphemisms like "rocket of love." But until his audience grows up, his style won't go away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Stern, whose broadcasts have resulted in a $105,000 fine -- Loose talker. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FCC CO LTD (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; REVIEWS RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); HERPES INFECTIONS (61%); RADIO FORMATS (57%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON; STERN, HOWARD HOWARD STERN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



473 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Neither Dracula Nor Rumor Frightens Coppola

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
Francis Ford Coppola once offered to share a waffle with a friend. Then he cut the waffle into the shape of a bow tie and tried to divide up the pieces. "That's the trouble with you," the friend said. "You can't just cut the thing in half." It is still the trouble with Mr. Coppola, or at least an example of his chronic inability to do anything simply. Asked to devise a "Dracula" with mass appeal, he has come up with the fanciest, most faithful Dracula movie ever made.
"Bram Stoker's Dracula," an extravagant parade of strange visual effects and stunning costumes starring Gary Oldman, Winona Ryder, Anthony Hopkins and Keanu Reeves, is the work of a man who could make an interesting-looking movie out of a menu. But why not "Francis Ford Coppola's Dracula"? "Because I don't think of stuff like this," said the director with a little laugh. Ensconced in a hotel tower on the Upper East Side of Manhattan last week, Mr. Coppola was preparing for a screening that would unveil the film to visiting journalists and would perhaps silence the cynics who have been calling it "The Bonfire of the Vampires." He appeared remarkably unworried about what might happen next. 
 The reason is this: Mr. Coppola has been so often savaged by the rumor mill that by now, at age 53, he takes almost anything in stride. Nothing could be worse than the "One From the Heart" debacle in 1982, when an early review based on an exhibitors' screening sank the film before it ever surfaced and brought Mr. Coppola a financial crisis that has lasted almost to this day. Advance stories of trouble also greeted "The Cotton Club" in 1984 and "The Godfather, Part III" in 1990.
"I guess when I was in the Philippines," he said of making "Apocalypse Now," another rumor-plagued production, "people thought of me as a crazy person, and then it became the thing to do just to make fun of me.
"I'm so grateful for Oliver Stone," he continued, "because he draws all the fire. Or Spike Lee. I hear them, and I think: 'Great, keep sayin' that stuff. Because then they won't pay any attention to me.' "
Less familiar than Mr. Coppola's reputation for profligacy is the fact that he has quietly developed into a cinematic gun-for-hire, a reliable professional capable of finishing the $45 million "Bram Stoker's Dracula" on budget and on time.
The film was shot on sound stages, which eliminated the danger posed by bad weather. And Mr. Coppola was "particularly concerned to prove that he could be a good citizen in terms of his responsibility report card," said Mark Canton, chairman of Columbia Pictures, which is distributing "Dracula." Mr. Coppola even sent Mr. Canton weekly progress reports to assure him that all was well.
Said Sid Ganis, the president of marketing and distribution for Columbia: "I think more and more people understand that Francis is as interested in the financial side of his work as he is in the artistic side."
Mr. Ganis has known the director since he worked for the company that distributed Mr. Coppola's "You're a Big Boy Now," in 1966. More recently, as a Paramount executive, he had firsthand knowledge of the director's working habits on "Tucker: The Man and His Dream" (1988), which Mr. Ganis said was on time and on budget, and "The Godfather, Part III," which was financially successful despite delays brought on by Winona Ryder's last-minute withdrawal from the cast. Even so, "Godfather III" made enough money to allow Mr. Coppola to put aside some savings -- a first, the director said -- and to bail his company, American Zoetrope, out of bankruptcy.
"The truth is I'm pretty good at that," Mr. Coppola maintained on the subject of fiscal responsibility. "They would never hire me a second time if all those stories were true. There aren't a lot of people who can handle big, complicated movies. And I also think they feel that I'm a flexible director, 'cause I can do a comedy or a horror film or a gangster film. So that's my edge that's allowed me to keep going."
Where he wants to go is in the opposite direction from what might be expected. "It's ironic that I would love to work in a much more modest area, one where I can find myself a little better," said the director, who says his fondest wish is to "be like a bohemian, wake up and have my coffee and read the paper and write my notes." His ability to do that any time soon depends on the success of this Dracula film, which, if successful, could finance Mr. Coppola's frequently imperiled American Zoetrope. The film, which has opened in about 2,400 theaters, was always conceived by all concerned as a mass-market entertainment.
Maybe so. But how will Mr. Coppola's intense, romantic, multilayered horror film play to teen-agers at the ten-plex? What will they make of its historical data on everything from turn-of-the-century technology to Vlad the Impaler (Romanian protector of Christian Europe against the Turkish army in 1452)? "God help me!" exclaimed Mr. Coppola, but he still looked cheerful. Asked for a brief characterization of the finished product, he said: "Very authentic to the book. Unusual, a little experimental. For me, fun."
After the relative success of his "Godfather, Part III," Mr. Coppola was contemplating filming a version of Jack Kerouac's "On the Road" when Ms. Ryder asked him to read a "Dracula" screenplay. He had known Bram Stoker's novel from his days as a teen-age camp counselor but was otherwise not on intimate terms with the subject. "To this day, I think that nobody could tell you the second half of the story of Dracula," said Mr. Coppola, who points out that all the many movie versions have thrown out large portions of this 1897 epistolary novel.
He liked James V. Hart's screenplay, decided he was game and was apparently a bit surprised when the studio gave this "Dracula" the go-ahead shortly thereafter. Part of what made the movie sound marketable was the idea of emphasizing the sultry side of the story (Mr. Coppola says he intended part of the film to look "like an erotic dream"). Another part of the plan was to cast the film with attractive young stars, so Ms. Ryder became Mina Murray, the prim young beauty who is the reincarnation of Dracula's lost love.
Cast rather improbably as Jonathan Harker, Mina's English fiance, is Keanu Reeves. "We tried to get some kind of matinee idol for the part of Jonathan, because it isn't such a great part," Mr. Coppola said. "If we all were to go to the airport with Winona and Gary Oldman and I and anyone shy of Tom Cruise, Keanu is the one that the girls would just besiege."
It is Mr. Oldman who plays Dracula, often from under a mountain of makeup and a heart-shaped white hairdo. He looked nothing like this when he stopped by the hotel room to wish Mr. Coppola good luck with the imminent trial by fire. "I hope you like it," Mr. Coppola said twice to his star, who had not yet seen the finished film. "Tonight we're gonna get a beautiful print, and everything is going to be perfect."
Mr. Oldman did not seem apprehensive about being revealed as a nontraditional, nontuxedoed Dracula, appearing in bat mufti and performing one gravity-defying slither in a long, trailing red silk robe. Anticipating a barrage of interview sessions, he said drily, "When they ask me questions, I can say I don't know what the film looks like, but I was there."
Mr. Coppola cast this daring but unlikely actor as Dracula for the same reasons, he said, that he first offered the role of Don Vito Corleone in "The Godfather" to Laurence Olivier: because he wanted the best actor he could find and felt the rest would somehow follow. He made equally offbeat choices for "Dracula" in enlisting Wojciech Kilar, a Polish composer whose work Mr. Coppola felt had a suitably Eastern European feel, and the costume designer Eiko Ishioka, whose museum-worthy designs for the film have become the basis for a coffee-table book. Costumes do not get any more exquisite than this.
Perhaps the director's most audacious choice was to pour much of the film's budget into these costumes and very little into the sets, on the theory that his young actors, the "jewels" of this production, would thus be shown off to best advantage.
Such allocations left little money for special effects, but that was not a problem. The film's many visual tricks are generally achieved inexpensively in the camera itself, through clever reverse images, double exposures and other remarkably quaint methods. The film thus offered not just a homage to the magic of turn-of-century photography but a job opportunity for "my boy Roman," as Mr. Coppola referred to his 27-year-old son, who is the film's visual effects director. Though eye rolling greeted the news that the director would be employing another one of his children (complaints about nepotism dogged his daughter, Sofia, when she replaced Ms. Ryder in "The Godfather, Part III"), Mr. Coppola proudly predicted that his son's work would be well received.
Still, those effects are peculiar, as is so much else about this lavish, busy film. And today's movie audiences have been so encouraged to expect the predictable -- a sequel mentality Mr. Coppola traces in part to his own "Godfather II" -- that they can't be counted on to choose the bow-tie waffle over the square one. "It's like giving unusual food to kids," said Mr. Coppola, about the difficulty in winning general acceptance for anything strange. "Maybe they'll say, 'I don't want to try that.' And maybe years later those same kids will say, 'Oh, I remember when I had that. I loved it.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Francis Ford Coppola -- From sharing waffles to making movies, the director displays a chronic inability to do anything simply. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 15); Gary Oldman as Dracula in "Bram Stoker's Dracula." (Columbia Pictures)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BRAM STOKER'S DRACULA (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); PHILIPPINES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); PHILIPPINES (52%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BUDGETS (78%); MOVIE FILMING (75%); HORROR FILMS (75%); WRITERS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: MASLIN, JANET; COPPOLA, FRANCIS FORD FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



474 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: Charting the Future Of the Waterfront

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
IN subtle ways and sweeping ones -- like a clock face 120 feet wide -- the future of New York City's waterfront will be charted in coming months, even though its actual rebuilding may be many years away.
Prospects for a major renascence in the near future grew much dimmer on Election Day, when voters rejected a bond act that would have authorized New York State to borrow $800 million for public works. Tens of millions of dollars were earmarked for projects along the city's 578-mile shoreline. 
 But the City Planning Department is looking into the next century. In its first comprehensive waterfront plan -- covering bays, beaches, docks, esplanades, factories, housing projects, marinas, marine terminals, marshes, parks, piers, ports, rail yards and wetlands -- the agency identified more than two dozen possible sites for residential redevelopment. It also proposed new zoning rules for these districts, setting caps on building heights, requiring public access through private projects and limiting development rights from underwater lands. These rules must be approved by the City Planning Commission, which is to consider them early next year.
"We've tried to give clear signals on what we believe is appropriate on the waterfront and in what places," said Richard L. Schaffer, director of the City Planning Department and chairman of the City Planning Commission. "We're trying to get away -- by laying out a clear set of regulatory instructions -- from pitched battles over mega-developments on the waterfront."
Even as the rezoning measures are being drafted and debated, a number of projects advanced -- on paper, at least. Stephen Muss's Brighton-by-the-Sea development in Brooklyn won approval from the City Council in September. Donald J. Trump's Riverside South proposal was approved by the City Planning Commission last month and is to be voted on by the Council next month.
Another enormous project, Queens West, on the Hunters Point waterfront, took a small step forward in August, when the state Urban Development Corporation said it would review a proposal by a development team that includes affiliates of the Tekken Construction Company and Tobishima Corporation of Japan, the Dreyfus Corporation and the Zeckendorf Company.
TEN days ago, Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates and Anderson/Schwartz Architects won the competition for a new Staten Island Ferry terminal in Manhattan, a $112 million project by the city's Economic Development Corporation and Transportation Department. Already the talk of the town, the proposal calls for a giant illuminated clock above the ferry slips and a smaller clock as a gateway to Peter Minuit Plaza.
Meanwhile, a lease is being negotiated between the state and an operating company that plans to turn the Chelsea Piers, from 18th to 22d Streets in Manhattan, into a combination marina, skating rink, gymnasium, running track, golf driving range and movie and television studio. The partners in the operating company are Roland W. Betts, Tom A. Bernstein and David A. Tewksbury.
"I think it will be the first beat of the heart, if you will, that we hope will start pumping along the West Side," said Tom Fox, president of the Hudson River Park Conservancy, a subsidiary of the state Urban Development Corporation whose mission is to fulfill a 1990 plan for the West Side waterfront, between Battery Park City and 59th Street.
The plan includes a waterfront park, with an esplanade, public piers, bicycle and pedestrian paths. Along this park would be four major development sites: Pier 40, at Houston Street; the Chelsea Piers; Pier 76, at 36th Street, and Piers 81-84, around 42d Street.
Critics wonder whether development will stop there, however. Marcy Benstock, executive director of the Clear Air Campaign, said, "We remain afraid that if they did succeed in building infrastructure to support development in isolated nodes sticking out into the water, the nodes would be eventually connected and obliterate an environmentally critical stretch of the river."
The Clean Air Campaign, the New York Public Interest Research Group and other civic organizations have filed suit to overturn the formation of the Hudson River Park Conservancy and to halt any implementation of the plan until an environmental impact statement has been prepared.
But Mr. Fox said that it was premature to prepare an impact statement because the plan was still in a "conceptual" stage.
"We have all intentions of complying with all environmental requirements," Mr. Fox said. "We're committed to doing it. We're not trying to get around the process. We're trying to do it in a logical way."
The first parcel over which Mr. Fox's organization is to take control is the right-of-way through the Hudson River, from Battery Park City to 35th Street, where the landfill was to have gone for the Westway highway. But the city and state would have to repay $80 million that the Federal Government spent to acquire the property, unless local officials either obtain a waiver or scale back their riverfront plans significantly.
Another hurdle to development scenarios was the recent defeat of the $800 million bond act. Among the losers was the Harlem waterfront, which was to have benefited from $4.2 million for repair of the bulkhead, roadway improvements and other work.
Donald J. Cogsville, president of the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, said that while there were other encouraging signs, such as the plans by Circle Line to begin operating at 125th Street, the loss of the bond money "really has a huge effect."
"The public improvements that we would have been able to do would have accelerated development of the waterfront," he said.
The president of Circle Line and World Yacht, August J. Ceradini Jr., said the company remained committed to its project and expected to begin offering sightseeing trips and dinner cruises operating from a floating pier at 125th Street by April.
In dollar amounts, one of the biggest losers was a project to stabilize Piers 1 through 5, at the foot of Brooklyn Heights, which was to have received $11 million under the bond act.
These piers command some of the most spectacular views in New York City and a struggle has gone on for years between those who see them as a harborside park and those who imagine their potential as a residential enclave. Last July local officials and community leaders drew up a set of principles to guide development, in what they hoped would be a major step forward.
NOW they are less sure where they stand, since the piers must be shored up before anything else can happen. "The $11 million would have given us a leg up on any future development planning," said Marilyn Gelber, executive assistant to Borough President Howard Golden of Brooklyn. The defeat of the bond act, she said, "doesn't cancel out our plans and dreams, but it makes it more difficult."
Some delays seem to serve the city's purposes. For example, the badly stalled River Walk project on the East River, between 16th and 24th Streets, was officially pronounced dead this year as city officials removed the Related Companies as the developer.
River Walk, a residential and commercial complex, was to have been built on a platform and, Mr. Schaffer said, "We did not believe that it was appropriate to be building new piers or platforms over open water for the purpose of building new apartments or office buildings." However, new piers and platforms would be allowed for water-dependent uses and recreation.
The comprehensive plan pinpoints vacant land and manufacturing districts in which 25,000 to 50,000 housing units might be built, in addition to the 25,000 units in projects already approved. But planners also set aside six areas to be preserved for maritime and industrial use: Brooklyn, from Pier 6 to the Red Hook Containerport and from the Erie Basin to Owls Head; Staten Island, from Howland Hook to Snug Harbor; Port Morris and Hunts Point in the South Bronx; the Queens and Brooklyn shores of Newtown Creek and the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
"We're putting out the word that we want to hold the zoning in these areas," said Wilbur L. Woods, director of waterfront and open space at the planning agency.
In the areas that might be rezoned, planners have proposed limits on building heights, from 110 to 280 feet. They would also require that at least half of a building's total area be packed below a fixed height.
"We wanted to encourage low- to medium-rise buildings, avoiding walling off the waterfront with wide and tall buildings," said Marilyn Mammano, director of zoning and urban design at the planning agency.
In mid- to high-density residential and commercial projects, as well as large low-density residential developments, planners would require that 15 to 20 percent of the open space on the zoning lot be set aside for public access. This space would include a public area at least 40 feet wide running along the shoreline.
To make its case, the planning agency drew contrasting hypothetical buildings at a site overlooking Pot Cove, on the East River in Queens. The example given for existing zoning rules shows high slabs set apart from one another, with little access to the waterfront. The example of proposed zoning shows shorter buildings that cover much more of the property, with an ample esplanade.
As another key part of the zoning proposal, owners of property between the bulkhead line on shore and the pierhead line in the water would no longer be able to shift the development rights from those underwater parcels to their upland development sites, as Mr. Trump would have done for the Television City proposal that preceded his Riverside South plan. Owners would still be permitted, however, to exploit the development rights attributable to existing pier structures.
The public access requirements and the limits on development rights were "enthusiastically" endorsed by the private Parks Council, said the chairwoman of its waterfront committee, Jeannette G. Bamford.
BUT the Real Estate Board of New York said the rules would be crippling.
"The city must recognize that mandating public open space on private property, severely restricting the design of buildings and removing lands that generate floor area all have major implications on the feasibility of any development on the waterfront," said Michael Slattery, senior vice president of the board. "This radical approach is so extremely costly that without an up-front commitment of public funds to secure the public benefits, any development would prove unlikely."
He also took exception to the choice of potential redevelopment areas. "It seems that they went to sites that were noncontroversial or in existence," he said. "One wonders if they pushed harder whether they could have found more sites."
On the other hand, Ms. Benstock said planners created too many development opportunities. She believes that, contrary to their stated purpose, the new rules would encourage -- not discourage -- new piers and platforms, which would be built under the exemption for water-dependent uses and then converted to residential or commercial space.

GRAPHIC: Drawings: The City Planning Department has identified more than two dozen possible sites on the waterfront in all five boroughs for residential redevelopment, map, above. Rendering shows the passenger entry for the new Staten Island Ferry Terminal from Peter Minuit Plaza at the Battery. (Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates and Anderson/Schwartz Architects); Proposed zoning would avoid cutting off the waterfront. Under the change, low-rise apartments with esplanade would rise at Pot Cove in Queens. Current zoning would allow tall slabs with no water access. (ew York City Planning Commission)(pg. 8)
 
Map: "Where Planners See New Residential Opportunities" shows where planners see new residentail opprotunities in New York. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 1805 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (63%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (63%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (63%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (63%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ZECKENDORF CO (63%); DREYFUS CORP (63%); TEKKEN CONSTRUCTION CO LTD (63%); TOBISHIMA CORP (63%); BROWN & ASSOCIATES LLC (51%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY PLANNING COMMISSION CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ZONING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MARINAS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BEACHES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); FERRIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); BONDS (71%); WETLANDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W DONALD TRUMP (79%); SCOTT BROWN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



475 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 10; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	NATIONAL HOUSING TRENDS	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	In thousands of units, seasonally adjusted annual rates)	 	 	 	 		Sept. 92	Sept. 91	Change	Starts	1,256	1,020	+23.1%	Completions	1,121	1,193	- 6.0%	Sales	617	499	+23.6%	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Source: Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.61	8.51	8.92	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.42	5.39	6.58	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.43	8.33	8.81	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.24	5.19	6.48	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.49	8.41	8.81	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.06	5.04	6.48	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.63	8.56	9.05	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.81	5.94	7.07	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	3.58	3.50	5.00	National Mortgage Contract Rate	7.44	7.44	8.93	
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST (MONEY) REAL ESTATE (91%); TRENDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CITIES (74%); CENSUS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



476 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Investments;
Buying Rental Property

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
WITH interest rates lower than they have been for 20 years and foreclosures still glutting the market, could this be a good time to buy rental property?
An informal poll of about a dozen brokers suggests that only a few brave souls agree. But for contrarians willing to take the plunge there's a whole new universe of expectations and strategies compared to the high flying days of the 1980's. 
 Gone are many of the tax incentives and the wild expectations of quick appreciation and the notion that it's possible to consider a relatively short holding period -- say, three to five years. Gone, too, is the expectation that it can all be accomplished with very little upfront cash.
What can make it really worthwhile this time, say those who are investing, is the positive cash flow, or yield.
Either the property can generate a higher return on capital than is currently available from other investments, such as certificates of deposit or stocks, or -- by the time the investor retires or has children going off to college -- the rental income will have grown to the point where it can serve as a pension or a welcome boost to earnings.
This has been the approach of Bob Kirkland of Virginia Beach, Va. He has been buying condominiums whenever he can pick them up at a price that more or less covers his monthly overhead, at least to start out, he said. He uses any profit he can generate to pay off the mortgage as fast as possible.
Thus, by the time he retires he expects the properties to be virtually debt-free and able to provide him with a comfortable pension.
Most of the current breed of savvy investors say it is imperative to become a bottom-fisher. As a protection against a possible further dip even more, "they want something that's not going to drop even farther," said Rita Cohen, president of Prudential Rita Cohen Realty in White Plains.
The potential investor may be well served by seeking out those larger regional estate agencies that sell a substantial number of foreclosed properties. Another good source are real estate agencies that deal heavily in the relocation market. Dozens of corporations, and their representatives, have also been stuck with an unacceptably high number of unsold homes and are better able to accept a low price than are most private sellers.
An even better deal, say investors, is to seek properties that lenders are unwilling to finance under any circumstances -- such as certain New York City co-ops or a condominium in an association that already has a large number of investor-owned units. These have already been marked down to substantially below market as a consequence of their status as pariahs.
But to make it work may mean paying all cash. Yet doing so may not turn out to be that much of a deterrent. Consider Patrick Mitchell of Hamden, Conn., an apprentice with United Technologies. His preference has been for condominium units that have been repossessed by the banks, since he maintains they go for the lowest prices.
To find them, he has developed a close relationship with several lenders in the area that handle a large number of foreclosed properties. Mr. Mitchell has also focused on large, three-bedroom units. Proportionate to the cost, he finds they generate higher rents.
The secret of good bargaining, he says, is being able to walk away ("never fall in love with anything"). He insists he has also learned the value of patience and persistence.
"I start out with a very low offer," he said, "even if I know I will be turned down. But then I wait. And I wait. And I go back with the same offer, sometimes months later."
Using this approach, and with help from his family, he has bought three three-bedroom condominiums in a modest-income neighborhood in Hamden for under $30,000 each over the last six months. Being able to offer all cash was definitely an advantage, he maintained.
INDEED, certain units eventually sell for such rock bottom prices because of the reluctance of lenders to provide financing. Though most lenders maintain they are willing to make loans on virtually any property, their strict criteria end up excluding not only many of the units but also the bulk of the potential buyers, too.
Today, most lenders require a down payment of at least 30 percent for an investor loan, said Paul Havemann, vice president of HSH Associates of Butler, N.J., a company that monitors lending policies nationwide. They also charge a higher interest rate and more points than for a property being occupied by the owner.
Take Arbor National Mortgage of Westbury, L.I. It requires investors to put down a minimum of 30 percent and pay an extra 1.5 percent in points. It has a loan limit of $202,300 on one-family homes and $388,800 on a four-family. No co-ops are allowed. Similarly, the Dime Savings Bank of New York will not lend on a condominium if more than 50 percent of the units in the complex are already owned by investors.
At Arbor, the borrower's income is also being tightly scrutinized to see how much of the debt load the person could carry, irrespective of the rental income. And approval is taking twice as long as a loan for a personal residence, or about six to eight weeks.
Even so, a lender who may have been holding a property in inventory, following a foreclosure, might be persuaded to offer slightly more attractive terms just to get the property off its list of nonperforming loans. So you should always attempt to negotiate better terms, said Mr. Havemann.
Even accepting those terms may not be all that bad. Anthony Girardi, an ophthamologist in Glen Cove, L.I., is using one of these kinds of investor loans to buy a two-family house in Lynbrook, L.I., lessening the burden by going into partnership with his brother and doing the repairs himself.
Though it will mean that the brothers will not have a positive cash flow at first, he said, they will not be generating a loss. Moreover, they are buying for the long term, he added, in an area where they believe values have bottomed out and rentals are strong and on the rise.
But he said they were careful to take out a 15-year loan so his mortgage will be paid off by the time his children are ready for college. At that point, he said, the brothers plan plan either to use the income to help pay tuition or refinance the property and use the money thus freed for their tuition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); VIRGINIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); VIRGINIA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; INTEREST (MONEY); RENTING AND LEASING; FORECLOSURES RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (86%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); CHILDREN (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); CASH FLOW (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE RITA COHEN (63%); PATRICK MITCHELL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



477 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 10; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Horticulture Gaining as a Career Option

BYLINE: By ELISABETH GINSBURG

 BODY:
TWO years ago, Carole Anderson of Florham Park was a travel agent. Elizabeth Staley of Morristown was a housewife who spent every spare moment in her garden. Now both are studying for two-year degrees in landscape design.
When she is not in class, Ms. Staley works as an assistant horticulturalist at a large garden center, and Ms. Anderson has already begun as a consultant on residential landscaping projects. Both are eager to move ahead into their new lives. "I want to get out and do this now," Ms. Anderson said. 
 The two women are part of a green wave -- people who have turned their backs on established careers or redirected their lives to enter the world of horticulture. Many are women, and what makes them different from other career changers is the emotional satisfaction they derive from their new lives.
By turning a hobby into a vocation, these new horticulturists have found a calling. "This is something I can do until I'm 90 years old," said Barbara J. Palmer, a journalist turned landscape designer.
Even in the midst of a recession, these career changers are finding jobs. Many students in the landscape management and design and agribusiness programs at the County College of Morris receive job offers before they finish their courses. Maureen Heffernan of the American Horticultural Society's garden information service described a nationwide shortage of horticulturalists and said, "If you have a B.S. in horticulture, the jobs are there."
 
More Than Growing Flowers
 Even fields like landscape architecture and the commercial nursery business, which have suffered along with the construction industry, may soon see a resurgence. The Federal Department of Labor has identified landscape architecture as a growth area for the 90's.
As a vocation, horticulture is an umbrella term covering fields like landscape architecture, agriculture, environmental work and gardening as therapy. The variety of educational programs that prepare students for these careers is equally wide. Two-year institutions like the County College of Morris and Cumberland County College offer degrees in "green" subject areas like agribusiness and landscape design.
Career changers lacking the time or inclination to earn a degree can enter certain fields by taking specific courses at the two-year schools or by earning certificates at institutions like the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. Other horticultural career fields require four-year degrees or graduate work.
Cook College at Rutgers University is the only accredited college in the state that offers degrees in landscape architecture. Students at Ramapo College of New Jersey can earn a bachelor's degree in biology with an emphasis on plant science.
Adults are entering these institutions in significant numbers. Prof. Phillip Edgecombe of the County College of Morris says that the total enrollment in its horticultural courses has almost doubled over the last five years, to about 100 students. About 40 current students at the college are career changers over 30 years old, and 25 of those are women.
Last year, New Jersey residents accounted for about 14 percent of the New York Botanical Garden's 6,000 registrations. Susan Greenstein of the garden's adult education department said most registrants were probably career changers.
At Cumberland County College, which had a record enrollment of 43 day or evening students in horticultural subjects in 1990, 7 of the 12 students now taking the required fundamentals of horticulture course have come from other career fields. In Rutgers's landscape architecture program, 10 to 15 percent of the students are what Prof. Roy Deboer calls "second degree people."
In some cases, it is possible to start a horticultural career without going near an ivy-covered wall.
Two years ago, John Horwath of Wallington was a self-employed commodities broker caught in the general economic slump. His cousin was dating a landscaping contractor, and Mr. Horwath asked if the landscaper had any openings.
Now, with 24 months' experience, the Wallington man is the foreman of a landscape construction crew that is making a park and wildlife habitat out of a former landfill in the Hackensack Meadowlands.
Though he has taken a 75 percent pay cut, Mr. Horwath said the healthy outdoor life "gets into your blood after a while." When the economy improves, he said, he may even combine his old and new careers, installing greenery by day while trading commodities at night.
Career changers sometimes find permanent jobs through on-the-job training, which some institutions also require as part of a degree program. Barry Yinger, superintendent of horticultural services for the Somerset County Park Department, called such hands-on experience "an excellent way to enter the horticultural field." Students who have done field work have an edge in the job market, because they have a proven track record, Professor Edgecombe said.
Pay for on-the-job training is usually low (from $4.25 an hour, the minimum wage, to $8 an hour). Also, because of budget cutbacks, New Jersey horticulture students may have trouble finding such jobs in public parks and gardens and state-supported institutions.
Joanne DiLorenzo, a landscape architect with the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission who apprenticed at the commission, said, "If we had money, we would always have a trainee, but right now, finances are terrible."
Mr. Yinger said his Somerset County department offered four paid training jobs last summer, but he was unable to say whether any would be available in 1993. For those with other sources of income, Mr. Yinger noted that unpaid apprenticeships are always an option.
Why do people abandon steady paychecks for a return to the classroom, a low-paying or volunteer apprenticeship and a future full of dirty fingernails?
"I was burned out," said Ms. Palmer of Maplewood, the former journalist. Trying to balance her family's needs with the demands of freelance writing at home ended up being unworkable for Ms. Palmer. Now, with certificates in commercial horticulture and landscape design from the New York Botanical Garden, she runs a landscape consulting business, writes a garden column for a local newspaper chain and teaches gardening at a local adult school.
Many career changers, like Ms. Staley, began as recreational gardeners. Ms. Anderson and her County College of Morris classmate, Pat Mills of Long Valley, also worked on volunteer projects in their hometowns. Ms. Mills, an art historian and housewife, was working with her town's shade tree committee when she first looked through the trees and saw a forest of career possibilities.
Some career changes come to horticulture looking for the freedom and flexibilty of self-employment. Others, like Ms. DiLorenzo, a former computer software designer, fell into various occupations after high school or college. With years of work and life experience behind them, many are ready to make a living at something closer to the heart.
Women making the change also have more role models now than in years past. All three landscape architects at the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission are women. The enthusiastic women in the County College of Morris program are taught by an equally enthusiastic associate professor, Jan-Marie Traynor.
Nine of New Jersey's 28 individual members of the American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta are women. Women also hold top executive positions at seven of the nine New Jersey institutions belonging to that group.
 
Seen as a Lasting Trend
 It is possible that horticulture will be to the 90's what financial services were to the 80's -- a hot career field -- but New Jersey experts think the trend will be more lasting.
Dr. Joseph Dallon, professor of biology at Ramapo College, says that when people become fully aware of the possibilities in horticulture, the field will become even more attractive. Students looking for the ultimate creative act can take part in saving endangered plant species by culturing tissue from a lone surviving plant. Landscape architects like Ms. DiLorenzo can work environmental alchemy by transforming landfills into wildlife habitats.
Rhonda Daidone of Netcong is typical of many of the career changers who have found a sense of vitality and renewal in their new occupations. After surviving two bouts with Hodgkin's disease, the former American Telephone and Telegraph Company employee is studying horticulture with the goal of working for the Environmental Protection Agency.
She spoke for more than one of her green colleagues when she said, "Horticulture definitely helps keep you healthy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the County College of Morris, Jan-Marie Traynor, below at right, taught students of landscape design how to prune, above, and prepare a preformed concrete wall system. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNTY COLLEGE OF MORRIS (NJ) AMERICAN HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNTY COLLEGE OF MORRIS (NJ) AMERICAN HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR EMPLOYMENT (91%); HORTICULTURE (91%); GARDENING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (89%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (78%); BOTANY (78%); ACCREDITATION (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); CROP RESEARCH (74%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); AGRONOMY (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: GINSBURG, ELISABETH ESTELLE MORRIS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



478 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Port Chester Seeks An Earlier Last Call

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER

 BODY:
AT 2:10 A.M., traffic inches south on Route 1 heading into this village on the border with Connecticut. Just 15 minutes earlier, "Last call" had been issued in bars throughout Connecticut, and now hundreds of cars were joining the Sunday morning exodus to Westchester, where bars remain open until 4 A.M. On summer nights and during holidays, the police say they have often counted more than 2,000 cars coming down Route 1.
These young, affluent residents of Stamford and Greenwich are heading for places like Marty's, the Beat and 7 Willow Street, already filled with Westchester County residents. In 7 Willow Street, which throbs to the melodic funk sound of the Groove Tubes, strobe lights sweep over a bar dispensing Jell-O shots, a mix of vodka and Jell-O. A barmaid here, wearing a skin-tight outfit revealing her midriff, pours Jack Daniels over a three-foot-long "ski bar," or slide, made of ice. Patrons waiting with cups below receive a whisky slush.
 
Like Fort Lauderdale in Spring
 But now, the village that claims both the highest number of bars and the most drunken driving arrests per capita in the county wants to call a halt to the party scene, which the police say has turned downtown Port Chester into a scene reminiscent of spring break in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
 In a move led by Mayor Peter Iasillo and unanimously endorsed by the village's six trustees, Port Chester has proposed that all Westchester municipalities require bars to close at 2 A.M., thus matching Connecticut's closing hour. Under state law, bar hours must be uniform in each county, and although bar owners may close as early as they want, individual municipalities do not have the power to set their own bar hours.
Since the proposal was announced last June, it has been endorsed by 13 municipalities, and several other communities have scheduled hearings, including one next week in Hastings-on-Hudson. Communities already in support include Larchmont, Pelham, Pelham Manor, Lewisboro, the village of Mamaroneck, the town of Mamaroneck, Somers, Rye Brook, Bedford, Tarrytown, North Tarrytown and New Rochelle.
 
Municipal and County Support
 The movement appears to be gaining momentum, and municipal officials and tavern owners are scheduled to meet next week with the Housing and Community Affairs Committee of the Westchester Board of Legislators to discuss the issue. Legislators Audrey G. Hochberg and Martin L. Rogowsky, both Democrats, have co-sponsored a resolution calling on the Board to support Port Chester's effort. The measure has already received strong support from the Board's chairman, Stephen P. Tenore, and Katherine S. Carsky, both Republicans.
But municipal and county pressure is unlikely to get bar hours changed. Under state law, any decision to change bar hours in Westchester requires the unanimous consent of the local Alcohol Beverage Control Board, the body that issues and renews liquor licenses on behalf of the State Liquor Authority. One of the two commissioners on that board has already commented unfavorably on the proposal.
"Drunk driving is not controlled by closing two hours earlier," said Thomas G. McSpedon, the Democratic representative appointed by the New York State Liquor Authority. Calling Port Chester's problem "a local issue which police should handle," Mr. McSpedon said the board planned a public hearing on the matter shortly. "I'm keeping an open mind," he said.
 
Reduced Hours Would Hurt Business
 Mr. McSpedon, the retired chapter manager of the Westchester County National Electrical Contractors Association, is completing his 15th year on the board. He said the issue had been reviewed in 1985, prompted by problems in New Rochelle. He opposed any change at that time, Mr. McSpedon said, adding that tavern owners had argued that reduced hours would force many out of business.
Support for the Port Chester proposal is "a minority viewpoint," Mr. McSpedon said, adding that the county's southern cities, other than New Rochelle, are reluctant to support a plan that would encourage young residents to go to New York City to drink. "This is not a countywide problem," he said. "Why penalize everyone?"
John Nanna, former Mayor of Dobbs Ferry, is the Republican appointed to the Commission by Westchester County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke. "We understand community concern," he said, adding that he wondered if an earlier closing "would drive our young people to New York City." He has not made up his mind on the issue, Mr. Nanna said, adding, "Both of us are flexible."
With 30 bars concentrated in the heart of this village of 24,750, Port Chester has long attracted youthful partygoers from Connecticut and Westchester, especially in the days when the drinking age in New York was 18 while Connecticut's legal drinking age was 21. The overcrowded bar scene made national headlines in 1973 when 24 patrons died in a fire at Gulliver's, a popular night spot
But a recent crop of new establishments catering to an even younger crowd has produced problems that residents, merchants and Mayor Iasillo agree cannot be ignored. "They come out of these places in a drunken stupor, rip branches off the trees, urinate in front of our retail shops and destroy property," Mr. Iasillo said. "Our retail merchants are rightfully outraged."
 
From as Far Away as Hartford
 While he is mindful of the impact on tavern owners who are providing needed economic stimulus to the village, Mr. Iasillo said: "They say 2 to 4 A.M. is when they make all their money. I may agree, but they don't understand 2 to 4 A.M. is when we have all our problems."
Port Chester police made 210 arrests for drunken driving during the first six months of this year, with 164 arrests being made after 3 A.M., said the Police Chief, Carl P. Verrastro. Half of those arrested were between the ages of 21 and 29, and half drove cars with out-of-state licenses, some from as far away as Hartford and New Haven.
Because the village police department does not have the manpower to run sobriety checkpoints, most of those were arrested, Chief Verrastro said, "because we bump into them on the street" or because they are involved in automobile accidents.
The large number of arrests has "crippled our court system," Chief Verrastro said, forcing overworked judges to accept an unusually high number of plea bargains. Pleading to a lesser charge of "driving while ability is impaired," he said, is "less than a misdemeanor," a plea that can be entered an unlimited number of times. A second charge of driving while intoxicated can be treated as a felony.
"Some of these kids have rap sheets eight feet long," Chief Verrastro said, adding that he sympathizes with judges. "A village court should not have a court calendar with 100 cases a day," he said, adding, "How can the court properly dispense justice under these conditions? This is not the way suburban Westchester is supposed to be."
The police chief could find just as many drunken drivers leaving a wedding, said Martin Kasmarsky, the owner of Marty's on Adee Street. "He should sit in front of a place where they are having a reception, and he would get just as many D.W.I.'s," Mr. Kasmarsky said, adding that he doubts that police statistics on the amount of traffic coming to Port Chester are accurate.
"I don't see a huge influx after 2 A.M.," Mr. Kasmarsky said, adding that although he doesn't depend on the last two hours, "it makes a difference." Reducing hours, he said, will have a domino effect on Port Chester's economy, throwing area musicians and late-night restaurants out of business.
Port Chester's current problems are caused by a few "badly managed places that are giving the rest of us a bad name," Mr. Kasmarsky said, adding that recent state cutbacks have prevented the Alcohol Control Board from timely enforcement of drinking laws in those establishments.
The village has "two categories of bars," said another owner, who refused to give his name. "If I let people do what they wanted, I'd make a lot more," he said, adding, "There's a lot of money to be made, especially if I.D.'s aren't checked and if drug dealing is going on."
If such places exist, they are few in number, said Scott Wexler, executive director of the United Restaurant, Hotel, Tavern Association of New York State, which represents 2,000 members, including 250 in Westchester. "One or two bad places," he said, "make problems for all," adding that his association has lobbied for more money for enforcement.
"We are adamantly opposed to the 2 A.M. closing hour," Mr. Wexler said, adding that better enforcement procedures would separate "the good guys from the bad." "We should focus on the specific problem and reject greater restrictions on the entire industry," Mr. Wexler said.
Imposing more restricted bar hours in Westchester, he said, won't solve the county's border-crossing problem, Mr. Wexler said. "If we change to 2 A.M., we will just move the problem to New York City. Closing earlier won't change the behavior of people -- it will only change the time in which they behave that way."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The scene at 7 Willow Street in Port Chester. The village, claiming both the highest number of bars and the most drunken-driving arrests per capita in the county, now wants to reduce the influx of out-of-state partyers (pg. 1); George Murray, left, bar manager at 7 Willow Street in Port Chester. The mayor wants bars in village to close by 2 A.M. (pg. 16) (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PORT CHESTER (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); COUNTIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA THOMAS G MCSPEDON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



479 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Small Stocks Are Loved, but For How Long?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Stock prices in America have been surging upward since bottoming this summer, and to some it looks as though the bull market is back.
To those who focus on the Dow Jones industrial average, the above statement looks downright absurd. Rarely has the action on the Dow seemed more boring than it has in recent months, and 1992 is bidding to be the year with the smallest moves in that index of any since World War II. 
 But in the wild land of small stocks, the speculative juices have again started to flow. The Nasdaq composite index is up 16 percent since it hit bottom on June 26. Over the same stretch, the Dow is off a bit. Nasdaq daily volume often exceeds turnover on the New York Stock Exchange, and on Wednesday 273 million shares were traded in the over-the-counter market. That is the highest level in years, and not far from the record of 288 million set during the 1987 crash.
"Everyone knows that small stocks are the place to be," commented Robert Farrell, the chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch and a man who feels nervous when he sees such unanimity of opinion.
Wall Street is always good at explaining moves after they occur, and there are plenty of reasons offered for this one. Bill Clinton's election is one. "In both 1960 and 1976, Democrats replaced Republicans in the White House," noted Robert B. Ritter, a technical analyst at Ladenburg, Thalman. "Both times, small growth stocks did very well."
It is not clear why Bill Clinton should be good news for small stocks. His election may eventually break the Congressional logjam and allow the capital gains tax rate to be reduced, but he has shown more sympathy for investors who start companies than for those who buy shares in public trading.
Others say that with European economies weak and a trade war looming, it is a good time to avoid larger stocks, which are more likely to have international operations.
One clear factor was the negative sentiment of recent months. Money managers let cash build up in aggressive growth mutual funds, and short-sellers borrowed a record number of shares traded on Nasdaq, each betting that prices would soon be lower. Both groups have scrambled for cover, helping to push prices up.
The move has not been universal. Industrial stocks have lagged, but high-technology stocks and those that have growth stories to tell have been leaping. And enthusiasm is growing, with hopes that buyers will seek to take advantage of the so-called January effect, which calls for small stocks to soar early in the new year.
"Secretaries, friends and relatives are calling and asking what my favorite idea is, and how much I think it will rise in the next several months," said Kurt Feuerman, who watches emerging growth stocks for Morgan Stanley. But valuations for quality growth stocks are now very high, he said, and last week he recommended that investors in such stocks take some profits.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Drops 7.03 to 3,233.03," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, Nov. 6-13, 1992; "Small Stocks Have Risen," tracks Nasdaq Composite Index, June 5-Nov. 13, 1992; "Cash Lewvels Rose in Mutual Funds," Jan-Sept. 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; OVER-THE-COUNTER TRADING; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TAX LAW (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



480 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2581 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the PC: Apple's Promised Land

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: CUPERTINO, Calif.

 BODY:
JOHN SCULLEY wants to become the apostle of the information age. From Japan to Hollywood to Germany, the chairman of Apple Computer Inc. has been preaching about a post-industrial promised land where four giant industries -- computers, consumer electronics, communications and information -- will converge. Picture an affordable electronic personal assistant that fits in your hand and works anywhere. It not only has all the functions of a computer -- calculating, word processing and tapping into data bases anywhere in the world -- but also acts as a television, telephone, note taker (you can use a pen or your voice), fax machine, mailbox, appointment calendar and even a sketch pad for artists and designers.
Cerebral and soft-spoken, sounding more like a college professor than an evangelist, Mr. Sculley describes an emerging industry that he says will be a $3.5 trillion business within a decade. It will, he says, be more than half as large as the combined economies of the United States, Canada and Mexico are today. 
 Instead of fire and brimstone, Mr. Sculley uses technology to dazzle his audiences. He surrounds himself with tools he says will make Apple the company that defines this emerging industry. There is a prototype of the first generation of the electronic assistant. There is Powerbook, Apple's hot-selling four- to seven-pound portable computer that next year will offer telecommunications features (answering phone calls and storing messages). There is the new Macintosh that can now play movies and music as well as display text, and combine the different media in educational and entertaining presentations.
"We're on the threshold," he tells his listeners.
 
The Risks Ahead
 It is a vision that leaves some industry people skeptical. Here, after all, is a man who was trained as an architect and made his name selling soft drinks. They wonder: Will he create an unwieldy conglomeration of divisions that end up stealing business from each other, as happened at I.B.M. and Digital Equipment, or that stretch the company too thin, as happened at Sun Microsystems before it refocused itself? And, they wonder, will Apple's coming products really reach Mr. Sculley's goal? Will the company persuade enough software developers to accept its vision, as it did with the Macintosh eight years ago?
Finally, will Apple lose this market to other tough competitors, including Microsoft, the company whose software gives computers the same functions that the Apple Macintoshes do and that has proven adept at imitating each Apple innovation and then capturing most of the market.
Indeed, the Cupertino, Calif., company's stock sells at a price-to-earnings ratio of just 12.9, far below rival Compaq's 18.7 and Dell's 20.2, partly because many investors think the company will not be able to differentiate itself enough from others to maintain comfortable margins.
"What they're doing is unbelievably gutsy," said Paul Saffo, a consultant at the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif. "The PC industry is dead and the only thing you can do is aggressively cross the chasm into the next world. But Apple could have the right vision and still fail."
Nevertheless, Mr. Sculley, who was ridiculed upon taking the title of Apple's chief technology officer two years ago, is being taken a lot more seriously now. His success recently in turning around Apple has made him hard to ignore.
Surprising many industry executives who thought the company could not survive the brutal personal-computer price wars, he has overseen a comeback so strong that this year Apple will pass I.B.M. to become the market-share leader in the United States PC industry.
Apple's Powerbook line of notebook PC's, introduced just a year ago, has become the hottest product in the industry; sales have already exceeded $1 billion. Apple now leads the notebook market in the United States, making inroads in corporate America, where the company had never succeeded. And after steep price cuts in the past two years, sales of the desktop Macintosh have taken off.
While Apple's gross profit margins -- revenue minus cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue -- have been slashed from the mid-50 percent level two years ago to just over 40 percent in recent quarters because of the price cutting, Apple's unique Macintosh software has helped it avoid the worst of the PC industry price wars, where margins for competitors like Compaq and Dell have plunged below 30 percent.
Holding employment at just below 15,000, Apple has added almost $2 billion in revenue in three years, to $7.08 billion in the year that ended Sept. 25. And Apple is now sitting on $1.5 billion in cash.
Finally, Apple appears at last to be building a management team that can function without turmoil. In particular, Mr. Sculley has established a strong partnership with Michael Spindler, Apple's president and chief operating officer.
 
A View of the 90's
 But Mr. Sculley has only just begun. At the age of 53, nearing the end of a full decade at Apple, he has been widely reported to be a candidate for a post in President-elect Bill Clinton's Administration. In fact, Mr. Sculley was briefly considered for the Vice Presidential position on the Democratic ticket.
Mr. Sculley, however, says he has no interest in politics -- the Vice Presidential talk was "ridiculous," he said -- and focuses instead on his vision for Apple. The marketing wizard who oversaw the resurrection of the Pepsi Generation is now doing the same for coming generations of Apples.
Looking into the later 1990's, Mr. Sculley paints a picture of winners and losers very different from those in the past decade. He sees the personal computer industry no longer growing rapidly, and thinks the next generations of machines will be so versatile that people will think of them not as computers but as appliances.
Once the company has an electronic umbilical cord to its customers, it can generate additional revenue by offering telecommunications services like travel information, home-shopping services and a variety of business services like electronic mail. It is a logic understood by A.T.&T., which Mr. Sculley thinks is well positioned to capitalize on the coming together of the computing, telecommunications, consumer electronics and information fields. (A.T.&T.'s plans, page 5.)
With this in mind, Mr. Sculley is changing Apple Computer from a company with a single focus on desktop computing to a cluster of related businesses. "We believe that we will be an entirely different kind of company in two years," he said.
The resulting Apple Computer will be selling from three principal divisions. One is the current Macintosh Systems division. The second, whose products will begin appearing this winter, is Enterprise Systems, selling more powerful computers known as servers that effectively replace mainframes in performing company-wide computing. The third is the Personal Interactive Electronics division, also known as Apple PIE, which will produce portable products, starting in the middle of next year with the Newton.
Mr. Sculley describes Newton as a personal digital assistant. Selling for what analysts expect will be between $700 and $1,000, it is a palm-sized electronic calendar and organizer into which notes can be entered using a stylus and from which facsimiles can be sent and received. Later in 1993, Apple expects to introduce a wireless version of the Newton.
Apple PIE is working on two other kinds of products. One is multimedia products, about which the company has said little, that will allow the viewing of entertainment and educational programs. The other is data services that will allow Macintosh users to tap various Apple data bases and to shop through electronic catalogues. The idea is that Apple will derive significant revenues from services providing information.
Apple executives say they realize that the new strategy will succeed only to the degree that the company can do a better job of making its products from its three divisions easier to use and better at communicating with each other than those of rivals.
The risk, said Jonathan Seybold, an industry consultant and publisher, is that Apple awaits the fate of almost all the computer companies that have attempted to make the jump from one generation of technology to the next. They have either lost their focus trying to sustain a variety of incompatible systems or have been unwilling to let the new generation cannibalize sales of the earlier one. During the 1960's, mainframe companies failed to become minicomputer makers; in the 1980's, minicomputer companies were overwhelmed by the rise of the personal computer. Only I.B.M. has been able to span generational changes in technology, and now even the world's largest computer maker appears to be foundering on the rapid developments brought about by the computer-on-a-chip called the microprocessor.
Apple "may wind up trying to ride two horses," said Mark Stahlman, an industry consultant at New Media Associates in New York City. "The problem they face is controlling both horses so they don't fall off or lose control of either or both."
Furthermore, Apple could face confusion and disappointment with its coming products. For example, after announcing its new hand-held machines, including the Newton, at the giant consumer electronics shows in January and May, the company now realizes that it created confusion in its choice of consumer shows for the unveilings. The choice led to expectations in the industry that Apple was pressing to build consumer electronics products that would sell for under $500 and show up under the Christmas tree.
But in September Mr. Sculley told industry executives that Apple had no intention of entering consumer electronics markets with its electronic assistants just yet. The shift led to consternation among Apple watchers, many of whom concluded that the company had decided it had promised too much with the Newton and was now backpedaling.
Although Apple has licensed its Newton technology to two Japanese consumer electronics giants (Toshiba and Sharp), and despite the forum that Apple chose for the Newton announcement, Mr. Sculley insists the company intends to target its first Newtons at the business market.
 
Possible Misjudgment
 But three factors -- the confusing shift in strategy, a delay in introduction (the first Newton was originally scheduled to be available early next year, rather than mid-year) and the possibility that the product might not perform well enough or have enough features to attract a large market -- have led some executives in the industry to suggest that Apple has misjudged the difficulties of expanding beyond the PC market.
"To me it's a bust," said Daniel Farber, editor of PC Week, a weekly computer industry magazine. "They rolled it out too soon and it's just going to be an electronic note taker. That's not going to satisfy anyone."
Finally, Apple faces the challenge of creating an environment that encourages other companies to endorse its vision. It succeeded at that when it introduced the Macintosh in 1984, encouraging software developers to write programs for its new machines.
This time, there is a debate within and outside Apple over how accessible to make Apple PIE products like the Newton to other developers whose support will be crucial to their success. Mr. Sculley knows that to succeed such products will require many kinds of attractively priced software, like electronic books, interactive videos and digital reference materials.
Indeed, Mr. Sculley has been spending time in Hollywood, looking for deals with entertainment companies. Michael Ovitz, chairman of the Creative Artists Agency, is a friend who spends time with Mr. Sculley discussing the coming transformation. "We both know that we're on an inevitable course of computing moving toward the entertainment business, and entertainment moving toward computing," Mr. Sculley said.
But Apple has not had an easy time persuading traditional publishers to ally themselves with the Newton effort. Not only are publishers still timid about the risks of new electronic media -- including potential piracy problems -- they are increasingly concerned that Apple will jump into the publishing business itself, competing with them.
The recent arrival of Gaston Bastiaens, who left Philips to head the Apple PIE division last summer, has evidently extended the controversy to Apple itself. He has reportedly pressed the notion of owning entertainment and information software.
Mr. Bastiaens was not available for comment, but several people inside and outside the company said he has argued for a strategy similar to Philips's and Nintendo's, under which the computer maker would largely control the content for Newtons.
 
Controlling the Content
 Mr. Sculley said Apple may not need to own such content but should play a role in its packaging and presentation.
Some multimedia experts say such a strategy could backfire.
"I think it would be a gigantic mistake for Apple to attempt to control content," said Denise Caruso, editor of Digital Media, a San Francisco-based industry newsletter. "It could drive the publishers out of digital media completely, or even worse, it will drive them right up to Microsoft," which is trying to build a similar business on top of its Windows software.
Mr. Sculley agrees that there will be much uncertainty and even chaos as his industry changes. But he says Apple, more than almost any other company, will be able to gain in this environment. He cites its recent success against price-warring rivals.
"The best thing that ever happened to Apple," he said, "is the crisis in the computer industry."
 
 
 
SCULLEY COMES INTO HIS OWN
 APPLE COMPUTER, at about $7 billion in revenue, has reached the size that Pepsico was when John Sculley left that company almost a decade ago. It is a size, Mr. Sculley says, that enables him to do a lot more of what he's good at.
"I'm starting to have the impact on this company that a C.E.O. should have," he said. "During the 1980's, I would have never thought of putting the kinds of management structure in place that I am now."
Mr. Sculley has brought in veteran managers, implemented a standard development process for every Apple product, and pushed autonomy downward by giving lower-level managers budget responsibility.
Evidence that Apple's new organizational structure is delivering was best seen earlier this year in the company's ability to quickly develop an unplanned version of its Macintosh LC for the educational market on just five months' notice. The machine, the LC II, has sold more than 460,000 units at about $1,500 each since its introduction last spring.
There's another way that Apple may just now be becoming the kind of company that its co-founder, Steve Jobs, hired Mr. Sculley to run. "I was hired because the belief was that Apple was going to be a home computer company," Mr. Sculley said. But once he arrived the company found there was no home market. Apple instead scrambled to grow in the education and small-business markets. "I was incredibly unprepared," he said.
Today, Apple is finally ready to enter the home market. In October alone, Apple doubled the number of retail outlets through which it sells, to 4,000 from 2,000, and the company says its home-targeted Performa machine is selling strongly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Sculley and friends, including the hot Powerbook portable computer. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "Apple Leads the PC Market ..." tracks shares of the makret for desktop and notebook computers, for Apple, I.B.M. and Compaq, 1988-1992 (1992, full year estimate); "... Especially In Emerging Segments ..." shows shares of notebook computer market, for Compaq, I.B.M. and Apple, 1989-1992 (1992, full year estimates); "... With Steady, High Margins," tracks gross profit margin (revenues minus the cost of goods, expressed as a percentage of revenue), for the most recent five quarters, 3rd qtr 1991-3rd qtr. 1992 (Source: First Boston) (pg. 10)
 
Diagram: "Apple in the 21sr Century," shows divisions producing current and future Apple products. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP APPLE INC (98%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: SCULLY, JOHN; MARKOFF, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



481 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: An Economy That Will Test Clinton's Pledge on Jobs

BYLINE: By JOEL KURTZMAN

 BODY:
It sounded like a promise from the campaign stump. President-elect Bill Clinton told a news conference last week that "I will ask the Congress to adopt an investment tax credit that I have been advocating for well over a year now to give the private sector incentives to go out and invest in new plant and equipment and to increase their capacity to hire." That one proposal, Mr. Clinton said, could create half a million new jobs in the first year alone. Even more jobs could be created, he said, by accelerating investment in the infrastructure.
At first blush the logic seems straightforward enough: tax credits from Washington create incentives for entrepreneurs to start companies and hire workers and for existing companies to buy equipment. Spending on the infrastructure leads to more hiring. The unemployment rate -- now 7.4 percent -- falls as more people find work. 
 But economists caution that creating a new-jobs bonanza in a sluggish economy -- even with the use of incentives -- may not be as easy as Mr. Clinton suggests. Economists further warn that the incentives Mr. Clinton has proposed -- an investment tax credit for businesses, increased government spending and tax credits for education and training, and $20 billion a year over four years in spending on the infrastructure -- may simply not be enough to perk up a sagging $6 trillion economy. And with the economy awash in debt and consumers watching their wallets, the incentives may not be sufficient to jog budding entrepreneurs into action. "The animal spirits of the entrepreneurs are very damp right now," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at the Boston Company.
Further, because much of the money Mr. Clinton has proposed to stimulate the economy and provide jobs will be taken from other programs -- the military, principally -- rather than from new sources of revenue, the impact on growth from the spending may be minimal. "Clinton's program was the most growth oriented of the candidates', but it's not a big macro event," Mr. Sinai said.
That may pose problems for Mr. Clinton on the employment front. Economic growth, economists say, is the main engine behind job creation. "If the economy is growing rapidly it is going to create a certain amount of new employment anyway," said Bennett Harrison, professor of political economy at Carnegie Mellon University. "That's what Reagan had. You can build on that base. But the problem Clinton faces is that with the continuing long-term sluggishness of the economy, there's no base on which to build."
Mr. Clinton also faces an economy in which one major employment sector -- the military and its suppliers -- is cutting back drastically. According to estimates by Lawrence Chimerine, senior economic adviser to DRI/ McGraw Hill, more than a million jobs could be eliminated from the military and its suppliers alone by mid-decade. If those jobs are not replaced by new jobs in other sectors, they could add as much as a percentage point to the unemployment rate.
But the military is not Mr. Clinton's only problem area. He must also contend with the continued shrinking of many of America's largest corporations. "Layoffs at the Fortune 500 companies have slowed, but they haven't bottomed out and in some sectors they will go on for years," Mr. Chimerine said.
The weakness of the economy has already had a chilling effect on hiring. In the ebullient 1980's, "the economy was a prodigious job-creating machine, creating 19 million new jobs, almost two million a year," said Samuel Ehrenhalt, a regional Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But from October 1991 through last month, "only 150,000 jobs were created in the economy as a whole, and in the private sector, zero were created."
In every job category except health care, according to Mr. Sinai, job creation has been below average for post-recessionary periods. Employment in construction, retailing, manufacturing and the military are all down. And while the employment ranks have been expanding somewhat, "virtually all of the job growth in the last 17 months can be accounted for by temps," Mr. Sinai said. While some people choose to be temporary workers, most would rather work full time, he said.
With this grim backdrop, some economists are arguing for a deficit-be-damned approach of more spending early on in the Clinton Administration. During the campaign, the Harvard economist Robert B. Reich, now assistant director for economic policy in the Clinton transition team, argued for what he called "frontloading" -- spending more than the $20 billion earmarked for infrastructure investment in the first year of the Administration. Mr. Clinton, in his remarks last week, indicated that some spending programs could be accelerated.
Other economists agree with the fix-the-deficit-later approach. "If the economy flattens to no growth, I would advocate a $50 billion stimulus package," Mr. Sinai said. "If the economy were growing in the 2 percent to 3 percent range, then they could proceed with the program," he said.
While spending on the infrastructure is a pump primer for business, using tax incentives to create jobs comes with a caveat. Most of those incentives won't really affect the entrepreneur, economists say, and it is the nation's entrepreneurs who create the jobs. "I'm skeptical about tax credits," said Mr. Harrison of Carnegie Mellon.
In an article in the upcoming issue of the Harvard Business Review, Amar Bhide, an assistant professor at the Harvard Business School, argues that the vast majority of the nation's 600,000 or so startups begin as concerns with no income to benefit from tax incentives. For these companies, "the incentives are completely irrelevant."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Most Industries Haven't Recovered From Recession," track employment in the retail industry, in construction, in the military and health care industry, 1988-1992 (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Defense Department Office of the Controller); monthly civilian unemployment rate, Jan-1991-Oct 1992; help wanted index, Jan 1991-Sept 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (66%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (50%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; TAX CREDITS; TAXATION; INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAX LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: KURTZMAN, JOEL; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



482 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
The Theory of Relativity for the London Market

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IN Britain, it looks like the London stock market has been surging. In Frankfurt, that same stock market looks dull. In New York it looks like a disaster.
The fate of British stocks since Britain was forced out of Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism in mid-September shows that currencies do matter. Since the end of August, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 index has soared 17 percent measured in pounds, but only 2 percent measured in marks. 
 That reflects the integration of European economies. Many British companies make a lot of their revenues and profits in francs andmarks, and for them the devaluation of the pound just meant that foreign income would translate into more pounds.
During the same period, the dollar has been rebounding from depressed levels, reflecting a growing consensus that European interest rates were likely to fall while those in the United States had hit bottom and were rising. In dollars, the British stock index has fallen 9 percent since the end of August.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index expressed in pounds, marks and dollars, Sept-Nov. 13, 1992 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; GERMANY UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; FINANCIAL TIMES INDEX (LONDON STOCK INDICATOR); CURRENCY STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); EXCHANGE RATES (87%); BONDS (87%); DEVALUATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



483 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Balancing the Power at the Corporate Top, British Style

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
AFTER ousting Robert C. Stempel as chairman and chief executive, the board of the General Motors Corporation created what for companies in the United States is an unusual management structure. It appointed John F. (Jack) Smith Jr. as chief executive from within the ranks of management but gave the chairman's title -- and ultimate authority over the company's direction -- to an outside director, John G. Smale.
Only a handful of other corporations in the United States have installed an outside director as chairman. But the practice has long been common in Britain. And with boards in the United States becoming more assertive, and occasionally imposing greater control, as in the case of G.M., analysts and executives said the British experience might hold lessons for companies in the United States. 
 Companies here, partly out of tradition and partly as a result of growing pressure from shareholders and from regulators, tend to avoid giving full control to any one executive. They prefer to subject their top managers to stricter board oversight than is common in the United States.
Analysts said there were some risks in splitting the jobs, not the least of which was possible confusion both inside and outside the company about who was really in charge. Nevertheless, the separation of the chairmanship from management is becoming even more common in the wake of corporate scandals like the collapse of Robert Maxwell's media empire, in which there was virtually no board monitoring Mr. Maxwell, who was chairman and chief executive.
But analysts said that the practice should not be limited to extreme cases, and that it had proved helpful to many companies when shareholders perceived a chief executive as needing more oversight, or when a recession-battered company needed all the help it could get.
Earlier this year, for example, John S. Kerridge stepped down as chairman and chief executive of Fisons P.L.C., a large pharmaceuticals company. Mr. Kerridge resigned for health reasons, but his stewardship of the company had drawn considerable criticism from institutional shareholders, who said he had failed to fully disclose problems Fisons was having selling two of its products in the United States.
Under prodding from the shareholders, the board of Fisons named an outside director, Patrick Egan, as a nonexecutive chairman, and brought in a new chief executive, Cedric Scroggs. Industry executives said the new management structure was set up primarily to assuage the concerns of shareholders about too much power resting with a single executive who did not seem inclined to keep shareholders fully briefed on the company's difficulties. Analysts said they now receive a much clearer picture from the company of its prospects.
Only 24 percent of public companies in Britain have a combined chairman and chief executive, according to Proned, a research organization in London that lobbies on behalf of institutional shareholders and other groups for increased use of nonexecutive directors. In the United States, according to various estimates, 75 percent to 80 percent of companies combine the jobs. At General Motors, for example, the two jobs have been treated as one for the last 34 years.
"It can be very dangerous when the person at the top of a large organization takes too much power onto his shoulders," said Colin St. Johnston, the managing director of Proned. "Companies on both sides of the Atlantic have suffered as a result of that kind of situation. So we need to find a way of building a good system of checks and balances."
The structure of corporate management has become a topic of considerable debate in Britain over the last year. Last year the London Stock Exchange, the Confederation of British Industry, a trade group, and the Institute of Chartered Accountants set up a task force to study corporate governance.
The task force concluded in a draft report issued earlier this year that more should be done to promote a separation of powers at the top of the corporate hierarchy. Some members of the task force have also suggested limits on terms for service for outside executives to keep them from becoming so close to management that they fail to exercise independent judgment. In the United States, shareholder advocacy groups have been calling for similar changes.
"There should be a clearly accepted division of responsibility at the head of the company, which will insure a balance of power and authority, such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision," the draft report said. "Where the chairman is also the chief executive, it is essential that that should be a strong independent element on the board, with an appointed leader."
British industry has objected to portions of the draft report, particularly the suggestion that outside directors have an appointed leader. The final report may back off on that point, people involved with the task force said.
 BUT the task force's chairman, Sir Adrian Cadbury, said in a speech to the Confederation of British Industry that companies should not risk a public backlash and the imposition of tighter regulatory controls by failing to make managements more accountable, particularly at a time when recession is claiming many victims among shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers.
"Hard times have had a part to play in putting the matter on the public agenda, but the basic issue is one of trust," Sir Adrian said. If companies and their boards do not take action on their own, he added, "others who understand business less well and are more doctrinaire in their approach will surely do so."
Yet while some managements continue to resist, the notion of greater board oversight is increasingly accepted even at companies that have long combined the roles of the chairman and the chief executive.
"The chairman and chief executive are two separate jobs," said Blenyth Jenkins, the director of corporate affairs for the Institute of Directors, a trade group based in London. "One of the major functions of the board is to supervise management. If the chairman of the board is also in management, then he is in effect marking his own exam papers."
Take the case of British Petroleum P.L.C. The company had long combined the chairman and chief executive jobs, and under Robert Horton, who was given those titles in 1990, virtually all authority over the company seemed to rest in them.
But when rising debt levels, falling oil prices and what some outside directors viewed as Mr. Horton's unwillingness to change strategies left the company staggering earlier this year, outside directors put pressure on Mr. Horton to resign. He was replaced by another member of management, David A. G. Simon, as chief executive, and by an outside board member, Lord Ashburton, as chairman.
"It was seen as a solution to the problem of having too much power concentrated in one person," said an industry executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FISONS LTD (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W JOSEPH C PAPA (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



484 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Ogletown, Del.;
An Office Park Just for Credit

BYLINE: By Maureen Milford

 BODY:
A CREDIT-CARD company that began modestly 10 years ago in a converted strip-shopping center here has bought a 235-acre office park in nearby Stanton for its expanding business.
The company, MBNA Corporation, calls itself the nation's third-largest lender through bank credit cards, after Citibank and Chase Manhattan. 
 Last month it bought the Westgate Corporate Park, where for two years it has been leasing two three-story buildings as satellite space. The purchase price was $56 million.
The company plans to begin constructing two more three-story office buildings early next year in the park, half a mile northeast of its headquarters here.
Construction has already begun on a 17,500-square-foot day-care center to accommodate 200 children of its employees. The two new buildings, with a total of 240,000 square feet, will double the space of its satellite buildings.
The architects are Victorine & Samuel Homsey of Wilmington. Design plans are not final, but the site and zoning of the property permit MBNA to construct highly visible buildings facing Interstate 95.
MBNA came to Delaware in the early 1980's with dozens of other out-of-state banks. It was then known as Maryland Bank NA, but has subsequently been spun off as a pure credit-card operation. The state's favorable banking and credit-card laws, enacted during the runaway inflation years of the early 80's, created a haven for financial institutions that did not want interest-rate ceilings.
MBNA set up shop about seven miles southwest of Wilmington in this crossroads community mostly of middle-income suburban housing developments. From its start in a former local shopping center it has grown to occupy nine buildings, totaling 593,000 square feet, on 31 acres and to employ 5,200 people. It plans to add more than 4,000 jobs in the next five years at the Westgate Corporate Park, according to David W. Spartin, senior vice president. The park will be developed for MBNA's use only.
The parcel had been part of a 950-acre land bank owned by the nonprofit Welfare Foundation Inc., founded in the 1930's by the late Pierre S. duPont to preserve land for institutional use.
In the early 80's the foundation donated 191 acres to the Medical Center of Delaware, which built a regional medical center. A few small parcels were sold to commercial developers and the rest was given to the University of Delaware in Newark.
At one time the university planned to build an office and research park on the site, but in the 80's it sold the land to a development joint venture of Bell Atlantic Properties of Philadelphia and Bellevue Holding Company and EDIS of Wilmington. Its Westgate Corporate Park never progressed beyond the two buildings.

GRAPHIC: Map of Deleware showing location of Ogletown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MBNA CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); BELLEVUE HOLDING CO INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: MBNA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OGLETOWN (DEL) UNITED STATES (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS CREDIT CARDS (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHARITIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: MILFORD, MAUREEN

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



485 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 14; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
BMW Puts a V8 Under the 740's Hood

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
TRADITIONAL wisdom used to tell us that high-end cars were bulletproof in a recession. The idea was that folks with money continued to have money, and they didn't worry about where their next Rolls-Royce was coming from.
That notion has had some holes poked in it in recent years, however. Falling stocks, a Federal luxury tax, the weakening dollar and ever more bearish conditions have made the car business a bit more egalitarian when it comes to taking lumps, and the makers of fancy cars have been hurting just like the rest. 
 BMW is one of those that has had its ups and downs, but the German manufacturer's full line of automobiles -- ranging from the 3-series that appeals to young buyers with healthy cash-flows to the 8-series of 12-cylinder supercars -- has kept the Bavarian Motor Works factory in Munich reasonably busy of late.
So far in 1992, American sales are up 27 percent over last year, and construction has begun on a $300 million plant in Greer, S.C., that will produce as many as 70,000 cars a year for the world market by the end of the decade. In addition, BMW has continued to upgrade its line, introducing a 525i station wagon last spring and a V8 version of the 7-series just last month.
That car, now dubbed the 740, replaces the six-cylinder 735, and it is what BMW calls its "base luxury sedan." As such, the 740i carries a minimum sticker price of $54,000, while the longer-wheelbase 740iL begins at $58,000. With options, we could be talking real money here.
But the car is undeniably gorgeous, even if its rather conservative four-door styling fails to turn heads. And, for what it's worth, the notes that I dictated into a tape recorder while cruising in a silver 740i say, among other things, that this is what an automobile ought to be about.
It is one of the tautest, quietest cars you are likely to find. It swaths you in sweet-smelling leather and it gives you mirrorlike walnut trim to smile at. There are antilock brakes, of course, and standard dual air bags, with automatic tensioners to tighten the front seatbelts in case of a crash. And despite other manufacturers' protestations that a passenger-side bag forces the elimination of the glovebox, the 740 has what may be the biggest glovebox anywhere.
With 10 power adjustments for the front buckets and a switch to make the four-spoke wheel move in and out, driving position is superb. Room in back is good, as is trunk space, given that the 740 is not a particularly large car. Unfortunately, the trunk's liftover is high, posing the possibility of a sprained back for someone loading cargo. But the compartment does hold a full-size spare tire, and the lid, as usual in a BMW, contains a complete set of tools.
The car is, in fact, laden with nice touches. Up front, the intermittent wipers are keyed to the car's speed, and the washer fluid sprays from heated jets. The driver's doorlock also is heated to prevent freezing, and the key in that lock allows simultaneous closing of the windows and sunroof.
The "halogen ellipsoid" headlamps may be the best in any car, putting a carpet of sun on the road. There is a high-pressure headlight-foglight cleaning system and a rearview mirror that dims automatically when hit by high beams from the rear.
The right sideview mirror automatically positions itself to show the curb when you are backing up, and a memory system recalls your preference for adjustment of the driver's seat, the steering wheel, the heated sideview mirrors and the front seatbelt height.
It is fine to talk about these magical gizmos, of course, but it is what's under the skin that makes the 740 a driver's car. And for those of us who grew up with V8's, the sound and smoothness of a 90's version is . . . well, a thrill.
With the 740, BMW revives a tradition that began in 1954 when the company became the first European manufacturer to build a V8, putting its 2.6-liter and 3.2-liter aluminum engines into 501 and 502 sedans, the 503 coupe and convertible, and the 507 roadster. In 1965, the eight-cylinder yielded to the six that previously powered the 7-series cars.
Like those earlier eights, 1993's four-liter powerplant is made mainly of aluminum, but it now has four overhead camshafts, 32 valves and today's electronics. And while the earlier engines produced as much as 160 horsepower, the new V8 puts out 282 horses and 295 foot-pounds of torque.
It also has "knock control" that allows it to run without stumbles on less than its preferred premium fuel, and its high-tech innards include such things as a lightweight thermoplastic intake manifold and a fuel-injection system that employs a hot-metal-film sensor in the incoming stream of air to determine exactly how much gas is needed.
Instead of steel cylinder liners in the aluminum block, the walls of the cylinders are hardened with a layer of nickel deposited by galvanic action. The system, called Galnikal, is a first for automobiles, although it has been used previously in BMW motorcycle engines.
Power from the V8 flows to the road through a new five-speed automatic transmission whose electronic controls offer three shift modes.
In the "Economy" position, early upshifts provide the quietest and most efficient operation, yielding a miles-per-gallon rating of 16 in the city, and 22 on the highway. Shift-points are raised with the "Sport" button pushed, creating 0-60 acceleration on the order of 7 seconds. The third button, a snowflake symbol, indicates "Winter" mode, which reduces the tendency to wheelspin by providing third-gear starts.
Traction control, which further aids driving in slippery conditions, is available as part of a $1,795 "inclement weather package." Heated front seats (which by themselves cost $360) and a ski bag with a trunk-to-interior pass-through also are part of the package. The only other necessary or possible expenses are the $1,300 gas-guzzler tax, $405 for delivery, and a $1,470 damping-control system that puts electronics to work in the suspension.
That would add up to something like $58,970 plus tax for the silver 740i that I was so happy with. Still, according to Karl Gerlinger, president of BMW of North America, 7,000 of the 7-series cars are expected to be sold in the coming year.
Traditional wisdom may have a point.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BMW's base luxury car has been redone for '93. Among exterior changes are larger 'kidneys' in the grille.(BMW of North America); The 740's new V8 produces 282 horsepower. It weighs only 32 pounds more than the straight-six that it replaced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (78%); 

CITY: MUNICH, GERMANY (54%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (78%); MUNICH, GERMANY (54%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); SEDANS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



486 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: To The Mat;
Now Clinton Decides Which Promises Came First

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

 BODY:
WHEN President Franklin D. Roosevelt was addressing a rally at Madison Square Garden during his re-election campaign of 1936, someone up in the rafters held up a sign that read: "We love him for the enemies he has made."
Indeed, Presidents are defined as much by the promises they keep as by the enemies they are willing to make by breaking or postponing campaign vows. The intriguing question about Bill Clinton is: now that he is President-elect, which of his campaign promises will he push and which will he push aside? 
 One thing is clear. Mr. Clinton simply cannot ram through Congress in the first 100 days, or even in the first year, anything more than a fraction of his campaign pledges. But this is not only because he would choke the Congressional committees. More important, it is because the consensus at the center of the political spectrum -- which he will need to get his most important programs, health care and economic renewal, through Congress -- almost certainly would not hold if he tried to take too many controversial steps at once.
It is an axiom of American politics that Presidents govern at the center -- by nudging it in one direction or another. The fun in the coming year will be watching Mr. Clinton juggle in the center ring -- juggling Democratic supporters who will be alienated by the special interest promises he fails to keep and juggling Republican and Perot conservatives who will be outraged by the special interest promises on which he delivers, while all the time trying to hold together a center coalition for what really counts: healing the economy and reforming health care.
President John F. Kennedy promised during the 1960 campaign that he would "end discrimination with the stroke of a pen on his first day in office," recalled the Presidential historian Michael R. Beschloss. But when Mr. Kennedy got into office, not only did he not fulfill his civil rights pledge, he appointed a slew of conservative judges opposed to civil rights in order to hold the support of conservative southern Democrats in Congress for other issues he held more dear. Instead of acting on civil rights in January 1961, he waited until June 1963 to submit a civil rights bill.
What happened in the interim?
"People sent him a lot of pens," Mr. Beschloss said.
It is hard to know what Mr. Clinton will get in the mail, but the White House post office better be prepared, because something is going to have to give.
Consider just last week. Mr. Clinton declared on Veterans Day that once in office he would move to lift the 48-year-old ban on gay men and lesbians in the military. Just that act alone, a relatively small item in his overall agenda, would involve the most radical change to the social fabric of the American military since President Harry S. Truman ordered the army integrated in 1948.
 
Colin Powell's Against It
 The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Colin L. Powell, has already declared that lifting the ban would be "prejudicial to good order and discipline."
Now, imagine that on top of fulfilling just that one campaign promise, Mr. Clinton also fulfills his promise to adopt a more aggressive posture toward humanitarian relief for Bosnia, even if it requires American military intervention as part of a United Nations operation. The Pentagon, under General Powell, has vigorously opposed such intervention. Will President Clinton, who will come into office with his own baggage of having avoided the Vietnam War draft, want to overrule the military on two highly controversial issues in his first few weeks or months in office?
For interest's sake, add one more promise that Mr. Clinton has made -- that he will move quickly to make it easier for Haitian refugees to gain political asylum in the United States. That could stimulate a flood of Haitian refugees to already overburdened Florida, setting off all sorts of fireworks.
Just those three initiatives could get a Clinton Presidency tied up in knots before it even takes up the explosive questions that will probably be involved in economic restructuring -- gasoline taxes, deficit reduction, entitlement trimming, free trade, middle-class taxes and the like. Taking on those issues will aggravate many in Mr. Clinton's Democratic constituency.
Mr. Clinton, of course, is no fool and he did not get where he is without being able to juggle. His actions during this first week since the election provide a lot of clues as to the techniques he will employ.
One is that he may announce his intentions to take certain steps on social policy -- like lifting the ban on homosexuals in the military or the ban on abortion counseling at Federally funded clinics -- without necessarily doing it right away, but instead by convening a commission to study the matter first and make recommendations on how to proceed. As Governor, Mr. Clinton was a master at using study groups to buy himself time for difficult political decisions, and to give him political cover when the decision was made.
On Wednesday, Mr. Clinton told reporters flat out that he intended to lift the ban on homosexuals in the military. But at his news conference on Thursday he soft-pedaled his commitment and stressed instead the careful manner in which he would approach this delicate issue, saying: "What I plan to do is to put together a group of people and let them advise me on how we might best do this."
 
The Balm of Rhetoric
 Another of Mr. Clinton's techniques will be to use the balm of rhetoric. He clearly has an innate ability to explain things in terms that the average person can understand, speaking in sentences and paragraphs -- in contrast with the fractured prose of George Bush, whom it was virtually impossible to quote in a coherent sentence without the aide of ellipses and parentheses to patch his thoughts together.
Mr. Clinton's abilities in this regard were most apparent in his carefully crafted answer on why he supported homosexuals in the military. First he cited a study by President Bush's Defense Secretary, Dick Cheney, noting that homosexuals who have served in the military did so with distinction. Then he observed that the Army needs every man or woman ready to serve -- who can argue with that? -- and closed by saying that it is behavior on the job, not sexual preference, that should determine eligibility.
This was a series of rapid fire arguments, seamlessly woven together, that might have given even the most homophobic American something to think about. In an era of scarcity of both resources and tolerance, having a President who can heal with his words and not just his wallet could be a great asset. But even Mr. Clinton's masseur's touch with the English language, which recalls Lyndon Johnson's ability to soothe angry constituencies, is something he will also have to balance. Quite simply, sometimes he can seem too smooth, too eloquent for his own good. Sometimes you want to check your wallet when he's done talking -- just to make sure all your credit cards are still there. He is obviously aware of this tendency, and seems to be feeling for the right balance in his voice.
Finally, it appears that Mr. Clinton will look to pay off different groups in different currencies. The trick, said Norman Ornstein, an expert on the Presidency at the American Enterprise Institute, "is finding ways to placate constituencies without giving up resources you cannot afford or political capital you don't want to expend."
For instance, he will probably engender a lot of good will from traditional Democratic constituencies early on through executive orders lifting the gag rule on abortion counseling and, as a payoff to labor, imposing restrictions on union-busting.
"If Clinton is clever, he can find a few things that have great symbolic weight for certain interest groups," said Mr. Ornstein. "If dispensed judiciously, they will not fracture the center."
Another interesting act to watch will be Mr. Clinton taking on his own party by putting in place what he vows will be the highest ethical standards imposed by any Administration on its staff. On Friday, his transition team announced guidelines restricting post-inauguration lobbying by transition officials or their involvement in transition affairs from which they might benefit.
 
The Clamor for Jobs
 The delicate balance here will be between the clamor for jobs, especially from those tied to the Democratic party Washington establishment -- the Clinton transition chairman, Vernon Jordan, is as Establishment as you can get -- and the very real public demand to break the hold of the three-martini lobbyists on Congress. On the one hand, Mr. Clinton clearly seems committed to being an agent of change, but on the other he wants to tap into the networks of power and influence, from the think tanks to the top law firms and investment banks. It was precisely his link to that network in years past that kept him, the Governor of a small backwater state, from being marginalized. In formulating and, more importantly, in applying his ethics rules, he will have to confront those two sides of his own politics.
"People will say that fixing the economy or fighting drugs is what's really important and ethics can be taken for granted," said Dennis F. Thompson, who runs an ethics study program at Harvard. "But I say that ethics is the most important issue. Nothing will do more to restore lost confidence in government than higher than normal ethics standards and nothing will paralyze an Administration more quickly than an ethics scandal."
Strict ethics guidelines, added Mr. Thompson, are not some liberal indulgence, but rather "a precondition for getting on with the business of addressing the major public policy issues."
That is certainly how Mr. Clinton has approached ethics in theory, where he has made a sharp departure from the past. But practice will be the real test. This is one area where he cannot afford to play the juggler.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); DISCRIMINATION (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



487 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Whose New Health Plan Is This Anyway?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
AS a Presidential candidate, Bill Clinton astutely diagnosed the malaise of the nation's health-care system. But to cure its problems, in one year or even four, he will need to combine the skills of an emergency-room doctor, an economist, a faith healer and a miracle worker.
Health care was one of Mr. Clinton's strongest campaign issues, and doctors, hospitals, private health insurers and drug companies now see profound changes as inevitable. But they are girding for battle over the right to direct those changes. Last week they were mouthing conciliatory words, offering to work with the new Administration, promising not to obstruct the changes envisioned by the President-elect. At the same time, they were refining plans for sophisticated lobbying to define the public interest in a way that will coincide with their own. 
 "Clinton has a clear mandate for reform, but does not have a national consensus on any specific plan," said Drew E. Altman, former Commissioner of Human Services in New Jersey, who is now president of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, which studies health policy.
Congress has considered a huge variety of proposals ranging from tax credits for buying private health insurance to a publicly financed "single-payer" system of universal insurance like Canada's. To control costs, Mr. Clinton said in the campaign that he wanted to impose annual limits on all health-care spending, public and private. As a step toward universal coverage, he would also require employers to provide health insurance for their workers.
To revamp the health-care system, Mr. Clinton must "make health one of his top two or three personal priorities and invest tremendous time, energy and political capital," Mr. Altman said. "It is by no means certain we will see comprehensive reform that controls costs and covers all the uninsured."
Mr. Clinton designated health care as one of his top priorities when he announced last week that there would be a separate transition team to address it. It is headed by Judith Feder, co-director of the Center for Health Policy Studies at Georgetown University. Dr. Feder was staff director of a Federal advisory panel that, in 1990, recommended that employers be required to provide health insurance or buy coverage for their workers through a Government program.
 
An Issue So Complex
 Mr. Clinton has a reasonably good chance of reviving the nation's economy -- if nothing else, the business cycle works in his favor. By contrast, the problems in the nation's health-care system are chronic and seem intractable. Rising economic fortunes lift all boats, but effective controls on health spending will adversely affect some groups. Consumers may benefit from stringent controls on health costs. But doctors, hospitals, private health insurers, drug companies and manufacturers of medical technology all fear they will lose money.
The issue is so complex, the interests so diverse, that it will be a major feat if Mr. Clinton can, as he promises, simply draft a comprehensive bill in his first 100 days in office.
Thomas A. Scully, who has worked at the Office of Management and Budget for the last four years, offers an admonition: "If Clinton tries to push through one big health-care reform package in the first 100 days, he'll get creamed by eight zillion interest groups. Even if one party controls the White House and both houses of Congress, you'll still have massive fights."
Democrats in Congress have widely divergent views about the extent to which Government should regulate health costs and insurance company practices.
The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, the American Hospital Association and the Washington Business Group on Health, which represents 175 big corporations, held a news conference last week to promote the idea of health maintenance organizations and other networks linking hospitals, doctors, employers and insurers. Their announcement was a pre-emptive effort to gain a voice in the new Administration, to strike a cooperative tone and dispel the impression that they would block change.
In a move that signals new ferment in the health insurance industry, two of the biggest companies, Metropolitan Life and Aetna Life and Casualty, announced this month that they were withdrawing from the Health Insurance Association of America, the powerful lobby for the nation's commercial insurers. With the future of their business at stake, some of the bigger insurance companies seem willing to accept major changes in the health care system that would fundamentally transform the role of private insurers. They increasingly find themselves in conflict with smaller companies that want to continue business as usual.
John D. Moynahan Jr., executive vice president of Metropolitan Life, said, "Our role has changed dramatically from providing the standard type of health insurance to being a manager of care" delivered to large employee groups by networks of doctors and hospitals.
 
Persuasive Donors?
 Those in the health care industry are trying to buttress their arguments with the persuasive power of campaign contributions. From January 1991 through June of this year, the health and insurance industries contributed $18.6 million to Congressional candidates, according to a study by Citizen Action, a nationwide consumer group. The political arm of the American Medical Association, the biggest donor, gave more than $1.1 million. A.M.A. officials like to project an altruistic image as learned guardians of public health, but they refuse to discuss details of their campaign contributions.
Robert M. Brandon, vice president of Citizen Action, said: "Toward the end of the campaign, Bill Clinton seemed to rely more and more on the idea of public-private health partnerships, managed care and managed competition. But that alone will not solve the problem of soaring health costs. There is no evidence that such arrangements dampen health costs. And they defy people's desire to maintain freedom to choose their own doctors."
The two-year-old, free-form debate over health care has not produced concrete results, but may have laid the groundwork for action. Democrats in Congress and their leaders, Senator George J. Mitchell and Representative Richard A. Gephardt, are on trial too. Having raised expectations, they will be judged severely if they do not pass legislation to control health costs and protect the 35 million people lacking insurance.
It is probably unrealistic to expect major changes to take effect in Mr. Clinton's first 100 days or even in his first year. Dr. Paul M. Ellwood, president of InterStudy, a health policy research group in Jackson Hole, Wyo., suggests that the people take an even longer view. "In the next four years," he says confidently, "we will see the most significant changes in the American health system in 50 years."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Campaign Contributions to Those Making Health Policy: Big Givers and Big Takers" shows health and insurance industry campaign contributions to Senate and House candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PVT AS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TAX LAW (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



488 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2949 words

HEADLINE: The Riot's Ashes/A special report.;
Separateness Grows in a Scarred Los Angeles

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Among the lasting casualties of the Los Angeles riots is Julius Butler's faith in the future, his belief that with good will and hard work the competing ethnic groups of this fast-changing city could find a road to harmony.
"We've been saying for years to the younger generation, 'Hold on, there's hope,' " said Mr. Butler, a 60-year-old black lawyer who is active in church affairs and youth counseling. "What do we tell them now? 
 "I ask myself many times, 'Have I been responsible by saying that? Have I been responsible by continuing to advocate Martin Luther King's dream? Is it a dream or is it a fantasy?' "
Half a year after the worst urban American riots of the century, Los Angeles seems to be a city coming apart rather than coming together. Though there are some signs of progress and hope, there are others that the violence and destruction served only to intensify competition and mistrust in this most diverse of major American cities.
Black, Hispanic, Asian and white communities have withdrawn into themselves, more aware than ever of their differences, competing for scarce resources, aid, jobs and political power.
"The violence of last April and May has laid bare the city's inter-ethnic competition and hostility," said Halford Fairchild, a past president of the Association of Black Psychologists who studies social issues in Los Angeles. "I think the potential exists for urban warfare where the battle lines are drawn according to skin color, language and ethnicity."
The tensions are evident in recent violent black-Hispanic confrontations within Los Angeles County's schools and prisons and at construction sites where black groups have held noisy demonstrations demanding post-riot rebuilding jobs.
They are evident in the successful lobbying of the City Council by a South-Central Los Angeles group to limit the reopening of scores of liquor stores, mostly Korean-owned, that had been looted and burned. In addition, a black-Korean alliance that struggled for years to prevent conflicts has been all but disbanded, city officials say, as the two communities focus on their separate concerns.
 
An Issue on the Sidelines
 The scramble for power and resources almost paralyzed the city's main reconstruction effort as interest groups, rather than setting aside their differences at a time of need, jostled angrily for months to be represented on the main umbrella organization, Rebuild L. A., headed by Peter V. Ueberroth, the former commissioner of baseball.
In a city with a weak mayoral system and diffuse power structure, there has been no clear leadership to bring the groups together. With Mayor Tom Bradley retiring and an election for his job set for next November, some analysts fear that politics will overwhelm constructive action in the months to come.
"There is very little talk about coming together these days," said Larry Aubry, an official with the Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations. "People are focused on getting their own stuff together. Human relations has always been peripheral as an issue, and that's where it stays."
 
Blacks
Little Hope In a Grim Setting
 At the intersection of Florence and Normandie avenues, where the rioting erupted last April 29, a young man, James Hrue, was recently selling homemade T-shirts showing a Florence and Normandie street sign above a movie marquee reading, "COMING SOON at a corner near you."
All around him in this mostly black neighborhood, the empty lots of burned-out businesses stood as symbols of the city's unhealed wounds. Outside the Tom's Liquor store, where the looting began, the usual crowd of drifters lounged, holding bottles concealed in paper bags. On the side streets were groups of gang members, also with bottles in their hands.
"This is a symbolic place; this is history," Mr. Hrue said, reflecting on the convulsion of violence that took more than 50 lives and caused nearly $1 billion in damage.
Four white police officers acquitted of assault in the videotaped beating of a black motorist, Rodney G. King, face a Federal trial in the same beating next year, and many people here worry that new riots are possible.
"Basically the problem now is time," Mr. Hrue said, voicing a widespread restlessness among many blacks here. "I know things are getting done, but we don't see it here. Why don't they act like this is an emergency?"
Inside the liquor store, the Korean proprietor spoke angrily about the failure of the police to protect him, about the Government's slowness in reconstruction aid and about live television coverage of the looting that he said seemed to advertise, "Hey, free beer!"
"This is a stupid country, man, I'm telling you," said the owner, who refused to give his name.
On the street outside, Pete Douglas, 45 years old, described a drab routine here in which jobless men shuttle between the liquor store and the service station where they hustle for tips.
"We go pump gas across the street in the morning: that's breakfast," said Mr. Douglas, who once worked at a sewage plant. "Then again at lunch hour and then the evening rush."
He said the men and women who make this corner their home know Gary Williams, who was arrested for picking the pocket of Reginald O. Denny, the white truck driver who was severely beaten at the start of the rioting.
"He was just a hungry guy out here trying to make ends meet," Mr. Douglas said. "He probably just saw an opportunity. If he did do it, he probably did it out of hunger and frustration."
That, Mr. Douglas added, is still the mood of South-Central Los Angeles, an area where, the 1990 census found, 30 percent of the people live below the poverty line.
"They've cleared the land" after the looting and fires, he said, "but we don't see no businesses going up."
On 71st Street, one block away, a group of tough-looking young men, mostly unemployed, said they had also returned to their routines, to empty lives enlivened by brushes with the police.
"I just got out of jail two days ago," said one of the men, Mark Williams, 30, who is the older brother of Damian Williams, one of those accused of beating Mr. Denny and a dozen other people at the start of the riots.
Mr. Williams said he had been jailed for "running off at the mouth" when he challenged an undercover policewoman who was watching him and his friends from across the street. He said he also faced charges of assaulting a police officer and trying to disarm two police officers during the first confrontation of the riots.
"We're the weed part," Mr. Williams said, referring to the Federal Government's new "weed and seed" program for reviving urban America in which troublemakers are to be removed from the streets and social programs provided in their place.
Mr. Williams, who has been struggling to start a car-stereo-installation business, said he might save the Government the trouble. "I'm just waiting to get these court cases over with and sell the house and get out of here," he said.
Mr. Butler, the lawyer, said he had been in Los Angeles during the Watts riots of 1965 and understood the frustrations of angry young men like these.
"I know the hurt, the pain and the outrage that they feel," he said. "If I was 19 years old, I probably would have been in the streets with them."
 
Whites
Bitter Farewell To Isolation
 For James N., a 40-year-old white man, the nagging thought is how much he might have had in common with the black man who threw a brick through his windshield as the violence erupted at Florence and Normandie.
"If he had only asked me, I would have told him I was as angry at the verdict as he was and we could have walked away," James N. said, referring to the officers' acquittals that sparked the rioting.
James N., a delivery man who was passing through the area as the verdicts were announced, refused to allow his last name to be used because he feared becoming a participant in post-riot controversies.
"I don't know who it was, but the guy who threw a brick through my windshield changed my life," he said, adding that his left cheekbone was shattered and that his body trembles uncontrollably whenever he talks about the riot.
"I carry a gun now, and you know why? Not because of what those people did to me but because of what I have turned into.
"I grew up in this town. My father grew up in this town, and I never had any trouble getting along in the world. Now when I come up on a stop light, I look around to see who's there. That's what has become of me. Now I'm a guy who says, 'Next time it's going to be different.' I've got a gun and I'm an excellent shot and I'll use it."
The city's white population, while largely untouched by the riots, was shaken by the uprising it witnessed.
While some whites joined cleanup brigades, many others hurried to buy guns. Whatever an individual's response, there was a shared sense that the city's more affluent residents could no longer feel insulated from the poverty and anger of the inner city.
"When I grew up here, it was like a small town, with basically white middle-class neighbors," James N. said. "Now we've got Asians, Koreans, Vietnamese, Latin American countries from Argentina to Mexico. I live in one of the strongholds of white people in this area, along the coast. The rent keeps out minorities."
The riots have only underscored the difficulties of this diversity, he said, alienating him because of race from people like his assailant, with whom he might have found common ground. He has retreated into his mostly white enclave and carefully maps his delivery routes to avoid minority neighborhoods.
"I think this is a big country," he said. "There's room for everybody. But the system we have still isn't prepared to deal with providing services for all these people. The pie is only so big, and everybody wants a piece, and they're fighting over it."
 
Hispanics
Looking for Ways To Gain Power
 One group that is reaching out for political power in the wake of the riots is the city's fast-growing and increasingly vocal Hispanic population. But even here, a challenge is to find common ground among diverse elements.
As the long-established Mexican-American residents of East Los Angeles looked on nervously from across the paved banks of the Los Angeles River, Hispanic neighborhoods in South-Central Los Angeles and the Pico Union district, largely populated by Central American immigrants, were among those torn by rioting and looting.
"There were people who were saying, 'That's not us. They're not Mexican,' " said Frank Villalobos, an urban planner who is a community leader in East Los Angeles. But he said a decision was made by leaders in East Los Angeles not to divide the Hispanic community and to accept responsibility for the actions of fellow Hispanic residents.
Since the riots, Mr. Villalobos has helped organize focus groups among the city's Central American population to help integrate their needs into a common Hispanic political agenda that will become a force in Los Angeles's future.
The old, mostly black-white coalition formed during Mayor Bradley's 20-year-tenure is already fading. "I think there will have to be a new leadership coalition in the city," said Sergio Munoz, news director of the Spanish-language television station KMEX.
"But this coalition will have to recognize the new reality," Mr. Munoz said, "which is that 38 percent of the city is Latino, that a very important Asian population is growing, that the African-American population is diminishing and that there is a white Anglo-Saxon population that is no longer as powerful as it used to be."
 
Shopowners
Waiting for Aid For Rebuilding
 Six months after the riots, the owners of the burned-out Family Chiropractic Services finally found an organization to represent their needs. With the help of the American Civil Liberties Union, they joined nearly 2,000 other riot victims two weeks ago in filing suit against the city, claiming that the police discriminated against them during the riots.
"This is the first place we've gotten any action," said Priscilla Feldsher, who with her mother, Wenefrette Conner, owns Family Chiropractic Services and the adjacent M.F.I. Skin Care Clinic. The two businesses were among hundreds that were burned in the riots, and their owners' complaints of inaction are repeated increasingly around the city.
Political leaders agree that the reconstruction of businesses, with all the economic ripple effects they offer, is a vital part of reviving the area and preventing future unrest. But frustration has grown as bureaucratic delays, ignorance and broken promises have slowed the rebuilding.
There are bright spots. Ben Mayo, owner of a print shop that burned in the same fire that destroyed Dr. Feldsher's clinics, has opened a new shop with the aid of Rebuild L. A.
Mr. Mayo said his new shop was even better than the one he lost. "The help is available," he said. "You just have to go after it."
Like many other black owners of small businesses in the area, Dr. Feldsher and her mother did not have insurance. They were among the first riot victims to apply for Small Business Administration loans. But even then they were not sure how much help they would be eligible for because most of their financial records had been destroyed in the fire.
"It's just been a big rat race," said Dr. Feldsher. She said she had gone from the Mayor's office to her Councilman to Rebuild L. A. to black organizations. "They just kept giving us numbers we had already gotten through our directory."
The two women spent weeks assembling documents for the Small Business Administration but so far no loan has been approved. They hear from their former employees only indirectly now, when they receive requests from the unemployment office for confirmation of claims for benefits.
Creditors have given Dr. Feldsher extensions on house and car payments, on her credit cards, on most of her utilities payments and even on her children's piano lessons. But she said this simply meant that her debts were accumulating at a time when she was surviving mainly through the help of friends.
"My husband and I are scared to death, to be honest with you," Dr. Feldsher said. "And my mother's feeling real bad."
So it was a relief last month to march into City Hall with documents prepared with the A.C.L.U.'s help and to demand restitution from the city, the county and the state.
The suits may be difficult to win, but they make a statement about the sense of disenfranchisement among the city's minorities. The claim they make is that the police and other city officials, in that moment of greatest need, made a conscious decision to abandon the city's poor and minority neighborhoods to the flames.
"It's true," Dr. Feldsher said. "When there was trouble in Beverly Hills, they responded immediately. But for us they didn't do anything. Nothing at all."
 
Koreans
Persistent Anger Fuels Involvement
 Ho Jun Sin filed a claim against the city, too. His shop, Leimert Park Liquor, was the target of a firebomb during the riot, and the flames spread down the block, engulfing Dr. Feldsher's clinics and other businesses.
"It cost me my business," Mr. Mayo said, adding that Mr. Sin's store, like a number of other Korean businesses in the area, had experienced conflicts with its black customers and had therefore been singled out in the rioting. "He apologized and he admitted it. He knew it was him."
About 2,000 Korean businesses were damaged or destroyed in the riots, and that has been a turning point for the local Korean-American community of 145,000 people.
The riots in effect created a new ethnic interest group as the Koreans realized that they needed to stand up for their own rights in the city's multiethnic competition. Shopowners associations and riot-victims groups have multiplied, marches and demonstrations have been held and Korean voices have been newly raised at public meetings.
"In the past I would be the only Korean-American and the only Asian-American at different meetings," said Jerry Yu, executive director of the Korean-American Coalition, a community advocacy group. "Now I see more and more Korean-Americans coming there."
The Korean community was stunned by the absence of police protection in the busy retail enclave called Koreatown as their stores were looted and burned, and Koreans have filed the largest number of discrimination claims against the city.
Now Mr. Yu is angered by what he sees as the local government's continuing treatment of the Korean-American community as foreigners. "Many government agencies keep asking us how many Korean-American victims, how many stores," he said. "But it is not our job to have this information. It is their job. So these questions are an insult."
In addition, blacks in South-Central Los Angeles won passage of a city ordinance that requires a public hearing before any damaged liquor store in the area can be reopened.
Advocates of the measure say that there are too many liquor stores in the neighborhood and that alcohol contributes far more than drugs to the area's crime.
But many Koreans, who own 70 percent of the liquor stores and markets in the area, say the ordinance is really intended to keep them away. So far, only three approvals for reopening, all of them to Koreans, have been granted.
Mr. Sin is not one of those few, and he is supporting himself with a Small Business Administration loan.
"The process is not fair," he said, and for once it was a complaint that might be endorsed by any of the city's fractious groups. "I thought there was equal opportunity for everyone in America, but it is not true."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As a police helicopter circled overhead, two youths stood near the site of an auto-repair shop at Vermont Avenue and 85th Street in South-Central Los Angeles that had been destroyed in the riots six months ago. (Liliana Nieto del Rio for The New York Times) (pg. 1); There have been some signs of progress and hope in the six months since the riots in Los Angeles. A new building, bottom, is almost completed on 48th and Western Avenue where a market and pharmacy stood in ruins six months ago, top. (Liliana Nieto del Rio for The New York Times); Julius Butler, a lawyer active in youth counseling, said he understood the frustration of those involved in the riots. "If I was 19 years old, I probably would have been in the streets with them." (Liliana Nieto del Rio for The New York Times) (pg. 30)
 
Table: "Measures of Progress Since the Riots" lists number of arrests, arrests dismissed and cases still in the court system and the help giving to L.A. businesses since the riots (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES COUNTY COMMISSION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES COUNTY COMMISSION (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); ASIAN-AMERICANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RIOTS (92%); ETHNICITY (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); POLITICS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); BASEBALL (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH JAMES HRUE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



489 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: You Can Go Home Again, Even to China

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHUN SHUI, China

 BODY:
"My son, are you from this village?" Liu Jiuyou asked Henry Doong as he walked toward the village's ancestral hall. "Come. See how we've expanded."
Stooped and fragile, the 87-year-old Mrs. Liu walked slowly with the help of her cane and pointed to a small clump of homes whose wobbly walls seemed in far worse condition than she. Her pride in this insignificant accomplishment reminded Mr. Doong that if history were slightly different he could have been standing in her place, barefoot with muck between the toes, pointing to the same cluster of mud huts. 
 The 68-year-old Mr. Doong, who was born in a mud hut here, is one of tens of thousands of Chinese-Americans whose roots are somewhere among the rice paddies, villages, rolling hills and valleys of this region in southern China called Taishan.
 
To 'Old Gold Mountain'
 The peasants of Taishan were among the first to flee to "Old Gold Mountain," as San Francisco was known, in the 19th century, and a large share of the 1.8 million Chinese-Americans in the United States are from this area. The Taishan dialect used to be the patois of American Chinatowns, although in recent years Cantonese and to a lesser extent Mandarin have become more common.
Many of the one million residents of Taishan have relatives overseas, especially in Hong Kong, the United States and Canada. Now, as China's economy continues to blossom, many of the Chinese-Americans are coming back with their checkbooks and skills, along with a mixture of guilt and affection, to invest in their poor homelands. And if they do not come back in person, they send money.
In the village of Pan Shi, about an hour's car ride down the narrow bumpy roads from the nearest city, about three-quarters of the 440 residents have relatives overseas, and some of them seem more familiar with the streets of Queens than with those in Guangzhou.
Jiang Xiaomei, a 58-year-old woman whose blue-black sweater, high heels and lipstick make her look like a movie star in a mock run-down rural set, says her daughter is studying in New York. Other relatives overseas sent money to help build her a two-story tiled-wall home, which she locks up every time she leaves, unlike most villagers.
Many schools, factories, roads and homes here are built with money from overseas Chinese, and although Taishan people earn on average about $550 a year, officials say they spend more than that because of money sent from relatives. Overseas Chinese frequently return for vacations, and their sheer numbers fuel the local industries and drive up the prices of taxis and restaurant meals.
To encourage these contacts, the local government has established a special office that helps make arrangements for visiting overseas Chinese. Government officials also offer advice to the local people on American immigration law and explain procedures for emigrating to North America.
As a result, the outflow of Taishanese keeps growing as people here emigrate to join their parents, siblings or children in "the beautiful country," as the United States is known.
According to Chinese statistics, up to 6,000 of the more than 26,000 Chinese who immigrate to America each year come from Taishan. On top of that, a fair number of Taishanese living in other parts of China also obtain permission to emigrate.
 
Luxuries at Age 100
 Those who stay reap the benefits, though they may be decades in coming. For more than 60 years, Liang Jingzhen strapped her children to her back and headed to the fields alone to pluck rice from the paddies while her husband struggled to make a living abroad. Though he sent her money every once in a while, it is only now, at the age of 100, that Mrs. Liang can afford the luxuries of silk and a refrigerator and a color television, thanks to her 80-year-old daughter, now retired in Canada.
The overseas connection has helped broaden the attitudes of peasants here, although not always for the right reasons. Boys are still favored, but girls are increasingly valuable -- in part because they can marry Taishanese men who live abroad but come back to get married.
Mr. Doong, a retired engineer who lives in Washington,plans to spend next year teaching engineering at a nearby university here.
"I could have bought a home in Fort Myers and taken it easy for the rest of my life," he said. "But I'm coming back here to teach for a year. Why would I want to do that? It's the attachment."

GRAPHIC: Map of China, indicating, Guangdong Province, and village of Shum Shui.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (56%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; TAISHAN (CHINA) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (56%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CHINESE-AMERICANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FARM LABOR (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRENDS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); IMMIGRATION (59%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL HENRY DOONG (76%); LIU JIUYOU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



490 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The New Team;
Long Bottled Up, Advice From Democrats Flows

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Bruce Reed, an assistant to President-elect Bill Clinton, was buttonholed on a stairway at the transition headquarters in Little Rock, Ark., the other day by a stranger from Finland with a long, handwritten list of policy recommendations.
Toss it on the pile, Mr. Reed thought at the time, not even wondering how the man from Helsinki had managed to get past the security guards. 
 Like most others around Mr. Clinton, Mr. Reed, who was issues director in the campaign and who was named Thursday to be deputy director of the transition for domestic policy, has become numbed by all the free advice.
All the Democratic ideas that have been pent up for the last dozen years are now overflowing like lava from a long-dormant volcano.
Here is some of what happened just this week:
*The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Institute for International Economics submitted a report (on 100 percent recyclable paper with inks containing no lead or cadmium) listing the recommendations of dozens of former Government officials on how to organize the White House. ("Reorganizing the Government for the post-cold-war world is a necessity, not a luxury.")
*A group called the Citizens Transition Project headed by Mark Green, the New York City Commissioner of Consumer Affairs, sent the transition office a four-inch-thick loose-leaf notebook with the liberals' wish list on topics ranging from tax policy to the Peace Corps. ("The next Administration must first and foremost reaffirm the importance of the social policy mission and should lead a collective effort to articulate that historical mission in the context of 21st Century needs and capacities.")
*Women's organizations touted 79 Democratic women for top Government jobs (ranging alphabetically from Madeleine K. Albright, a expert in foreign policy, to Lynn Yeakel, an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for a Senate from Pennsylvania.)
* A group called America Talks Issues released a report, based on a public opinion poll, entitled "What the Public Wants in the Federal Budget." ("When confronted with 8 major revenue items and 20 major spending items, the public backs down to a smaller net deficit cut of 23 percent, but still does far better than Congress, which has increased, not cut, deficits throughout the Reagan-Bush years, despite the fact that 19 out of 20 Americans wants to cut the deficit and virtually all political leaders say we should do so.")
* Foreign Affairs magazine distributed advance copies of an article called "The 100-Day Economic Agenda," part of the issue of the magazine to be published this month. ("In recognizing the inescapable link between economic strength at home and influence abroad, the President-elect may not only improve the lives of millions of Americans but help many nations abroad that are counting on renewed and confident leadership from Washington.")
 
One Week's Total
 And that was this week alone.
On Monday, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Commission on Competitiveness is releasing "America's Agenda," billed as "a book-length blueprint for the next Administration."
The week after next, the American Enterprise Institute, a moderately conservative research organization here, is holding a two-day seminar called "Advice to the New President."
And in early December, the Progressive Policy Institute will publish "Mandate for Change," 14 chapters on the main issues of the day, like economic growth, health care, international affairs and the environment. This institute is home base for many Clinton advisers and is thus probably the most influential of the dozens of nonprofit organizations here that devote their days to writing papers on Government policy and filing 401(c)(3) tax exemption forms.
Each of the organizations would no doubt like to fill the role played 12 years ago by the Heritage Foundation. About this time in 1980, Heritage published "Mandate for Leadership: Policy Management in a Conservative Administration." It became the Bible for the new Administration. Many of its policy precepts, like supply-side economics, became Reagan Administration dogma. And many Heritage scholars joined the new Government.
 
Series of 'Mandates' Wanes
 In 1984, Heritage published "Mandate II: Continuing the Conservative Revolution," and in 1988 it put out "Mandate III: Policy Strategies for the 1990's." Neither was as successful as the first one.
This year, smelling the coffee, the conservative foundation decided not to publish a new "Mandate" but to confine its effort to individual papers on such topics as health care, trimming the size of the civil service and foreign and military policy.
"In 1980," said Herbert B. Berkowitz, a Heritage vice president, " 'Mandate for Leadership' was the only game in town. This time around, virtually everyone is hitting the ground running with their advice."
Politely, Mr. Clinton's staff says the President-elect welcomes advice and has actually read a draft of the Progressive Policy Institute's book. "He has a voracious appetite for policy," Mr. Reed said. "He really is curious about these big questions."
 
What Experts on Experts Say
 But experts in the field of advice say they are not sure all this paper is worth the staples that hold it together.
Reached by telephone, Ann Landers said Mr. Clinton "would be wise to ignore all the advice that's coming at him from all directions and do what he thinks is right for the country."
And Judith Martin, who writes the syndicated "Miss Manners" column, said: "The first rule of giving advice is you only give it when it's sought. It's rude to go around giving advice to people who haven't asked for it. And it's futile, too, because they won't take it. It's more than a rule of etiquette. It's a rule of practicality."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (90%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); PEACE CORPS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); PEACE CORPS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); WOMEN (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); TAX LAW (64%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



491 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Panamanians Will Vote Today On Changes That Ban an Army

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Panamanians vote Sunday in a constitutional referendum that many view as a verdict on the fragile Government that took office during the American invasion three years ago.
Some Panamanians believe a yes vote would help consolidate democratic changes introduced by President Guillermo Endara, the reluctant and easygoing leader of the coalition that won elections in May 1989 but could not take office. 
 He was installed after United States forces landed in Panama in December 1989 to apprehend the country's militaqry strongman, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who had been indicted in the United States on drug-trafficking charges.
Still, many Panamanians predict a huge no vote today, one that would amount to a firm rejection of Mr. Endara's Government. The President and aides are widely accused of ignoring Panama's social problems and hesitating to make decisions except under strong prodding from the American Ambassador, Deane R. Hinton.
Although Panama's economy is expanding rapidly, unemployment remains in double digits in many areas. Many citizens are also dissatisfied with the lawyerly style of Mr. Endara, a sharp departure from the passionate language of past leaders.
 
59 Changes Proposed
 Voters are to approve or reject with a single yes or no vote a package of 59 changes in the 1972 Constitution, including an amendment prohibiting Panama from having an army.
The prohibition would be a constitutional recognition of the de facto situation that has existed since United States forces forcibly disbanded the Panamanian Defense Forces and captured their leader, General Noriega. Since then, Panama has had only a police force.
But those lined up against the packing, including many who supported General Noriega's ouster, say the Government deserves a no vote regardless of the substance of the changes.
"We are voting no because the politicians who got into power with our help have turned out to be a total failure," said Tomas Herrera, a lawyer who was part of the public campaign against General Noriega and is now part of a group organizing a new political party.
A poll published Friday suggested that more than a third of the voters were still undecided and that the rest were almost evenly divided. But opponents of the constitutional package seem much more confident of victory than the supporters.
 
Frustration Is Cited
 Even the country's First Vice President, Ricardo Arias Calderon, whose Christian Democratic Party was the main architect of the constitutional proposals in the Legislative Assembly, suggested that a big no vote would signal that "the majority feel enormously frustrated for what the Government of Endara has not done."
Mr. Arias, who has been excluded from executive decision-making since last year after a dispute with the President, said a yes vote would reflect a national consensus on shifting Panamanian politics away from dictatorship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA PANAMA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; CONSTITUTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); APPROVALS (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (55%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY; ENDARA, GUILLERMO (PRES); HINTON, DEANE R (AMB) MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA (90%); GUILLERMO ENDARA (75%); RICARDO ARIAS CALDERON (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



492 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: Campaign Finances;
With Gifts From All Sides, Who Gets Clinton's Ear?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
From his convention address in July to his victory speech last week, Bill Clinton vowed to change the political landscape by reducing the role of big money and powerful special interests.
But now that he has won after raising more private money for a Presidential campaign than any contender in modern times, his biggest financial backers are preparing to call in their chits. And one difficulty for the President-elect is that many contributors are seeking laws and regulations at odds with one another. 
 Labor contributors clash with big business contributors, banking interests oppose those in the insurance and securities industries, and a wide array of donors in the health care business have competing ideas on the best way to change the nation's medical system.
"Clinton's challenge will be to successfully confront those who have put him in office," said Ellen S. Miller, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan organization that studies the influence of money in politics. "He faces the questions of what to do for all of those who have played in the pay-to-play system."
Mr. Clinton's fund-raisers took in more than $70 million in the general election campaign, shattering the record of $52 million set in 1988 by Michael S. Dukakis. Mr. Clinton also raised $26 million for the primaries, not counting matching money from the Government. He and his opponent, President Bush, also received $55 million each from the Federal Election Commission after their party conventions.
 
Disappointments Loom
 Federal election laws limit how much money can be given directly to campaign organizations. But donors can easily circumvent the limits by directing the money instead to the political parties and to state and local organizations that also work on behalf of the Presidential candidates. Likewise, limits on how much campaigns can spend are easily circumvented through the "soft money" loopholes, which permit unlimited spending on activities like voter drives and advertising that does not specifically use a candidate's name.
Even the people who raised the money have begun to acknowledge a fundamental truth that was generally unspoken before the election: taking so much money from so many interests makes it inevitable that many corporations and wealthy people who gave will wind up disappointed.
"There will be some who express the attitude that, gee whiz, me and my industry helped out and we're not getting better attention," said Donald R. Sweitzer, a Clinton fund-raiser who was the finance director for the Democratic National Committee in 1988. "But what I tell people is that what you get for your contribution is an ear. The candidate will listen to you, but then he will make a decision based on what he thinks is good for the public."
Many contributors, of course, give money precisely because they are seeking such access. Mr. Sweitzer added that it is a political fact of life that victorious candidates must balance the interests of competing contributors. But what makes Mr. Clinton's situation different is the unusually large number of groups expecting his help, particularly on economic and health care issues; his appeal worked to get dollars from a wider array of contributors and industries than most candidates.
"So many people got on the bandwagon as they saw that he was winning," said Gerry Klepner, legislative director of the American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees, one of the largest unions to support Mr. Clinton. "Everybody on both sides of virtually every issue ultimately decided to support him."
The President-elect has supported calls for stricter rules on lobbyists: establishing more rigorous requirements on disclosure of clients and stipulating a much longer waiting period between the time officials leave Government jobs and the time they can begin lobbying it. He has also said he supports legislation that would change the campaign finance rules and diminish the influence of big money in politics.
[On Friday Mr. Clinton issued guidelines for members of his transition team that imposed a six-month ban on lobbying after Inauguration Day and prohibited involvement in decisions that could affect a member's interests.]
 
Where Money Came From
 But over the last year, he and his senior campaign aides relied on money from many interests with issues before the Government. Indeed, Mr. Clinton's largest groups of contributors have been lawyers and lobbyists, who by some estimates have given more than $5 million. Many contributors do not identify themselves by occupation, but various research organizations match computerized lists of donors against lists of people in various industries and professions to make estimates of industry-by-industry donations.
Of those groups able to be more precisely identified, the biggest donors were unions and Wall Street concerns. Interestingly, the American Trial Lawyers Association, which Mr. Bush accused of having undue influence over the Clinton-Gore campaign, has been identified as giving only $550,000 out of a total of $12.9 million given by lawyers and lobbyists to both parties as of Aug. 31.
Of the 10 top contributors to the Democratic Party this year, four were union groups representing steel workers, educators, sheet metal laborers and government employees. By some estimates they gave more than 14 percent of the party's revenue, in the hope of shaping Mr. Clinton's legislative plans and having a say in the selection of his Cabinet and other top Government officials.
For the unions, which have been essentially frozen out of the White House for more than a decade, the trick is not to ask for too much at once but to focus on just a few issues.
 
A Position Evolves
 Top union employees met in Washington earlier this month to consider strategies to obtain legislation they have been seeking for years. They have already made it plain that they want the new President to endorse legislation that would extend and control health care costs and prevent employers from hiring permanent strike-replacement workers. They have also pushed for an economic package that would create more jobs by emphasizing spending on things like rebuilding bridges and roads.
Mr. Clinton was embraced relatively late in his campaign by many unions and has said he would support many of their proposals, particularly on creating jobs. But he has disagreed with them on some issues, too.
For instance, he said in the past that he would support repeal of a Federal provision that permits states to adopt anti-union work laws. But in a recent television interview he said he was satisfied with the law as it now stands, although he added that if Congress insisted on repealing the provision he would go along.
Health care interests have also sought to influence Mr. Clinton's plans. He and the Democrats have received more than $2 million from drug company executives, insurers and medical groups, each with differing views on how to overhaul the system.
The drug companies are against price regulations. The insurers are generally against Federal standards on private health insurance, including coverage and rates, as well as any attempt to restrict their ability to withhold insurance from sick or poor people. The American Medical Association has sought to make it mandatory for employers to cover all workers. And casualty insurers and doctors' groups favor limits on malpractice lawsuits, a move strongly opposed by the trial lawyers.
Mr. Clinton has proposed forming a new governmental body, composed of consumers and health care providers, to establish national limits on health spending. He has recommended that the Government guarantee insurance coverage for people who are not working and give tax credits to small employers to help offset the cost of health insurance. But many of the most important details of his plan remain undecided.
The investment interests on Wall Street, which Mr. Clinton courted with more success than any modern Democratic Presidential contender, are also nervously awaiting the new President's views on changing the financial system. Big banks are hoping he does away with the Depression-era laws that have made it hard for them to underwrite corporate securities. Investment houses would like to see them left in place. The insurance industry would like to see the new Administration retain the restrictions that prevent banks from branching into the insurance field.
And many of Mr. Clinton's Wall Street contributors are hoping he was not too serious when he made an issue of excessive executive pay. During the campaign, he said he hoped to discourage high salaries by limiting the ability of corporations to deduct as business expenses all salaries above $1 million.
"I told him he would do much better with the Wall Street crowd if he went a little easier on them," said one executive who would speak only anonymously because he did not want it known that he had switched allegiances and raised money for the Democrats. "He didn't listen. He raised a lot of money and got elected, but it's not too late for him to take it a little slower on us."

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Who Gave the Most," lists largest contributors to Presidential campaigns from Jan 1, 1991 to Aug. 31, 1992 (Source: Center for Responsive Politics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FINANCES ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



493 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Promise of Cleaning House Worries Some Career Civil Servants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
As a senior official of the Social Security Administration, Louis B. Hays staunchly defended Federal efforts to halt payment of disability benefits to tens of thousands of people.
More recently, he made concessions to California officials resisting Congressional efforts to set strict standards for nursing homes. Mr. Hays has carried out Reagan and Bush policies so vigorously, in fact, that Toby S. Edelman, a lawyer at the National Senior Citizens Law Center, said she had been astounded to learn that he was a career Government employee. 
 "He seemed to take a special delight in carrying out the policies" of the last 12 years, said Mrs. Edelman, who challenged many of those policies as a lawyer for nursing home residents and other elderly people.
Mr. Hays has worked for the Federal Government since 1973. He and many other career Government employees now worry about their fate under a Clinton Administration that has pledged to dismantle the Reagan-Bush legacy the employees helped create.
 
Possibly an Obstacle
 In theory at least, Civil Service laws protect the career employees against political reprisals. But the success of the new Administration will depend, in part, on its ability to enlist their support for Mr. Clinton's efforts.
Since those men and women are entrenched in Government because of their status as civil servants, "they may present quite an obstacle to the incoming Clinton Administration," said David C. Vladeck, a lawyer at the Public Citizen Litigation Group, a nonprofit law firm.
The career employees exist at crucial spots throughout the Government. As deputy director of the Federal Office of Population Affairs, Gerald J. Bennett has repeatedly tried to halt abortion counseling at family planning clinics that get Federal money.
As a top official at the White House Office of Management and Budget, James B. MacRae Jr. has tried to roll back Federal regulation of health, safety and the environment. As a senior member of the Foreign Service, Joseph G. Sullivan helped design and carry out Bush Administration policy in Central America, especially Nicaragua.
 
An Elite Corps
 The 7,400 career members of the Senior Executive Service form an elite corps of Government officials, supervising space shuttle flights, cancer research and the collection of economic data, among other tasks. In theory, they are insulated against the political shock waves of a Presidential election. They are not supposed to be demoted for any reason except poor performance or misconduct.
Indeed, the new Administration is not even supposed to shift such senior executives to new jobs until the end of a 120-day "get-acquainted period," during which the career employees have an opportunity to show their mettle to the political appointees. After that, the career executives can be assigned to other jobs in the same agency.
The purpose of these guarantees, as explained by a political appointee at the Bush White House, is to "prevent the new Administration from abruptly getting rid of members of the Senior Executive Service regarded as collaborators with the ancien regime."
 
Some Opposition
 Some longtime Federal employees quietly resisted Reagan and Bush policies. Others embraced those policies so enthusiastically that they were seen as full-fledged members of the Administrations.
Mr. Hays, the Social Security official, declined to discuss the work he had done over the last 12 years. "As a career civil servant," he said, "I believe it is inappropriate for me to comment during this transition period."
Mr. Vladeck, the Public Citizen lawyer, said that Mr. McRae, in his position at the budget office, "has been a zealous advocate for deregulation, has carried out the agenda of the Reagan-Bush Administration with unparalleled fervor and has a staff of young men and women who are true believers in that policy."
Carol A. Bonosaro, president of the Senior Executives Association, said that career employees who are seen as "cheerleaders" for one administration often pay a price when the other party takes office.
Despite protections in the Civil Service law, she said: "There is a real danger that a career executive will be sent to the turkey farm -- given a job with few responsibilities, few staff and no access to the boss. It is an incredible waste of talent and of taxpayers' money."
 
Doubts Expressed
 Within days after voters rejected President Bush, some civil servants acknowledged publicly for the first time that they had had doubts about Reagan and Bush policies they had tried to enforce.
Mr. Bennett, for example, said in an interview that he believed the ban on abortion counseling was "not good policy." But he said: "President Reagan and President Bush had ordered us to issue that regulation. Our private views become irrelevant once we get directions like that."
A Federal appeals court blocked enforcement of the rule on Nov. 3. Aides to President-elect Bill Clinton predict that he will rescind the ban on abortion counseling.
Mr. Bennett has worked at the Department of Health and Human Services and its predecessor agencies since 1967. "There is a risk in working closely with political people, especially if one is identified with controversial policies," he said. "But as a civil servant, I can carry out policies that I don't necessarily agree with."
 
Roles Carry Over
 Mr. Hays was closely identified with a Reagan Administration policy under which the Social Security agency ignored Federal court decisions it disliked. "We have a policy of either acquiescing in court decisions and following them, or nonacquiescing in court decisions and not following them," he explained to Congress in 1984.
After Federal judges, governors and members of Congress denounced this policy as lawless, Social Security officials ultimately agreed to abide by Federal court rulings.
No person has been more instrumental in efforts to curb the growth of Federal health and welfare programs than David K. Kleinberg, a 24-year employee of the Office of Management and Budget. Over the last decade, he has drafted hundreds of unpopular proposals to trim Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and welfare spending.
But he is a member of the Senior Executive Service, responsible for preparing the President's budget each year, and in the Clinton Administration he is likely to have the same responsibilities.
 
Praise From Bosses
 At the State Department, Mr. Sullivan served as director of the Office of Central American Affairs and as a Deputy Assistant Secretary. Paul S. Reichler, a Washington lawyer who represented the Sandinista Government of Nicaragua in the 1980's, described Mr. Sullivan as "a true believer, a willing implementer of Administration policy, who had a visceral hatred of the Sandinistas."
Mr. Sullivan, a Foreign Service officer for 22 years, said he could not respond without permission from the State Department, and the department did not give permission. But a department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, praised Mr. Sullivan, saying: "The duty of a Foreign Service officer is to serve the Administration. Our foreign policy had great success in bringing peace and democracy to Central America."
In February, Mr. Bush nominated Mr. Sullivan to be Ambassador to Nicaragua. At least two lawmakers raised questions about Mr. Sullivan's efforts to aid Nicaraguan politicians opposing the Sandinista Government. He never had a chance to answer those questions because the Senate held no hearing and the White House withdrew the nomination in September.
Mr. Sullivan is now working on several short-term projects, waiting for a new assignment from the new administration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerald J. Bennett, deputy director of the Federal Office of Population Affairs, said the ban on abortion counseling was "not good policy." But he said: "President Reagan and President Bush had ordered us to issue that regulation. Our private views become irrelevant." (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NICARAGUA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (64%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); NATIONAL SENIOR CITIZENS LAW CENTER (57%); NATIONAL SENIOR CITIZENS LAW CENTER (57%); PUBLIC CITIZEN LITIGATION GROUP (54%); PUBLIC CITIZEN LITIGATION GROUP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); NATIONAL SENIOR CITIZENS LAW CENTER (57%); NATIONAL SENIOR CITIZENS LAW CENTER (57%); PUBLIC CITIZEN LITIGATION GROUP (54%); PUBLIC CITIZEN LITIGATION GROUP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NICARAGUA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES LAWYERS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (91%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AGING (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); ELDER LAW (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ONCOLOGY (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); BUDGETS (68%); POLITICS (67%); FAMILY PLANNING (66%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (63%); SPACE SHUTTLE (50%); CANCER (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



494 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Home Foreclosures and Evictions Shattering Families

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
The number of homes in foreclosure in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut has almost doubled since the middle of last year, rising to levels not seen in decades.
The sudden surge in foreclosures, after a steady climb since the late 1980's, reflects the region's job losses, falling real-estate values and a growing backlog of cases that have clogged the courts, delaying some foreclosures for months and even years, lenders and lawyers say. 
 Moreover, these experts say, some lenders, facing closer scrutiny from Federal regulators, have become quicker to foreclose, or begin legal proceedings to take property, particularly in areas where home sales have rebounded. "They are clearing the books as soon as they can," said Doug Duncan, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington.
On the front lines, the impact is huge. "We used to have 10 foreclosure sales a year -- now we have 10 a week," said Capt. Mary A. Tierney, who handles the sales for the Hudson County Sheriff's Department in New Jersey.
 
Evictions 6 Days a Week
 Foreclosure-related evictions are also rising. In Hudson County, there were 217 by Nov. 5, compared to 189 for all 1991 and about 15 a year in the 1980's.
"I am scheduling evictions for March and April right now -- that's how backlogged we are," said Deputy Sheriff Michael Geerlof of Hudson County. "We also started doing them six days a week."
The emotional trauma for the families who lose their homes to foreclosure is incalculable. "It's devastating," said the owner of a three-bedroom condominium in Secaucus, N.J., who was evicted Monday.
The owner, who spoke on the condition that his name not be used, said that he bought his apartment for $350,000 in June 1989 and six months later lost his $300,000-a-year job with a corporate relocation firm. His monthly mortgage payment, including maintenance and taxes, was $3,500. "At the time, with the money I was making, $3,500 a month was nothing," he said. "But things change."
Now, at age 53, he makes $14,000 a year running his own small moving company; his wife is paid about $30,000 a year working for an airline. The couple is renting a two-bedroom apartment for $1,000 a month in the same complex where they owned a condominium.
Their former home will probably be sold by the Fortune Bank of Clearwater, Fla., which held the mortgage on it and bought it back for a nominal fee at a foreclosure auction earlier this year. The bank's asking price, according to a broker familiar with the property, may be "under $200,000."
 
A Glimmer of Good News
 "I got taken for a ride," the former owner said about his original purchase, adding that he hoped to relocate to the South. "Now, I just want to be a nice quiet old man."
Some economists see in the foreclosure data a glimmer of evidence that the worst of the recession may be behind New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. They note that the percentage of home loans that went into foreclosure in the three states dropped between the first and second quarters of 1992, as did the percentage of loans that were delinquent for 90 days or more.
"Foreclosure rates lag the economy," said Rae D. Rosen, the vice president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. She noted however that bottoming out should not be equated with a quick upturn. "Our economy may just be hitting bottom, though it's more likely that it will happen next year," she said.
The foreclosures involve everything from million-dollar suburban properties to low-priced condominium units. "We are talking about the middle class, even bankers -- people that have never been in this position before," said Leanor Clarke, a counselor at Westchester Residential Opportunities in White Plains, a nonprofit organization that advises people in financial distress.
"They are slow to react to problems, and when they do it is often too late," she added. "They can't accept that they are living in a different income class. They don't take it well."
Ms. Clarke said her organization's caseload of foreclosed mortgages has increased from about 50 in 1987 to about 500 today. "That's all I do nowadays," she added, "people in trouble with their mortgage."
 
New Jersey Has Worst Rate
 Figures from the National Mortgage Bankers Association for the quarter ending June 30 show that New Jersey had the nation's highest proportion of mortgages in foreclosure, 2.36 percent. That means that one in every 42 home loans was in foreclosure. A year earlier, the figure was 1.40, or one in every 71. For the second quarter of 1987, just before the stock market crash, the figure was 0.71, or one in every 141.
In Connecticut, which was surpassed only by New Jersey, Massachusetts and Oklahoma, the second quarter foreclosure rate was 1.59 percent, or one in every 63 loans. The rate for the same period in 1991 was 0.86, or one in every 116. For the second quarter in 1987, it was 0.20, or one in every 500.
In New York, which ranked eighth nationally, behind New Hampshire, Florida and Kansas, the figure was 1.43 percent, or one in every 70 loans. The rate for the same period a year earlier was 0.85, or one in every 118. For the second quarter of 1987, it was 0.46, or one in every 217.
Nationally, 1.04 percent of mortgage loans, or one in every 96, were in foreclosure in the second quarter, and that figure has deviated little since 1986.
 
Court Is Bank's Last Resort
 The statistics do not include foreclosures on cooperative apartments, which exist throughout the region but are concentrated in New York City. Co-op loans, which finance the purchase of stock rather than real estate, are subject to different regulations than mortgages and are not tallied by court clerks, bankers or bar associations.
The region's foreclosure figures -- which are more than double those recorded in the recessions of 1981-82 and 1973-74 -- also do not include loans that are more than 90 days delinquent but are not in foreclosure because lenders have worked out repayment agreements with the borrowers.
"Every bank is different, but, generally, going to court is the last thing you want to do," said Theodore J. Doll, the president of Washington Savings Bank in Hoboken, N.J., where 50 of its 2,000 home loans, or 2.5 percent, are in foreclosure and an additional 24, or 1.2 percent, are being repaid under "work-out" agreements.
Bank foreclosure policies vary widely, but usually the process does not begin until a borrower is at least 90 days delinquent. Once foreclosure is started, it may take several months before a judgment is reached in court. Then it may take several more months before the home can be seized or sold. These days, the property is usually sold at auction to the bank that made the mortgage, which usually pays only a nominal fee. Other bidders, if they succeed, are required to pay off the borrower's mortgage.
 
6 Months Before Summons
 The process is so lengthy that only one in seven loans that go into foreclosure result in judgments. And of those, only about one in seven result in evictions. Most borrowers who are subject to foreclosure sell their homes, especially if they have equity in the properties. If they cannot sell, a common problem these days, or if they have little or no equity, they often seek revised payment schedules or obtain stays through legal motions or bankruptcy protection.
"In New Jersey, it takes six months just to get a sheriff to issue a summons and two years before you can evict," said Dr. Paul S. Nadler, a professor of finance at Rutgers University in Newark. "There are judges out there who say, 'I don't want to make someone homeless.' "
In some cases, the length and complexity of foreclosure is an incentive for delinquent borrowers to remain in foreclosure; they can often continue to live in their homes free for months -- even years -- before they are evicted. "For those who have no intention of paying, they are getting a nice long free ride," said Sheila R. Shemtoz, the foreclosure clerk for the Sheriff's Department in Monmouth County, N.J.
When the foreclosed property is an apartment building, the tenants may have no knowledge of their landlord's problems. In late October, the Hudson County Sheriff evicted four tenants from an apartment building in Union City, N.J. The owner was still collecting rents, Deputy Sheriff Geerlof said, though the property had been in foreclosure since February. "One tenant even paid his November rent two days ago."
 
Vicious Circle With Taxes
 Job losses are a critical factor in foreclosures, lenders and lawyers say, because many borrowers in the mid-1980's who bought at inflated prices and had high-interest mortgages needed two incomes to make their payments. When one income disappeared through a job loss or divorce, they were unable to continue.
Some struggling borrowers also faced higher property taxes, sometimes as a result of a decline in a town's total assessed value. "It's not only killer mortgage payments some of these people face, it's killer taxes," said David M. Fleisher, a lawyer in White Plains who has represented lenders. On Long Island, for example, the total assessed value of property is declining because of lower home-sale prices, a wave of challenges to assessments and new rules removing some property from the tax rolls.
The impetus to foreclose may also be greater these days because in many parts of the region it is easier than it was in the late 1980's for a bank to sell a foreclosed home, largely because of the lower interest rates and appraised prices.
Some lenders have also been delaying foreclosures in the hope that the economy would improve and bail out delinquent borrowers. Today, though, many of those lenders say they see little economic improvement soon.
 
'Disaster for Everyone'
 Bankers also say that borrowers who made very low down payments and whose properties have lost value have little or no equity in their homes. In many instances, particularly involving condominiums and low-priced urban properties, the owners simply abandon them, lenders say.
Whatever the owner's attitude, foreclosure is "really a disaster for everyone involved," said Douglas Panetta, the owner of Bids-for-Barristers, an 18-month-old company in Tenafly, N.J., that has represented banks and lawyers in bidding at 2,500 foreclosure auctions. "Everyone loses -- the lender, the owner."
"Everyone but me," he added. "I'm thinking about franchising."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For families who lose their homes, the trauma can be devastating. A man talked to Deputy Sheriff Michael Geerlof as he was evicted from his condominium in Secaucus, N.J. At left is Ingrid Benson Higgins, a sales representative for a broker. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. 41)
 
Graph: "FORECLOSURES: A Hard-Hit Region," tracks percentage of home mortgages foreclosed in the second quarter of each year, 1982-1992, for New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and United States. (Source: National Bankers Association of America) (pg. 54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNE BANK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FORECLOSURES FORECLOSURE (95%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EVICTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); LAWYERS (73%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (73%); SHERIFFS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (67%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (66%); RELOCATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



495 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The President;
Friends Describe a Melancholy Bush

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOCA GRANDE, Fla., Nov. 14

 BODY:
Stoic and reclusive, President Bush has been steeling himself for his final weeks in power by driving golf balls and angling for snook and redfish through a vacation that his family and friends hoped would revive him from what they say is a state of despair.
The four days in this sleepy enclave, where he came to make peace with the nation's decision to replace him, were a needed respite for Mr. Bush, a trip suggested by his son George. 
 Friends and relatives say the President left the White House on Wednesday depressed and second-guessing his campaign. Mr. Bush has told some friends that he remained convinced through the final days of the race that he could pull off an upset victory, that he was bitter over how poorly his campaign had been run and that he believed the result had not been inevitable, despite the economy's disappointing performance.
Even as the polls in the final months consistently showed him trailing, Mr. Bush was described as having convinced himself that he would ultimately prevail. By one telling account, he dismissed the advice of Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, who in a campaign swing late in the race pleaded with Mr. Bush about campaigning harder. "Al, relax," the President is said to have told Mr. Simpson. "We're going to win this thing."
 
Candid Talk of Friends
 And in one of his last meetings with strategists, Mr. Bush is said to have looked up at one point and said to the pessimistic gathering: "Am I the only S.O.B. who thinks I'm going to win this thing?"
Supporters have been surprisingly candid about Mr. Bush's melancholy. Marilyn Quayle has told friends that Mr. Bush was shocked at the election result and that he was "having difficulty dealing with it."
The President's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, has told some supporters that the loss had hit Mr. Bush "very hard" and that he "has been feeling dreadful." And a brother, Jonathan Bush, said the President "is very disappointed."
Thomas Ashley, a friend in Washington who has spoken to Mr. Bush several times since Election Day, said: "He's gone through a real suffering period. He went to Florida bone tired and physically and emotionally spent, with the feeling he could've done better."
Mr. Ashley recalled a telephone conversation with the President before the vacation.
"I said to him, 'The way I look at it, with the economy what it was, you couldn't win,' " Mr. Ashley said. "He said, 'I think if I had run a good campaign, it would not have been that way at all.' " When Mr. Ashley told the President that he must have felt as if his insides had been kicked out, Mr. Bush responded: 'Present tense.'
Mr. Ashley said that it was not in Mr. Bush's nature to blame his campaign advisers for the defeat, but that he personally bore the weight of the loss.
 
Gloom of a Funeral
 Others said Mr. Bush felt as bereft as someone who had lost a close relative and was having difficulty even talking about it. In the few public comments about the defeat, the President has spoken in funereal terms, challenging what he said was the talk about "the demise" of the party and raising concern that a Republican dinner earlier this week would resemble "a wake."
He has tried to conceal his disappointment with humor, comparing his fate to that of Winston Churchill, who in defeat spoke of being granted "the Order of the Boot."
Mr. Bush's post-election blues have stood in marked contrast to the upbeat mood of Vice President Dan Quayle, who still believes he could have a future in politics if he so decides, and who was described by friends as feeling good about himself and his performance in the campaign.
Barbara Bush, meanwhile, has told friends that she is angry, particularly at the White House chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, whom she believes frittered away several chances of turning the race around.
While Mr. Bush still occupies the Oval Office for 66 days after he returns to Washington on Sunday, an aide says he has become so demoralized that for all practical purposes he is already in semi-retirement. Unless there is some crisis, he is expected to maintain a low profile.
In another sign of the dismantling of the Administration, the President's office of legal counsel last week circulated a memorandum on ethical rules to be followed as officials move back into private life.
Mr. Bush has not decided what he will do after he leaves office, although he appears headed for Texas, where Mrs. Bush will soon be searching for their new home. The Bushes had listed their official residence as a hotel suite in Houston, but they are expected to give that up. Their vacation home in Kennebunkport, Me., is not fully winterized.
Aides say the President's remaining days in Washington will be mostly ceremonial. One of his last decisions will be whether he will personally deliver a State of the Union Message in January or simply send a written report to Capitol Hill.
 
Maintaining Vigorous Schedule
 It was a sign of his new life as a lame duck President that one local newspaper, The Sun Herald, noted his arrival here with the front-page headline "The First Snowbirds." The reference is to retirees who come to Florida in the winter and go back north in the summer. The Bushes have been staying at the waterfront compound of Bayard Sharp, an heir to the Du Pont fortune and a relative of Mr. Bush's friend Will Farish.
Mr. Bush tried to maintain his usual vigorous schedule, rising some mornings at 6 o'clock to jog through the banyan-lined streets of a town that was once the Gulf Coast gathering place for the likes of the Astors and the Vanderbilts and the Du Ponts. Later he would bounce briskly from one sport to another.
Still, there were signs of detachment. When the President returned from a fishing excursion with Brent Scowcroft, his national security adviser, his mood seemed to match the sentiment expressed in the names of three neighborhood streets: Dam If I Know, Dam If I Care and Dam If I Will.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marlin Fitzwater, the President's spokesman, relaxing on Friday in front of the Gasparilla Inn in Boca Grande, Fla. He accompanied President Bush on his four-day retreat to the Gulf Coast. (Bruce Fine/Fort Meyers News-Press via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



496 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Progress Is Slow In New Efforts To Find Bombs

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Nearly four years after the bombing of a Pan Am flight over Scotland started a search for better ways to find hidden bombs, the widespread use of more advanced detectors is still years away.
Both the families of victims of the bombing, which killed 270 people, and top aviation security officials say there are signs of progress but the prototype bomb detectors being tested in airports have not been developed as swiftly as they had hoped. 
 Adm. Clyde Robbins, retired, the Transportation Department's top security and intelligence official, said in an interview that he had hoped to have high-performance detectors in place at "the most sensitive airports" in two years. He said it would probably be four or five years before they were widespread.
Admiral Robbins was in Albany today to meet with relatives of those who died in the Pan Am bombing to discuss a research program on which millions of dollars are being spent each year, largely as a result of political pressure from the families.
 
Never Happen Fast Enough
 "Of course these things never happen as fast as you like," he said in an interview before the meeting. "It has taken us longer to get the equipment on the street than we would like, but it is very developmental, and much of this equipment is state of the art."
Elizabeth Philipps, whose 20-year-old daughter Sarah was killed in the Pan Am bombing, said the victims' relatives were monitoring the Federal Aviation Administration's research programs closely, sitting in as observers on research committees.
"We feel that progress has been made, but that the pace has been far too slow," she said. "We feel that the airlines have had a much louder voice in the economics of the improvements than airline passengers have."
Shortly after the bombing, the F.A.A. said it would require all big airports to install a new kind of bomb detector, known as a thermal neutron analyzer, which bombards luggage with radiation and analyzes the atomic particles that are emitted in reaction. Six were built and tested, but their performance fell short of expectations. In 1990 Congress told the F.A.A. not to require any detectors until they had been tested and proven reliable at detecting small quantities of plastic explosives.
Since then several new approaches for detecting bombs have been explored by various companies, with financing from the F.A.A.
 
Standards to Meet
 This month the F.A.A. for the first time told prospective manufacturers of new equipment what standards their machines would have to meet to be certified for use at airports.
The performance requirements call for equipment to be automatic, sounding an alarm to alert an operator when bomb material passes through. That way, an operator's judgment would not be needed, as it is with existing X-ray equipment used at airports, which cannot reliably detect plastic explosives.
For security reasons, the agency did not disclose the reliability rate required of new equipment and the size of explosives that must be detectable.
The agency said that since it was unlikely any single technology would meet the performance requirements, combinations of existing technologies will probably have to be used until some breakthrough is made.
In the next two months, according to F.A.A. documents, the agency will begin testing one promising combination of technologies at the terminals of Delta Air Lines and American Airlines at Miami International Airport, using both advanced X-ray machines and vapor-detection equipment that mechanically sniffs out bombs. The trials will include both F.A.A. test baggage and actual passenger baggage.
 
Tests Being Planned
 Other tests are being planned at airports in Newark, San Francisco and other cities.
Many devices being assessed have their origins in medicine.
Invision Technologies Inc., for example, has developed the CTX-5000, a compact unit that could be used at airline check-in counters. It uses advanced computer-assisted tomography scanning, like the CT scan technology widely used in medicine.
The device scans a piece of luggage from all sides, draws a 3-dimensional cross-section and pinpoints the location of explosive material.
Another company, Vivid Technologies Inc., uses an X-ray analysis technique first developed by Hologic Inc. for measuring bone densities.
And Scan-Tech Security Inc. has developed a way of recognizing the spectra emitted when certain chemicals are bombarded with X-rays, using an advanced computer processing technology known as artificial neural networks. Put simply, this is a way of stringing electronic circuits together like brain cells, so that a computer can in effect learn to recognize patterns rather than being programmed.
Experts said one advantage of these approaches is that the bomb detectors could also search out other substances, like illegal drugs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); EXPLOSIVES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



497 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Taxpayer Revolt in Colorado Vote Raises Alarm About Lost Services

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 14

 BODY:
It was potentially the most radical change in any state government this year, and it did not involve a candidate.
Colorado voters approved a measure that stripped the power of state and local governments to increase taxes. Any increase in taxes -- from the state income tax to a school district's mill levy -- now requires approval of the voters. 
 "This was the most important ballot initiative in the country," said David Keating, executive vice-president of the National Taxpayers Union, a conservative anti-tax group.
The measure, known as the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, has alarmed state and local governments, who warn that services could be deeply cut and schools left in the lurch.
Gov. Roy Romer, a Democrat, who campaigned against the measure, has predicted that schools could see a 12 percent drop in financing.
 
Hope for a National Model
 "This takes the issues of taxation away from representative government," said Mr. Romer, who added that "it's very difficult" to win voter approval for tax increases.
Colorado has been a harbinger before, as a leader in the move to limit the terms of officeholders, an effort that passed in 14 states in the recent elections. And groups that seek to limit government's taxing power say the state measure will serve as a model for similar efforts around the country.
With a few exceptions, voters around the country this year voted soundly against new taxes.
South Dakota rejected a state income tax. California repealed a tax on snack foods and rejected a proposal to increases taxes on the wealthy. Voters in Colorado also turned down a proposal to increase the sales tax by a penny. And Arizona voted to require a two-thirds majority of the Legislature to increase taxes, joining 20 other states with tax limitation measures.
 
Measure Defeated Twice
 The exceptions came in Idaho and Michigan, where voters rejected curbs on property taxes.
The Colorado measure, which was led by Douglas Bruce, a Colorado Springs real estate investor, had been defeated twice before. The amendment won 54 percent to 46 percent.
"It's our money, and if we want bigger government, we'll pay for it,"Mr. Bruce said. "But we don't want it to be crammed down our throat."
He said he was outspent 3 to 1, and he complained that opponents had tried to scare voters.
"I'm no anarchist," he said. "I'm a short-haired, middle-aged bachelor with a paunch living in the suburbs with a puppy. I'm not a threat. I just don't like government paternalism. Can't we decide for ourselves what taxes should be? Does Big Brother know what's best for us?"
The measure is more comprehensive than California's Proposition 13, the 1978 measure that cut property taxes but did not remove the power of the Legislature to pass increases in sales and income taxes. The Colorado measure does not impose a tax cut.
"This is the best tax and spending measure that we have seen -- period," said Mr. Keating of the Taxpayers Union.
The measure requires that the state save 1 percent of its budget for three years to be used for emergencies. But the Legislature must declare an emergency before it spends the reserve.
In addition, it puts a cap on spending. Governments can spend no more than they did the previous year, with an adjustment for inflation and population growth. And the measure forbids any special elections to decide tax increases. Votes on new taxes can only be held during the general elections.
Local governments officials say the measure would effectively keep them from accepting state or Federal grants, in some cases, since the money would exceed the spending cap.
The tax measure threatens to put the state's tourism agency out of business. The tourism board, which has been financed by the Legislature with a tax that expires every five years, runs out of money in July. And the next general election will not be held until November of 1993.
"We would be the only state without a national tourism promotion campaign," said Deborah Milo Cornelius, a spokeswoman for the tourism board. Tourism, the second-largest industry in Colorado, after manufacturing, generated $5.6 billion here last year.
For local governments, the tax measure could stop projects in mid-stream. Mike Gay, the director of public works in Fort Morgan, said the town's new sewer project cannot continue without a tax increase. The current system is out of compliance with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency.
And Jim Collard, the city manager in Brush, said the measure could thwart the ability of towns to negotiate tax incentives with new businesses.
"This thing has a catchy slogan, but it's bad government," he said. "When you've got to wait a year for a vote on taxes, you'd have to delay negotiations with a new business. And they won't wait. They'll go somewhere else."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (57%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (57%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; REFERENDUMS TAXES & TAXATION (94%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); APPROVALS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TERM LIMITS (75%); BALLOTS (73%); SALES TAX (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SUBURBS (67%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (61%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; ROMER, ROY (GOV) ROY R ROMER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



498 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Team in Hanoi Studies Relics of the Missing

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Up a musty stairwell in a museum commemorating the triumphs of the People's Army of Vietnam, a team of American investigators sit hunched over laptop computers and a camera tripod, trying to end what for many American families is the continuing torment of the Vietnam War.
Every half hour or so, a group of Vietnamese museum workers slowly make their way up the steps, lugging another assortment of relics collected from the enemy, the United States, in that long-ago war. 
 The relics examined by the Pentagon investigators one morning this week included an American-issue military parachute, a pocket flare gun, an airman's helmet with the wearer's name on it, a blue-felt Air Force captain's cap, a plastic flap from the fuel tank of an American military jet, a single pink cotton handkerchief and a pair of red-and-white socks -- all of it hidden away for years in unlit storerooms in the Museum of the People's Army, the national war museum in Hanoi.
 
2,265 Still Missing
 This, the American investigators say, is what they have been waiting for.
If they are correct, these bits and pieces of metal, rubber and cloth -- along with thousands of black-and-white photographs stored elsewhere in the museum -- will allow the United States to determine the fate of many of the 2,265 Americans who are still officially listed as unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.
It was only last month, after an American researcher alerted the Pentagon to the treasure trove in the museum, that the Hanoi Government agreed to allow a Defense Department team to come in to study the full collection.
 
Breakthrough Is Seen
 The commander of the American investigators now working in Vietnam, Lieut. Col. Jack Donovan, described Vietnam's new open-access decree as a breakthrough.
"I've heard this described as the central biggest development since 1973 in terms of accounting for missing Americans," he said. It was in 1973 that United States ground forces pulled out of Vietnam.
Until last week, Americans investigators had only guessed at what might be found in the war museum, three blocks from Ho Chi Minh's mausolem in the heart of the Vietnamese capital. Only a small fraction of the articles were actually on public display in the museum, which draws a steady stream of visitors. Now they know it contains personal items and military gear taken from scores, and perhaps hundreds, of American soldiers, pilots and sailors who were captured or killed in North Vietnamese territory.
"My gut feeling is that our work is going to be very valuable," said James Minihan, a 26-year-old Navy petty officer from Jacksonville, N.C., who spends his days at the museum tapping away on the keyboard of a laptop computer, cataloging the relics as they are placed on the floor on a white sheet of paper and photographed. "The Vietnamese have kept very complete records on this material."
Vietnam is eager for normal diplomatic relations with the United States and is desperate for Washington to lift the economic embargo it has imposed since the end of the war. Since 1988, it has allowed Pentagon investigators into the country to search for the remains of Americans missing from the war. The Defense Department opened an office in Hanoi last year.
 
No Single Depository
 There is no single repository in Vietnam for wartime army records and artifacts gathered from American soldiers. Instead, records and relics are scattered throughout the country in dozens of war museums and archives, some built by individual provinces and cities to commemorate their local contribution to the war against the Americans and, earlier, against the French.
The Americans, who until last month had been granted access to only a few museums and archives in Vietnam, are now discovering how meticulous the Vietnamese record-keeping was.
In the Army Museum in Hanoi, the well-preserved relics range from military penknives and wristwatches to bicycle-sized chunks of jagged metal from the wings of B-52 bombers shot down over North Vietnamese territory. Virtually all of the items inspected so far have been carefully tagged to show where and when they were found.
The artifacts may help the Pentagon determine exactly where individual soldiers died and how, or where American planes went down and whether their pilots survived. That in turn will help American search teams decide which areas of the Vietnamese countryside should be combed for human remains.
 
'Pieces of the Puzzle'
 "The end result of work does not take place here in Hanoi," said Chief Warrant Officer Gary Fulton of West Des Moines, another of the investigators working at the museum. "We're getting pieces of the puzzle that will take us back out into the field."
As he spoke, a Vietnamese museum worker carefully laid an American aviator's helmet on the paper-covered floor so it could be photographed from several different angles.
"That could be valuable," said Chief Fulton, motioning to a small, worn name tag that had been affixed to the outside of the helmet, apparently by the airmen who had once worn it. Mr. Fulton showed the helmet to a reporter on condition that the name not be used.
Some of the relics inspected by the investigators will be of no use in determining the fate of missing Americans. They were taken from prisoners of war who were freed by the Vietnamese years ago, or they are so innocuous that it will be impossible to link them to any one person.
"We were given a brown leather wallet -- empty, no identification, no pictures inside," said Petty Officer Eric Frandsen, 28, of Lansing, Mich., the team's photographer. "I photographed it. I don't know how valuable something like that would be."
 
Many Bear Identification
 But many other artifacts turned over so far by the Vietnamese do bear a name, a serial number or some other notation that could help American investigators tie them to a missing soldier or pilot, or to a particular battle, crash or ambush.
The Pentagon team has inspected American-issue military parachutes and life vests in recent days that, while they have no name tags, are stamped with a series of inspection dates, which should make it possible to determine with some accuracy when the survival equipment was used by a serviceman.
The names and other details can be checked against information stored in the laptop computers carried by the American investigators. The computers hold a detailed electronic dossier on each of the 2,265 Americans -- 2,262 men, 3 women -- who remain missing in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. Of these the vast majority are assumed to have been killed in combat, and are listed as missing because circumstantial evidence of death has yet to be backed up with physical proof.
The Pentagon investigators are still in the very early stages of their work, and they are reluctant to guess how long the inspections in Hanoi and elsewhere in the country will take.
 
Wary of Raising Hopes
 They are even more reluctant to estimate how many of the 2,265 cases of missing Americans might be solved by their work. They say their optimism, which is palpable here, might raise false hopes among the families of the missing,
"This work is going to help us answer questions concerning the fate of a number of missing Americans," said Robert J. Destatte, a Defense Intelligence Agency analyst whose career has been dedicated since 1979 to the search for missing Americans. "I'm confident we're moving in the right direction. But it's going to be a long process."
Some of his colleagues say the search for missing Americans is likely to continue for years.
The Vietnamese Government has already provided the Bush Administration with the thousands of photographs of dead Americans taken by Vietnamese military photographers during the war and stored in the People's Army Museum.
 
Librarian Was the Key
 The exact sequence of events that led Hanoi to turn over the photographs and to announce last month that it would grant the Pentagon full access to the war archives remains a mystery, although it is one clearly linked to the unusual relationship between the Vietnamese Government and an American researcher, Ted Schweitzer, who was given access to photographic archives at the Army Museum earlier this year.
According to the Vietnamese, Mr. Schweitzer, a 50-year-old librarian, was allowed to rummage through the museum's collection after he told museum directors that he was writing a book about the war. Vietnamese officials say they were later surprised and irritated when he turned over the results of his research to the Pentagon.
During a search of the archives, Mr. Schweitzer found thousands of photos of American servicemen who had been captured or killed by the Vietnamese. Last summer, after telling associates that he had failed to interest New York publishers in a book, Mr. Schweitzer turned the photographs over to the Defense Department.
Mr. Schweitzer is now back in Hanoi, this time as a Pentagon consultant. But the other American investigators here say they rarely see him and know almost nothing about him. He did not respond to repeated requests for an interview.
 
Hiding Material Denied
 Mr. Schweitzer's disclosure of the photos raised new questions about whether Hanoi has been hiding information that might have resolved the fate of missing Americans years ago.
Le Van Bang, director of American affairs at the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry, said that material in the museums had always been available to the United States, but that Pentagon investigators had chosen to conduct their investigation on a case-by-case basis -- requesting information about a specific soldiers instead of requesting access to everything in the museum archives. "We were not hiding anything," he said.
But Pentagon investigators working in Vietnam say the recent disclosures prove that they have been misled for years by the Vietnamese. They add, however, that the new Vietnamese pledge of cooperation is so important that there is nothing to be gained by attacking the Vietnamese publicly.
"If there was a misunderstanding with the Vietnamese, it is not so important now as the fact that we have an agreement that pleases everybody," Mr. Destatte said. "Certainly it pleases everybody on our side."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American investigator, Eric Frandsen, photographing a pair of boots in Hanoi, Vietnam, that belonged to an American pilot. (Reuters) (pg. 1); Pentagon investigators have finally been allowed to investigate the relics of American soldiers that have been hidden away for years in storerooms in the Museum of the People's Army, the national war museum in Hanoi. James Minihan, a Navy petty officer, catalogued the objects. (Hoang Dinh Nam for The New York Times) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (97%); VIET NAM (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (97%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (97%); VIET NAM (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (97%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; MISSING IN ACTION; PRISONERS OF WAR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; PHOTOGRAPHY MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARMIES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; DONOVAN, JACK (LT COL)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



499 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 53; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL NOTES;
A New Director of Legislative Traffic

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
Bernard R. Sullivan will take on in January what is in many ways the ultimate political-insider job at the Connecticut State Capitol: chief of staff in the office of the Speaker. Mr. Sullivan says he's had a lifetime of career preparation: as a policeman.
Mr. Sullivan, who is 49 years old and a Democrat, was chief of police for Hartford, state Police Commissioner and director of security for the Hartford Insurance Group. 
 He has never worked for any legislative body, but he'll probably be feeling the heat soon enough. The newly elected Speaker, Thomas D. Ritter, a Democrat from Hartford, said recently in announcing the appointment that one of Mr. Sullivan's main duties would be to act as point man on whether to expand legalized gambling in the state to raise tax revenues.
Lawmakers say that gambling will be one of the big questions facing the state next year. Mr. Sullivan said it is a course the state might have to take if no new economic engine emerges to pull Connecticut out of its long slump.
But he promises no rough stuff.
"I'm not a tough-guy cop," he said. "I've never thought of myself as a tough-guy cop. Certainly there are times in my life when I have been in combat positions, but that's not me, that's not my life. I've been a consensus builder."
 
Raise for Legislators?
 Could New York's lawmakers, already the highest paid in the country, possibly be angling to give themselves a raise during this recession? The answer in the State Capitol is no, no, no a thousand times no . . . well, maybe.
Both the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, a Republican, and Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, a Democrat, say they are vigorously opposed to a pay raise, especially since they have had to cut billions of dollars from the state budget and eliminate 10,000 jobs. But neither side would rule out consideration of a pay raise at a special session proposed for next month.
Under the constitution, lawmakers can only raise salaries for a subsequent two-year legislature, meaning that if they did not act in December, there could be no pay raise until the next legislature convenes in January 1995. Lawmakers' pay was last raised in July 1987, from $43,000 to the current $57,000.
Lawmakers who might -- if their arms were twisted -- support the pay raise suggest that passing it now, soon after the election, would at least give constituents lots of time to get over it, or forget about it, before the next election. Or, as Assembly Minority leader C. D. (Rapp) Rappleyea said regarding a dead-of-night pay-raise vote in December 1984: "If you're going to walk the plank, you might as well do it in shallow water."
 
Money for the Shore?
 The political infighting between Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat, and the overwhelmingly Republican legislature has become such a staple of New Jersey government that even when the two sides agree, they disagree. The most recent squabble involves a $15 million appropriation for repair of shore areas devastated by coastal storms. The appropriation whisked through the Legislature this week but the Governor, who is a big booster of shore tourism and a keen advocate of repairing storm damage, might veto the bill anyway.
The reason is that the Republicans, while stipulating that the money would come out of real-estate transfer fees, have not said what, if anything, they would cut to free up that money.
Earlier this year, over the Governor's veto, the Republicans cut $608 million in revenues out of his proposed budget by reducing the sales tax a penny, forcing deep spending cuts and reducing the unappropriated surplus to almost nothing.
Since the $15 million now goes into the general fund, taking it for shore protection will mean cutting something else, or raising some more revenue elsewhere. The Governor says the Republicans should figure out where to get the money; they say he is being needlessly stubborn.
 
A Loser's Lessons
 Chris Powell, managing editor of The Journal Inquirer, an irreverent tabloid in Manchester, rose from the trenches this spring to run for the State Senate as muckraker-turned-politician.
Although ostensibly a Republican, Mr. Powell often had as many unkind words on the campaign trail for his own party as he did for Democrats. He lost. Now he's back at his newspaper job, lessons learned, but anger toward the system alive and well.
"It confirmed my impressions of everything I thought was wrong," Mr. Powell said.
One of Mr. Powell's main problems as a candidate, he said, was that he refused to be pigeonholed. On the issue of abortion, for example, he gave a typically complicated response: yes on a woman's right to have an abortion, but also yes on whether parents should be notified if their teen-age daughter sought an abortion.
Even on what some might consider minor issues, Mr. Powell refused to give the desired answer. A political action committee for librarians, for example, sent a questionnaire to candidates asking if they promised to support the budget for the State Library Board.
Mr. Powell wrote back saying he could promise nothing, and that every appropriation would have to be considered in light of other budget requests.
"Even they wanted you to take a mindless pledge," he said.
Still, Mr. Powell has learned the politician's answer when asked if he would run again for public office. "I don't expect to again, but I would never say never," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD INSURANCE GROUP OF CANADA (57%); REPUBLICAN&ASSEMBLY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN&ASSEMBLY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GAMING (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, BERNARD R; JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



500 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Court Overrules a Public Shaming

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Indiana's second-highest court has ruled that the judge of a lower court overstepped his bounds in ordering an unemployed man who had failed to pay child support to stand on a courthouse lawn and hold a sign that said, "Need Job to Support Children."
The decision, issued Thursday by a unanimous three-judge panel of the Indiana Court of Appeals, said the order had exposed the 45-year-old unemployed father, Clarence William Epley 3d, to public humiliation and therefore constituted abusive discretion by the sentencing judge, Eugene N. Chipman Sr. of Marshall County Superior Court. 
 The case dates from September 1991, when Judge Chipman found that Mr. Epley had fallen $1,475 behind in support payments for his three children. Mr. Epley was jailed until he could come up with $1,000 of that sum and was then ordered by Judge Chipman to find employment by holding the sign outside the courthouse.
Mr. Epley did carry the sign for a few days and then found a job, and so Thursday's decision carried little practical effect for him. But a lawyer who was a friend of Mr. Epley's father decided to appeal the order and got support in that appeal from the Indiana Civil Liberties Union.
In striking down the order, the appeals court said it was "a throwback to the days of stockades and conjures up images of Puritans who fell from grace and were forced to wear scarlet letters upon their chests."
Writing for the court, Judge William I. Garrard said that the evidence showed Mr. Epley to have been "less than diligent in securing employment as a means toward meeting his support obligations" and that in such cases trial judges have freedom to fashion a remedy.
But requiring Mr. Epley to wear the sign went too far, the court said. "Although the measure was ostensibly imposed to coerce Epley to obtain employment," Judge Garrad wrote, "it also improperly subjected him to public ridicule, embarrassment and humiliation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIANA UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS APPEALS (92%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); JUDGES (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE WILLIAM EPLEY (94%); EUGENE N CHIPMAN SR (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



501 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: A Company Move That Hasn't Irked the Neighbors

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WHITE HOUSE STATION, N.J., Nov. 11

 BODY:
In an era when states and municipalities fight winner-take-all battles for corporate investment, the story of Merck & Company's plan to move its headquarters from gritty Rahway to rural Hunterdon County is working against the script, and leaving everyone smiling.
Merck, a pharmaceutical giant that likes to remind visitors that it has been judged "America's Most Respected Corporation" for six years running by Fortune Magazine, is orchestrating the move with an all-absorbing finesse. It has deployed long-range planning, careful diplomacy and a heavy dose of corporate munificence to soothe the familiar fears of abandonment that factory towns express when a corporate citizen makes a move. 
 Far from abandoning Rahway, Merck planned its headquarters move to coincide with a reassuring spate of new investment in the city.
"As you can well imagine, when a move like this is planned, I think the community might feel initially some uncertainty as to what happens to them," John M. Bloomfield, a Merck spokesman, said. "We have worked very hard to reassure Rahway and Union County that Merck intends to remain an integral part of their community."
 
A Popular New Neighbor
 As for this tiny municipality in Readington Township, in the soft foothills of the Appalachian chain, the arrival of the nearly completed Merck heaquarters on a secluded hilltop, once a dairy farm, has meant nothing less than having a quiet, clean and very rich neighbor move in.
It is a neighbor who not only keeps to itself, in the sense of requiring few municipal services, but also promises to provide a few million dollars for housing for low-income residents and old people and a new truck to the volunteer fire house and to pay about a third of the township's annual tax bill to boot.
"This is a win-win situation for everyone," said Theresa Martin, Readington Township mayor.
The railroad depot that gave White House Station its name is now a picturesque library. Still, that's where the New Jersey Transit train to and from Newark stops four times a day, and it is the name that Merck has chosen as its address.
Josie Weber, the librarian, has seen to it that at least one of the commuters has a key to the former station so that if it is raining, travelers can let themselves into the juvenile section to wait for the train.
 
Going-Away Presents
 Merck's 1.8 million square-foot building already houses nearly 500 of the 1,500 employees, including all of top management, who will have moved from the Rahway corporate headquarters by the end of March.
But in Rahway, new research labs will be installed in the old executive suites, into which Merck plans to move most of the 1,100 technicians now occupying rented laboratory space in Woodbridge.
In addition, in Rahway Merck will build a 65,000-square foot pilot plant, where research ideas are translated into manufacturing processes, a new biological support laboratory, and a new day-care center for about 120 children of employees, to match the child-care center installed at Whitehouse Station, Mr. Bloomfield said.
The new investments in Rahway will add $20 million in taxable property to a corporate tax bill that already amounts to $3.2 million annually, equal to 10 percent of the city budget, said Rahway's Mayor, James Kennedy.
In addition, Merck donated $40,000 to fund a study on improving Rahway's downtown business district, it paid $126,000 to help cover the cost of paving some roads adjoining its complex, and it put new scientific equipment in Rahway High School, the alma mater of Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, the corporate chairman.
 
Not Losing Any Sleep
 The departure of the executive will not empty Rahway's residential areas either, Mr. Kennedy said. Ten percent of the firm's 4,200 employees in Rahway live in the city, he noted, but few of those residents are among the executives moving to White House Station.
"Headquarters doesn't add much to our local economy, so we're not really losing any sleep over the move," Mr. Kennedy said. "Realistically, most of the executives already live west of the first range of the Watchung mountains. They'll just have an easier commute."
Mr. Kennedy also credits Merck executives with helping to persuade New Jersey Transit, the state-owned commuter system, to put a new $15 million train station in Rahway.
"They have always had a good community conscience," he said.
In Readington Township, 45 minutes west of Rahway on Interstate 78, Merck officials spent a year attending planning board hearings before presenting their first development plans. A year later, in 1989, the plan for a project the township values at about $220 million was approved.
 
Company Did Its Homework
 "One of our local developers came up to me and asked, 'How come Merck got its permits through so quickly?' " Mayor Martin recalled in an interview. "Part of the answer is that this is exactly the kind of project the town was looking for, but another part of the answer is that they really did their homework."
In the end, the corporation needed only two zoning variances, Mrs. Martin said: one for the height of the mountain-hugging complex, and the other for the helipad.
The taxes that a town's biggest taxpayer pays are subject to negotiations, Mrs. Martin said. Still, she said, Merck will probably pay between $2 million and $3 million a year into an annual township budget that is now $7 million, most of it for schools, and local residents are hoping that the new money will mean a tax cut for everyone else.
"I don't know if we will be able to do that," Mrs. Martin said, "but if it turns out that we could reduce taxes, believe me, we would."
Anyone looking for the down side of a major corporate move to a small rural setting can usually rely on someone at least to object to the added traffic, and a study of the traffic impact from the new project did indeed conclude that the the county road access to Merck's driveway would have to be widened.
 
Mass Transit Stressed
 But the two sides are trying something else first. "We didn't want the road widened and they didn't want to pay for it," Mrs. Martin said, "so we worked out a plan with Merck and New Jersey Transit that stresses mass transit for the Merck people. If we find out that doesn't work, Merck will still have to widen the road."
If anyone is disappointed, it may be real estate brokers like Georgean Babey who hoped the Merck move would bring new demand for local housing. It hasn't, she said.
"I moved in two vice presidents two years ago, but I don't see much else coming from them," she said. "Most of the Merck people already own homes close enough for a commute."
Meanwhile, Barry Clark, the Readington town manager, has a hope that when Merck brings foreign executives to visit its new headquarters, they will leave a new sense of the country.
"I go into the New York City all the time, and I see a lot of foreign visitors there," he said. "I hope they will start coming out here, and realize that America is more than Times Square and oil refineries along the New Jersey Turnpike."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The lobby of Merck & Company's new headquarters in Hunterdon County, N.J. The pharmaceutical company plans to install new research labs in the old executive suites of its old headquarters in Rahway, N.J. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Map fo New Jersey, indicating White House Station and Rahway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (95%); MRK (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC MERCK & CO INC (95%); RAHWAY&UNION COUNTY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCK & CO INC RAHWAY&UNION COUNTY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RAHWAY (NEW JERSEY); WHITE HOUSE STATION (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); MAYORS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); TRAINS (66%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); PUBLIC HOUSING (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER JAMES KENNEDY (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



502 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 54; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Tell Utilities to Cut Spending

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 14

 BODY:
State utility regulators have ordered Connecticut Light and Power and United Illuminating to reduce spending on conservation to slow down increases in utility bills.
The State Department of Public Utility Control cited the poor economy, higher rates and a surplus of electricity in its decision on Friday. 
 The regulators ordered $5 million to $10 million cut next year from Connecticut Light and Power's $53 million budget for programs that help commercial and residential customers use less electricity.
For United Illuminating, the regulators approved conservation budgets of $12.1 million for next year and $14 million for 1994, less than the company had requested.
At least one environmental group chided the decision. Deborah Smith, a staff lawyer with Conservation Law Foundation, called it "bad policy" and "regressive."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO; UNITED ILLUMINATING CO CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO (58%); CONSERVATION LAW FOUNDATION (55%); STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO; UNITED ILLUMINATING CO CONSERVATION LAW FOUNDATION (55%); STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RATES ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (88%); APPROVALS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); DEBORAH SMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



503 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING;
N.Y.R.A. Feels Sting Of a Critical Audit

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO

 BODY:
The state's confrontation with the New York Racing Association escalated yesterday when the details of a state audit were made known that disallowed some expenditures by the association and questioned others at a time of dwindling profits.
The audit was prepared by Edward V. Regan, the state comptroller, who sharply reminded the management of N.Y.R.A. that the law "states that a nonprofit racing association shall operate in a sound economical, efficient and effective manner so as to produce a reasonable revenue for the support of government." Regan charged the N.Y.R.A. with "management judgments and accounting decisions that we assert are unreasonable, excessive and inconsistent" with state law. 
 The audit will be sent to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who has been challenging the association's role as the operator of the Aqueduct, Belmont Park and Saratoga race tracks. The Governor recently created a nine-member commission to overhaul racing in the state, especially by the time N.Y.R.A.'s franchise ends in the year 2000. Last Tuesday, he berated the association's executives for high salaries and bonuses, in particular the combined $261,000 paid in 1990 to the association's president, Gerard J. McKeon.
 
Profits Go Down
 The Regan audit, covering the years 1988 and 1989, says that N.Y.R.A. reported a net profit of $1.5 million for the state in 1988 and no profit in 1989. But it notes that $120,164 was spent by the N.Y.R.A. in those two years to buy or lease automobiles for executives, and that $320,100 was allotted for cash bonuses for seven executives.
The bonuses ranged from $4,600 in one case to $43,400 in another. The audit urged that they be disallowed by the state.
The report says that at the same time that bonuses were being handed out, income was dropping, "continuing a trend that began in the early 1970's with the advent of off-track betting." According to the audit, in a period extending from 1985 to 1989 attendance dropped 15.6 percent, from 4.6 million in 1985 to 3.9 million; betting dropped 8.8 percent, from $951 million to $867 million, and expenses increased 11 percent.
In a letter to Regan, McKeon defended the N.Y.R.A. expenditures as reasonable and said that the salary scale "fell at the lower end of range for the larger racing jurisdictions."
"N.Y.R.A. is a privately financed stock corporation, organized as a nonprofit racing association," McKeon wrote, "not a governmental agency or public authority."
"Your office," he said, "has chosen to ignore, perhaps because it has failed to understand the nature of N.Y.R.A.'s business, that its racing is the object of $2.5 billion of parimutuel wagering annually, approximately 25 percent of all such wagering on thoroughbreds in the United States."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSN NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RACING ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; FINANCES; THOROUGHBRED RACING AUDITS (90%); HORSES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); BONUS PAY (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TRENDS (75%); GAMING (73%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH EDWARD V REGAN (87%); GERARD J MCKEON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



504 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: From the Economic Doctors, Diagnoses and Some Cures

 BODY:

ALLEN SINAI
Chief economist, the Boston Company in Boston 
 There are several important statistics to watch, according to Mr. Sinai, and none of them give much comfort. Though the employment rolls are growing, they are increasing at only 30 percent to 40 percent of the average rate after a recession, with temporary workers accounting for most of the gains. "The economy is still underperforming," Mr. Sinai said. "Payrolls in particular are growing at an unsatisfactory rate." Though new business incorporations have increased since the depths of the recession, they are also doing so at about half the rate normal after a recession, Mr. Sinai said. As a precaution, the new administration should be ready to put off balancing the budget to concentrate on growth. To do that, first-year spending on the infrastructure should be increased to $50 billion "if the economy flattens out."

LAWRENCE CHIMERINE
 
Senior economic adviser, DRI/McGraw Hill in Philadelphia
President-elect Bill Clinton has a tough road ahead, said Lawrence Chimerine. To get the economy moving, Mr. Clinton's proposed $20 billion investment in the nation's infrastructure next year should be increased to about $50 billion. But Mr. Clinton is not the only one with a difficult future. Workers have been losing ground and will continue to do so. Real wages did not grow in the last two years and will fall further. That has hurt consumers, who, rather than spending, have been sitting tight.Without spending, the economy will remain sluggish. Though hiring is expected to creep up, layoffs haven't hit bottom yet. And there is likely to be further downward pressure on wages as military suppliers cut back. "Clinton's plan has to be a massive defense conversion plan."
 
MICKEY D. LEVY
 
Chief economist, CRT Government Securities in New York
For Mr. Levy, even without any new proposals from Washington, the trend is up on the job front, albeit modestly. The "numbers are clearly pointing to a turnaround, with most of the losses in employment behind us," he said. The wrenching restructuring undergone by corporate America since the recession began has resulted in big increases in productivity. That has boosted bottom lines with five quarters in a row of steadily increasing profits. Mr. Levy forecasts profits will continue to increase through the end of 1993. But while cost cutting has made businesses leaner and more competitive, painful memories of layoffs will serve to keep companies' optimism in check. "Companies will continue to keep a lid on expenses. I don't expect any hiring sprees."

GRAPHIC: Photos; Allen Sinai, Lawrence Chimerine, Mickey D. Levy.
 
Graphs shows new business incorporations, total non-farm payroll employment and total non-farm payroll employment, 1st qtr. 1991-4th qtr. 1993 (4th qtr. 1992-1993, forecasts) (Source: Allan Sinai, Boston Co)
 
Percent change in the annual rate of payroll employment, total manufacturing employment, and average hourly real wages, 1st qtr. 1991-4th qtr. 1993 (4th qtr. 1992-1993, forecasts) (Source: DRI/McGraw Hill)
 
Year-to-year percent change in corporate operating profits; initial unemployment claims, monthly averages; year-toyear percent change in productivity, 1st qtr. 1991-4th qtr. 1993 (4th qtr. 1992-1993, forecasts) (Source: CRT/Government Securities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (91%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%); 

PERSON: SINAI, ALLEN; CHIMERINE, LAWRENCE; LEVY, MICKEY D; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



505 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
When Index Funds Make Sense

SERIES: First of two articles on index funds./Next: which ones are best.

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
While some mutual fund investors try to squeeze out the last dollar of return, most are satisfied with building value over time. About the only way to do that is to invest in stocks, and the simplest way to go is to buy a fund that tracks an index like the Standard & Poor's 500.
A combination of simplicity and assured market returns has made winners of index funds lately. For the last decade, the average stock fund has underperformed the S.&P. 500, leading some experts to say indexing is the only way to go. 
 But others insist the 1980's were an aberration because the restructuring of S.&P. companies through corporate raids and leveraged buyouts caused big stocks to be priced higher than earnings warranted, and foreign buying focused on those stocks. And while it is true that fund managers have lagged behind the index almost every year since 1983, they beat the index the previous seven years.
In any case, index funds are proliferating, and this breeds confusion -- more than half of today's 40 index funds have not yet celebrated their third birthday. And even seemingly simple index investments must be assembled in ways that make sense.
Index funds own all the securities in a market index, or a representative sample, and thus have several edges over regular actively managed funds.
Since they use a buy-and-hold strategy -- buying and selling only to stay fully invested in the indexes -- the funds should have extremely low transaction costs. And a low turnover means fewer taxable distributions for people who invest outside 401(k) plans, Keoghs and other tax-deferred accounts.
Management fees should be low, too, because fund managers do not have to research investments or come up with an investment strategy, just buy and sell securities.
And, by design, index funds are fully diversified, not biased in favor of a particular market segment. While some funds can and do move into cash when the markets look dicey, index funds always stay fully invested.
Conventional wisdom today holds that indexing makes sense only in particular markets, and most experts say the case for indexing is most persuasive among large-capitalization stocks. Since many analysts follow the bigger stocks, it is difficult for an investor to unearth information not already reflected in the company's stock price.
Still, some analysts disagree. While the average large-capitalization fund is not likely to beat the S.&P. 500 because of expenses and trading costs, investors who analyze track records and research fund managers' strategies can find funds with better-than-average long-term performance, said Kenneth E. Gregory, editor of the L/G No-Load Fund Analyst, in San Francisco.
The case for indexing small stocks is much less clear. Because small stocks are followed by fewer analysts, "a good, active manager is likely to find inefficiencies among small-capitalization stocks, so you have a greater chance of exceeding an index," said Sheldon Jacobs, who edits the No-Load Fund Investor, in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
When it comes to overseas investing, many experts say indexing is a bad idea. Domestic funds have been successful because American markets are so efficient, but international markets largely are not, said Lori Lucas, an analyst with Morningstar Inc., mutual fund researchers in Chicago.
What is more, index funds in foreign markets are not diversified in the way American investors have come to expect.
For example, the Vanguard International Equity Index: Pacific Portfolio is really a Japan index fund, with 86 percent allocated there. The fund increased its already-large allocation to Japanese equities as the market there inflated, and took a harder spill when the Japanese market finally crashed.
The Vanguard European portfolio is only slightly more diversified. Two-thirds of its assets are invested in just three countries: 40 percent in Britain, 14 percent in Germany and 14 percent in France.
Probably the best approach for individual investors is to follow the core approach used by institutional investors, said Maria Crawford Scott, who edits the American Association of Individual Investors' Journal.
This approach divides a portfolio into two parts. The passively managed portion would be filled by index funds, letting you spend more time on the actively managed part.
One possibility is to buy funds that you think will perform strongly under current market conditions -- funds that focus on value investing, for example, tend to do well during economic recoveries. Using this method lets you "make small bets on the market's direction without making major changes in your overall portfolio," Ms. Scott said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Comparing Expenses," compares average expense ratios for various types of index funds. (Source: Morningstar Inc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: VANGUARD INTERNATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); INDEX FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INCOME TAX (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (69%); US KEOGH PLANS (69%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE MARIA CRAWFORD SCOTT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



506 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: The New White House Order

 BODY:
President-elect Clinton promises to focus like a laser beam on the economy. The effort is likely to begin with creation of a high-level adviser to head a new White House "economic security council." That's a powerful idea. In this new world order, after the cold war, economic problems loom at least as large as military threats. This new council could do for economic policy what the National Security Council does for diplomatic and military policy: bring coherent views to the President's attention, every morning.
But the proposed council also poses risks that are evident just by thinking for a minute about the name economic security council. The parallel with national security invites the belief that America is still at war, only this time over foreign investment and trade rather than missiles. That's not just misguided but dangerous, inviting a quick descent into the worst protectionism. 
 America's economic problems start at home: untrained and undereducated workers, slumping investment, sluggish productivity. By fastening on these real problems, the new council would do immense good. If it focuses instead on foreign "enemies," it will invite dangerous distraction.
The other day, the Commission on Government Renewal, a bipartisan study group of 30 senior officials from the last eight administrations, published a memorandum for the President-elect offering an admirable outline for Mr. Clinton's economic council. It proposed three equal White House councils to deal with national security, economic and domestic affairs.
No whiff of protectionism here. The emphasis is on coordination and access. Each council would consist of Cabinet officials and would be managed by an assistant to the President with a small professional staff. The three council heads would meet daily with the President, coordinating input from every corner of the Administration.
The daily briefing is key. Now, only the national security adviser gets automatic access. This proposal would put economics on an equal footing. That's important because issues increasingly cross traditional boundaries.
But while the commission's proposals on access and coordination are right on target, it made a disquieting proposal for refocusing Administration attention on the issue of "competitiveness." That's an unfortunate focus, especially if measured by the imbalance between exports and imports -- and if it invites bailouts for particular industries.
What's wrong with the American economy is a 20-year slowdown in the growth of living standards. But that's a reflection of slow productivity growth, not of some export-import imbalance. A trade deficit reflects nothing more than that Americans spend more than they produce, and therefore have to import the difference.
Economic growth reflects productivity. And productivity will follow from combining well-trained workers with state-of-the-art equipment. That means better educating the 50 percent of high school students who don't go to college; it also means consuming less, investing more.
Those will be difficult changes. Presidents Reagan and Bush wanted to leave them entirely to private decision. Mr. Clinton brings to Washington a promising confidence that the Federal Government also has a role to play.
Some people equate any such promise with the ugly specter of arrogant bureaucrats deciding which industries will grow, which will shrink. But what Mr. Clinton has actually proposed -- and what the proposed economic council could promote -- is putting Government behind entrepreneurs willing to risk their own fortunes.
If the new council, renamed, can keep its eye on productivity, not competitiveness, and on living standards and not producer bailouts, the new order in the White House can keep up with the new order in the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); BAILOUTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



507 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Putting America First

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
"By bringing to Washington a government determined to govern," Arthur Schlesinger Jr. wrote of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, "[he] unlocked new energies in a people who had lost faith, not just in government's ability to meet the economic crisis, but almost in the ability of anyone to do anything."
Voters wanted their faith renewed in 1992. So, many once again set aside their mounting cynicism about governmental activism and selected Bill Clinton. 
 They gave this young question mark of a Governor from a poor and unremarkable state a mandate to do "something," though nothing in particular, to fix the economy and provide broader health care coverage and better education.
But candidate Clinton neither sought nor received a mandate for national security policy. Therein lies the problem. Unaddressed, it could lead to creeping isolationism and, worse, backfire on his commitment to domestic priorities.
Mr. Clinton did speak his piece about foreign affairs. He presented himself, reassuringly, as an internationalist who would guard old and new U.S. interests.
But the Clinton thrust was decidedly and correctly inward. Politically, it had to be. With the cold war over, Americans chafed under the heavy burdens of world leadership. They felt that President Bush had paid too much attention to foreign problems. Mr. Clinton repeatedly picked at that sore. Ross Perot went much further, often sounding isolationist. Even Mr. Bush fell virtually mute on foreign policy for fear of reminding voters of his once proud strong suit.
Separately and collectively, the three candidates pledged to reverse cold war practice and focus on America.
This message was not only good politics, it pointed to sound priorities. Presidents have shortchanged domestic problems throughout the cold war. The country is falling apart. It cries out for Presidential energy and imagination and for a larger share of the Federal pie.
Even foreign leaders have come to empathize with those needs. They have started fretting about Mr. Bush's apparent indifference to stimulating the U.S. economy. They have begun to admire Mr. Clinton's domestic activism. It could help regenerate America and pump up the market for their exports.
At the same time, they wonder and worry what America's new priorities will mean for U.S. presence and leadership abroad. And not without reason.
Putting America first makes sense -- up to a point. Beyond that point, Mr. Clinton could fall into the traps of unintended isolationism and policy passivity.
First, his preoccupation with the U.S. could go too far and take on its own wind in American politics. The U.S. could float much further inward than intended. But those around Mr. Clinton say that he is alert to this danger and will undertake the political combat necessary to keep the U.S. involved abroad. Foreign leaders will see this soon and calm down.
Mr. Clinton is more likely to fall prey to the second and far more insidious trap of passivity. World crises will occur no matter what he does, but his chances of containing them will improve if he is constantly trying to head them off. It is not enough for the U.S. simply to be engaged overseas; it must be engaged actively and imaginatively, and with dollars. Otherwise, crises will explode and devour Mr. Clinton's time and political capital.
Without active American leadership, the Bosnian nightmare could escalate into a Balkan war. Iran and others will surely acquire nuclear arms unless the U.S. mounts active opposition. Arabs and Israelis will inevitably drift back toward war without constant American mediation. China and Japan could start down the road to confrontation without a major U.S. presence in Asia. The ex-Soviet Union will have no chance to escape new dictatorship and militarism unless Washington actively reassures reformers and organizes world assistance. Any of the above could become a domestic political bombshell.
Often during the campaign, Mr. Clinton wisely argued that domestic policy is foreign policy is domestic policy. In a few short weeks he must come to terms with the paradox of his own wisdom: If he wants to devote the maximum time and resources to his domestic agenda -- as he should -- he will have to engage in active and creative diplomacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ATAXZ (NASDAQ) (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA FIRST PROPERTIES MANAGEMENT LLC (85%); AMERICA FIRST EUREKA HOLDINGS INC (85%); AMERICA FIRST REIT ADVISORY CO (85%); AMERICA FIRST TAX EXEMPT INVESTORS LP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ISOLATIONISM (US); ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); COLD WAR (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



508 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: More U.S. Support for Russia

BYLINE: By Robert S. Strauss; Robert S. Strauss, who has resigned as Ambassador to Russia, plans to rejoin his Texas-based law firm.

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
Returning from 16 months as Ambassador in Moscow, first to the Soviet Union and then to Russia, reminds me again that people change their minds. This is true in the United States and in Russia.
In my lifetime, Americans have changed their minds about Prohibition, isolationism and racial and sexual equality. They have changed their minds several times about the role of government in the economy and society. The ebb and flow of changing minds is what politics and government are all about. 
 Agendas are being reordered in Moscow and in Washington. Change is the basis of a historic opportunity between us and the Russians. But to exploit it, we will need more change in our thinking about ourselves, the Russians and the world.
During my time as ambassador, the Russians have transformed their thinking about themselves, the West, their former ideology, the erosion of centralized state power, the free market and their relations with former Soviet republics.
The character of future Russian government and democracy is an open question. Will they be authoritarian and limited? Broad and open? Presidential or European parliamentary? Centralized or fragmented? Stable or unstable?
Russia's instability holds our attention. The country is important for us as an engine of our own economic transformation, and it can assist the West in dealing with all of the "isms" in this volatile, dangerous part of the world.
Russia is weak, impoverished and unsettled, but we should have no illusions that it will or should remain weak or that a weak Russia somehow serves our interests.
We have an opportunity to make an important contribution to securing democracy and market reforms in Russia and assist as it rebuilds its society. Our selfish interests demand we grasp it firmly.
Over the past year, we have laid a foundation for a new relationship with Russia. I have come to appreciate the depth of President Boris Yeltsin's commitment to democracy and his role as a product of the old system and yet on the cutting edge as a visionary for the new. He told Congress on June 17, "The Russian people have made their choice in favor of liberty and democracy." The majority certainly have but many remain undecided. We must reinforce that majority and help encourage the undecided.
The choice is not between a strong or weak Russia but between a strong, inward-looking authoritarian state or a strong democratic state that participates in the world community.
While our help cannot preordain Russia's success or failure, it can help shape the character of the outcome. This is partly because we matter to the Russians as the prosperous democratic society Boris Yeltsin and the vast majority of Russians would like to more closely resemble.
We need to understand what we are all about in Russia as well as what they are all about -- that we will always have our differences, that it is the Russians who must rebuild the new Russia, not us, and that we and they have a long way to go but both have also come a long way.
In setting our priorities for attention -- not necessarily money -- support to deepen the roots of democracy must be raised to a far higher level than it has been so far on the national agenda.
The Congress, executive branch and the American people must come to grips with the fact that our effort must not lapse with the modest first steps we have taken.
Given the global economic problems, the justification for this modest response is certainly understandable, but it's misguided and certainly not in our own self-interest.
If the agenda and commitments required in coming years are substantial, so are the U.S. interests and values that are at stake. Let's not lose this historic opportunity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); POLITICS (71%); GENDER EQUALITY (57%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT S

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



509 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Believe It, Women Elected This President

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The women in this country played a major role in the Clinton election victory. According to your Nov. 5 analysis of the demographics, 46 percent versus 37 percent of women preferred the Clinton-Gore ticket, yet you say that the abortion issue was a factor for only one out of eight voters. 
 Perhaps by the time women got to the polling place, this major issue was overshadowed by all the other pertinent reasons for rejecting the Republican candidate, but the overwhelming majority of the female electorate was unwilling even to consider a candidate with a strong antichoice position.
Women are by nature pragmatists. It has always been their role to keep the home fires burning and the children fed. Some of us have chosen additional roles; many more have had additional roles thrust upon them. Their resolve to vote for the pro-choice Clinton ticket was fortified by their determination not to have the largely white male middle-class Republican Party explain "family values" to them, not to have the fanatical religious right determine the reading material permitted in their children's schools, not to have mandatory school prayer. Women voted for the candidate with the articulated economic plan, the vision for health and education reform, the resolve for a better future for their children.
As for the character issue, politicians should be reminded that women have a built-in falsehood detector. The Republican character assassination of the Democratic candidates fell on deaf female ears. They made a determination of character a year before, when President Bush looked into the television camera and proclaimed that Clarence Thomas was "the most suited person in America" for the job of Supreme Court Justice and when this most suited person proclaimed he had never discussed Roe v. Wade with anyone.
More than ever before, women made their importance in the electorate felt this year. We are not a minority; we are the majority in this country, making up slightly more than 51 percent of the electorate and controlling more than 50 percent of the wealth of the country. We are a force to be dealt with, as a group that votes its conscience first. We are strongly pro-choice, pro-child, pro-social tolerance, pro-education, pro-health care. If the Republicans keep avoiding these issues, we are going to keep the Democrats in the White House a long time.
 
PATRICIA WARBURG CLIFF
New York, Nov. 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; WOMEN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WOMEN (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ABORTION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (67%); CHURCH & STATE (67%); RELIGION (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); EDUCATION REFORM (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CLIFF, PATRICIA WARBURG BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



510 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Believe It, Women Elected This President;
Making Taxes Fairer

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Experts are flocking to Little Rock, Ark., and Washington to urge Bill Clinton to tone down any suggestions of social reform in the program he will present to Congress and the nation. Political pundits urge the middle and working classes not to hope for improvements, but to prepare for more sacrifices. 
 The most concrete Clinton proposal of change from the Reagan-Bush policies is to increase taxes on the very rich. The top rate for those with incomes over $200,000 would go up from 31 percent to 36 percent, and there would be a 10 percent surcharge on those with incomes over $1 million.
Based on 1990 figures, the latest available, this would affect 835,000 taxpayers, .7 percent of all taxpayers, and would raise their total tax bill by $16.1 billion, or 16 percent. Most of the increase, $11.8 billion, would be paid by the 61,000 taxpayers with incomes above $1 million. This would be a minimal reform, a beginning, but would leave little for middle- and lower-income tax relief, not even considering the financing of infrastructure, advanced research and development and deficit reduction.
Real tax reform should return at least to the pre-Reagan tax structure of 1979, which would yield an increase five times greater, or $82 billion, from those with adjusted gross incomes of more than $200,000.
While still less than a really radical "tax the rich" program, this is a necessary primary financial step to keep the President-elect's promise of change, if that is to be benefical to most Americans.
 
VICTOR PERLO
Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Nov. 9, 1992
 
The writer is an economic consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FEDERAL TAXES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX REFORM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: PERLO, VICTOR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



511 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Believe It, Women Elected This President;
Why Bush Failed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Peggy Noonan's "Why Bush Failed" (Op-Ed, Nov. 5) fails to grasp both why and, to some degree, how President Bush lost. 
 The Reagan-Bush economy was never worse than today's because, along with unemployment, has come the stunning news for hundreds of thousands of able, motivated former workers that their last employers will never rehire them or anyone else in their place. Bill Clinton and Al Gore perceived the urgency of hope as more than campaign rhetoric and spoke to unemployed and uncertainly employed America in a time when the word "unemployed" took on an ominous meaning unknown since the 1930's. If Mr. Bush's speechwriters never saw this, they may be a reason why Bush failed.
He also failed because the President's advisers and at least one speechwriter believe the war against Iraq was "masterly diplomacy." On Nov. 3, Saddam Hussein, the cause of that "war," was still there, perhaps stronger than ever and certainly a larger thorn in our side.
As volunteer co-director of a private homeless shelter, I further refute claims that 1982 was worse than today because 1982 saw but the beginning of homeless America. New York City churches and synagogues were assured in 1982 that food and beds for the homeless would be necessary for just six months. By Nov. 3, 1992, this city's homeless population topped 150,000 and was increasing, as is the case in most United States cities.
Citizens watching milk or gas prices, uneasy about Saddam Hussein, passing the begging homeless daily, know better than White House aides or speechwriters why George Bush failed, and they spoke keenly on Election Day.
 
BRYANT HAYES
New York, Nov. 5, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (71%); IRAQ WAR (68%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (66%); RELIGION (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HAYES, BRYANT RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



512 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Criminal Charges Make Outlook Grim for Collor

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 14

 BODY:
President Fernando Collor de Mello's political prospects grew bleaker this week as Brazil's Attorney General formally charged him with corruption for a criminal trial and the Senate promised a verdict by Christmas in a parallel impeachment trial.
A conviction in either trial would cause Mr. Collor to be permanently removed from office. On Sept. 29, a congressional vote forced him to surrender his powers to Vice President Itamar Franco for six months to allow the first impeachment trial in Brazil's history. 
 "The only person in Brasilia who thinks that Collor will get off is Collor," said a Brazilian newspaper editor who recently visited the President at his lakefront estate in Brasilia where he lives in reclusion.
Within a month, the Chamber of Deputies is expected to vote to authorize the Supreme Court to try Mr. Collor on the criminal charges.
 
'Passive Corruption' Charged
 Trying to stave off a criminal indictment, Mr. Collor wrote to the Attorney General late last month to say he had not benefited from "one little penny snatched from the public treasury."
But on Thursday, Aristides Junqueira, the Attorney General, formally charged the President with "passive corruption" and "criminal association." The 55-page indictment charges that Mr. Collor and his relatives accepted $8 million from an influence-trafficking ring that netted $55.3 million.
"According to the verified facts, it seems to me that the big boss was the President," Mr. Junqueira said at a news conference on Friday.
Eight others accused of being members of the ring were indicted, including Paulo Cesar Farias, Mr. Collor's former campaign treasurer. The Attorney General charged that Mr. Farias, the ring's reported mastermind, pocketed $21.5 million of the proceeds.
In his letter to the Attorney General, Mr. Collor asserted that the last time he communicated with Mr. Farias was around June 1990. But a check of telephone bills discovered that, since Mr. Collor's inauguration in March 1990, 479 calls were made from the President's residence or offices to Mr. Farias's residence or offices and 137 calls were made the other way round.
 
'Like a Concubine'
 In a parallel trial, Brazil's Senate plans to vote on Dec. 22 on whether to convict Mr. Collor on corruption charges stemming from the same scandal.
In a summation, prosecution lawyers charged on Tuesday that the President had committed 20 corruption-related crimes and had lived "like a concubine kept and maintained by a private patron."
In another setback for the presidential family, a prosecutor in Mr. Collor's home state, Alagoas, has formally accused Rosane Malta Collor, Brazil's First Lady, with embezzlement and with "heading a criminal gang." Citing the misappropriation of assets from a federal charity run by Mrs. Collor, the prosecutor also asked a judge to freeze her assets.
Police investigators, who devoted the summer to tracing the destinations of Mr. Farias's millions, recently turned to studying the sources.
Studying a computer seized last June from Mr. Farias's Sao Paulo office, the police reportedly discovered that the password to an electronic spreadsheet was "Collor." The program listed 128 federal projects and commission percentages ranging from 3 to 15 percent.
 
Immunity Is Offered
 Prosecutors are now offering immunity from prosecution to representatives of 25 businesses that supposedly made payments to the ring. On Thursday, a lawyer for Mercedes Benz do Brasil told the police that his company paid $1.1 million to the ring over the last two years because Mr. Farias threatened "to shut the company down."
The president of a trade association for Brazil's interstate bus companies said he paid $225,000 to a company controlled by Mr. Farias because he threatened to freeze bus fares -- financial death in an economy with 25 percent monthly inflation.
Cement companies reportedly contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars after Mr. Collor made a tough speech in May 1990 threatening to open the sector to competition from imports.
"Collor used his power to create problems, and P.C. Farias sold the solutions," Jornal do Brasil, a Rio newspaper, wrote last week.
Pressed by the mounting revelations, Mr. Collor's tightknit group is disintegrating into a festival of finger pointing.
"If everything they say about P.C. is proven, I will have the most complete repugnance for him," Mr. Collor told one Sao Paulo newspaper.
In return, Mr. Farias's lawyers vowed not to let their client be "a punching bag."
Taking another tack, Brazil's besieged President attributed the unaccounted millions passing through accounts controlled by him to "leftover campaign money."
 
'No Way to Explain It'
 But the man legally responsible for the President's 1989 campaign finances retorted, "There never was any money left over the from the campaign."
"He has no way to explain it, and it would have been better if he had resigned," Daniel Tourinho, the president of Mr. Collor's political party, continued in an interview with Veja.
When the time came for members of Mr. Collor's Government to testify in his defense before the Senate, several vanished. Marcilio Marques Moreira, the former Economy Minister, flew to Europe without leaving a forwarding address.
In a final defection, a member of the Mr. Collor's campaign team gave Brazil's scandal the Watergate touch that it has lacked since it first erupted in May. The disillusioned insider, Octavio Ramos, told the press that electrical specialists working for the Collor campaign wiretapped telephones at the headquarters of the President's opponent, Luis Inacio da Silva.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fernando Collor de Mello of Brazil (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL BRAZIL (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); VERDICTS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); ETHICS (73%); JUDGES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); MISAPPROPRIATION (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO (PRES); FRANCO, ITAMAR (VICE
PRES) FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO (97%); PAULO CESAR FARIAS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



513 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Speaking the Language of Business on Behalf of the Mayor

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

 BODY:
After nearly two years of negotiations, the Dinkins administration had by last spring offered the Morgan Stanley Group what even the investment bank called very attractive incentives to keep it from moving its headquarters to Stamford, Conn.
But to the frustration of city officials, Morgan Stanley held out throughout the summer. Staying might be too big a gamble, given New York's long history of raising business taxes, its leaders said. 
 Then along came Barry F. Sullivan, the new Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development. He persuaded Mayor David N. Dinkins to commit himself to a four-year freeze of the general corporate tax rate. That did it: Morgan Stanley decided last month it would keep its headquarters, and 4,100 jobs, in New York.
"Barry was critical in getting the last pieces of our arrangement in place," said James M. Allwin, a managing director who headed Morgan Stanley's negotiating team. "He thinks like a businessman. We speak the same language."
 
Business More Optimistic
 After 34 years as a banker, including 11 as chairman of the First Chicago Corporation, he should. Mr. Sullivan, who is 61 years old, knows how crucial stable government policies are for companies trying to carry out long-term plans.
In his six months at City Hall, Mr. Sullivan has helped to rekindle optimism in the city's business community, an especially remarkable feat considering that New York remains mired in a severe recession.
Besides the Morgan Stanley agreement, he was instrumental in persuading Prudential Securities Inc. to keep its headquarters, and 5,000 jobs, in New York and in clinching deals that kept the city's five commodity exchanges and their 11,700 jobs.
Mr. Sullivan's team also used path-breaking incentives to persuade Bradlees Inc., a discount retailer, to offer to buy six stores closed by the bankrupt Alexander's Department Stores. The Caldor Corporation has since outbid Bradlees and has not asked for city incentives.
And this month the city and state prevailed over New Jersey when The New York Times decided to build a printing and distribution plant in College Point, Queens, to replace its midtown Manhattan press operations.
Mr. Sullivan also helped devise the tactics that nabbed the 1998 Goodwill games for the metropolitan area. And he has begun programs to help smaller businesses.
 
Ending Another Cold War
 Undoubtedly one reason Mr. Sullivan has been so successful is that he ended the cold war that had been raging between Mayor Dinkins and big business. The thaw began when he got the Mayor to make a spring trip to Europe with corporate executives to promote the city.
Now the Mayor can sit through breakfasts with executives -- as he did one recent morning -- without gripping his chair as they speak their minds. While the Mayor and corporate leaders may not yet be bosom buddies, now there seems at least a cordial, constructive relationship.
"To the extent that there was any gap -- and there was for some people -- it has been closed," said John F. McGillicuddy, chairman of the Chemical Banking Corporation.
So far, the only big defeat on Mr. Sullivan's watch involved First Chicago, his former employer. This fall, it decided it would move most of a shareholder-service subsidiary, and 1,000 jobs, to Jersey City from Manhattan.
But when the loss is mentioned, business and political leaders not only defend Mr. Sullivan -- who kept out of the talks because of his $780,000-a-year consulting contract with First Chicago -- they praise him. The city and state, they say, would have had to pay too much in incentives -- more than $50,000 a job. The First Chicago and Morgan Stanley cases show the city is more disciplined than before in its approach to retaining companies, they add.
 
Interest in Theology
 Mr. Sullivan, who spent 23 years at the Chase Manhattan Corporation before going to First Chicago, took early retirement from the latter in December. His tenure got mixed reviews: once a formidable money-center bank, First Chicago is now more of a regional bank.
Insisting he was not pushed out, Mr. Sullivan said the bank, unlike others, not only survived but "is really in good shape." He said he just wanted to devote more time to community service and to his family -- his wife Audrey, five children and four grandchildren.
It hasn't exactly worked out that way.
He light-heartedly complained that because of the new job, he is only halfway through the second volume of Jaroslav Pelikan's five-volume history of Christian theology, a going-away present from the University of Chicago, where he had served as chairman of the board of trustees. He also took a course this year on Christian theology until Thomas Aquinas.
Mr. Sullivan says he plans to give his $112,000 salary to worthy causes.
Mr. Sullivan insists that a government should be obsessed with listening to and serving its "customers" -- whether they be businesses, residents, commuters or tourists -- just like a successful company does. He also has been trying to get the city government to act like a business by setting goals, assigning responsibility and holding people accountable.
 
An Understanding of Business
 Howard A. Knight, a senior executive vice president at Prudential, said that the city might have lost his company had it not been for that attitude. Once Mr. Sullivan got involved, he said, "All of a sudden things moved on a very definite time line with certain milestones." The 20-year deal was signed in August.
Mr. Sullivan also understood Prudential's desire to respond to market forces. While the city had been insisting that Prudential would lose municipal benefits if Prudential jobs fell below a threshold, Mr. Sullivan agreed to make the job level an average over two or three years. "He didn't cause the city to get a materially smaller commitment in terms of jobs, but he gave us flexibility to run our business," Mr. Knight said.
As part of his customer focus, Mr. Sullivan has called on some 160 of the largest employers in the city, and he frequently walks through neighborhoods to visit smaller businesses.
Recently, he was in the Broadway area of Bushwick. Fifteen businessmen and community leaders told him about their struggle to revive the poor area. He listened sympathetically to their laments -- things he has heard all too often before.
Maybe he could get some empty city-owned land for a parking lot, he said. He talked about an insurance fund the city was creating to encourage banks to loan to small businesses. But he yet again delivered the bad message about tax relief. "If you're saying a general tax reduction, it ain't gonna happen," he said with a Bronx accent that survived years in Washington, London and Chicago.
 
New Incentives for Retail
 How did he go over? "It's nice to have the visit, but he's doing it on behalf of a mayor who's trying to regain lost ground politically," said Gary Schneiderman, a supermarket owner.
Most, though, seemed encouraged. "I think something will be done," said Stanley Henry, owner of a hardware store, adding "we've got the Mayor's attention."
These kind of visits led to the offer of incentives to Bradlees. Mr. Sullivan and some staffers toured Washington Heights the day after last summer's disturbance to see how badly shops had been damaged, and he was, he said, struck by the role small shops play in creating a vital neighborhood.
Then he learned how on Fordham Road in the Bronx, the closure of Alexander's original department store -- where his mother had taken him shopping as a boy -- had reduced the flow of shoppers, causing the sales of small shops to plunge.
"We had never, as I understand it, as a city done incentives for retail," he recalled. After learning that Kmart planned to open its first store in the city -- in Fresh Meadows, Queens -- he also phoned the chain's chief to say the city might offer incentives if Kmart opened more.
 
Search for a Vision
 He has also embarked upon other initiatives for smaller businesses -- like the loan-insurance fund and streamlining the process for granting city loans. He is exploring the idea of a city venture-capital fund to provide small businesses with equity capital.
Mr. Sullivan strongly believes that the city needs a long-range "economic vision" aimed at improving conditions for industries deemed vital to the city. Ultimately that could mean having to cut fewer special deals to keep or attract jobs.
Starting with a draft written in June on a plane ride back from a meeting of the University of Chicago's board of trustees, he has honed a two-page plan that reflects a range of views solicited from inside and outside City Hall. The first page is the vision. The second is the policies for realizing it.
In its current form, the strategy sees New York as a global corporate headquarters city, the world's leading cultural center, a vibrant place for small and growing businesses, the center of the regional economy and a global city of opportunity.
In that context, the draft says, New York must strive to strengthen its position as an international center for financial and business services, communications industries, design industries like fashion and jewelry, tourism, biomedical science, and manufacturers serving the local economy.
Looking to small business to be the engine of job creation, the strategy calls for much more emphasis on helping people to begin and expand them.
Mr. Sullivan hopes is now working with Mr. Dinkins on the final shaping of the vision. "I don't believe we ought to have a Barry Sullivan economic vision of New York City. I believe we ought to have a Mayor Dinkins vision," he said. .
Norman Steisel, the First Deputy Mayor, says of Mr. Sullivan, "He clearly is a team player."
 
 
 
PROFILE
Barry Francis Sullivan
Born: Dec. 21, 1930, the Bronx.
Education: Regis High School in Manhattan; attended Georgetown University 1949-52; bachelor's degree from Columbia University, 1955; master's in business administration from University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, 1957.
Career: Chase Manhattan Bank, a series of executive position, 1957-1980; chairman and chief executive of First Chicago Corporation, 1980-91; New York Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, May 1992-present.
Family: Married for 36 years to the former Audrey M. Villeneuve; four sons and one daughter; four grandchildren.
Interests: Theology; reading; sports, especially basketball.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry F. Sullivan, the new Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, is credited with helping to keep the headquarters of Morgan Stanley -- and 4,100 jobs -- in New York. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (66%); BRADLEES INC (65%); CALDOR CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RETAILERS (67%); RECESSION (64%); TRENDS (60%); COMMODITIES TRADING (50%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; SULLIVAN, BARRY F (DEPUTY MAYOR); SULLIVAN, BARRY F BARRY F SULLIVAN (95%); DAVID N DINKINS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



514 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1949 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Malcolm X: The Facts, the Fictions, the Film

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE

 BODY:
He was Malcolm Little when he was born on May 19, 1925, in Omaha, and El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz when he fell in a fusillade of bullets on Feb. 21, 1965, in New York City. In the relatively few years in between, he was Detroit Red, Satan and Malcolm X. Now, 27 years after his assassination, his complicated life has been refracted through the prisms of history and myth, confirming him as a compelling political presence but leaving conflicting interpretations of his legacy.
In his new film "Malcolm X," which opens on Wednesday, the director Spike Lee traces the black leader's dramatic evolution, from impoverished child, hustler and thief to convict to angry spokesman of the Nation of Islam contemptuous of "blue-eyed white devils" and, finally, after a pilgrimage to Mecca, to the powerful humanist who used his rhetorical gift to repudiate racial exclusivity before being gunned down at the age of 39. The film stars Denzel Washington as Malcolm X, Angela Bassett as his wife, Betty Shabazz, and Al Freeman Jr. as Elijah Muhammad, leader of the Nation of Islam. 
 "Malcolm X," 3 hours and 21 minutes in length, takes its audiences from the rural poverty of 1920's Nebraska to the tough streets of Roxbury in Boston and Harlem in New York, inside the strict world of the Black Muslims and to the holy land of the Middle East. The screenplay, which embodies Mr. Lee's vision of Malcolm X, is based on an adaptation of "The Autobiography of Malcolm X," written with Alex Haley and published in 1965.
Because Malcolm X had so many facets and stoked the passions of so many people, portraying his legacy would present a challenge to any film maker. Apprehensions about Mr. Lee's portrayal set a brushfire of controversy even before filming started last year. The poet Amiri Baraka, who criticized the project before he had seen the script, said it would be a distortion of Malcolm X's life "to make middle-class Negroes sleep easier." Some critics voiced concern that Mr. Lee would focus too much on the black leader's days as a hustler or, worse, make him seem in the end like the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Others suggest that subsequent writings have revealed important inaccuracies in the autobiography and that a script that follows the book would leave audiences with an erroneous portrait.
But the trials of presenting Malcolm X on film did not begin with Mr. Lee but in 1968, when a screenplay by James Baldwin and Arnold Perl was commissioned by Marvin Worth, a producer who had acquired rights to the autobiography. Since then, the project has been beset by battles over such issues as Hollywood's readiness to deal with so controversial a leader, which phase of his ideological development to highlight and whether a white director -- Norman Jewison, in this case -- could do justice to the subject.
Mr. Lee says that his film does not glorify any one phase of the black leader's development but rather looks at "all the different Malcolms as making up one Malcolm."
"I know he was constantly evolving; I like the total evolution, the many transformations he made, because all of those together made Malcolm," he said recently at a midtown Manhattan hotel, adding that he realized that "there is a specific Malcolm some hold dear more than the other parts of Malcolm. Baraka and nationalists want their own Malcolm; the Nation of Islam definitely don't want you to push the Malcolm after he left the Nation of Islam. People just pick and choose what Malcolm fits their own personal agenda or own political beliefs."
"Malcolm X" comes in the wake of such historical epics as Richard Attenborough's "Gandhi" (1982), Alan Parker's "Mississippi Burning" (1988), Roland Joffe's "Fat Man and Little Boy" (1989) and Oliver Stone's "J.F.K.," which appeared last year. Increasingly, and most notably with "J.F.K.," the mixing of fact and fiction, especially in the service of explaining seminal events of our times, has raised serious questions about film makers' responsibility to the historic record.
Like those directors, Mr. Lee used the material of history selectively in an effort to tell a compelling tale. He shunned certain accounts of events that were at odds with Malcolm X's own account, specifically those set out by Bruce Perry in his 1991 book, "Malcolm: The Life of a Man Who Changed Black America."
In one of several places in which Mr. Perry's and Malcolm X's versions of events differ, the autobiography tells how Malcolm's mother, pregnant with him, confronted Ku Klux Klansmen when they surrounded the family's house in Omaha, looking for Malcolm's father, Earl Little. But according to an interview Malcolm's mother gave Mr. Perry, the incident never happened. While both the autobiography and Mr. Lee portray Mr. Little as a political militant who was martyred by white racists, Mr. Perry depicts him as a violent man who beat his wife and children and died when he was run over by a moving streetcar as he tried to board.
Mr. Perry also suggests that a fire at Malcolm X's home in Queens one morning in 1965, as his wife and four young daughters lay asleep, may have been set by the black leader himself and not, as he publicly insisted, by the Black Muslims.
"I don't believe it," Mr. Lee said of Mr. Perry's book. The film maker said his own historical interpretation was formed not only by the autobiography but by independent research, including interviews he conducted with Malcolm X's relatives and Black Muslims who were close to him. He also used information provided by Paul Lee, who Mr. Lee described as an astute scholar of Malcolm X who served as a technical consultant on the film. "Malcolm loved his family," said Mr. Lee. "Why jeopardize the lives of your wife and children by setting your own house on fire while the children are sleeping?"
Perhaps even more important than the biographical details is the legend of a man who, even in death, exerts extraordinary influence over generations who honor his memory. Clearly, Malcolm X has gained wider approval than he had during his lifetime, but sharp debate continues over what his legacy is -- or should be -- with people of competing ideologies claiming to be the rightful heir to his political philosophy.
Betty Shabazz, his widow, considers him a "person for all seasons," one whose message was sometimes misunderstood. Dr. Shabazz, who is director of communications and public relations at Medgar Evers College of the City University of New York, served as a consultant on Mr. Lee's film.
"He said freedom by whatever means necessary to bring about a situation where members of the African diaspora were respected and treated as human beings wherever they reside," she said recently. "A lot of people didn't like that and said 'freedom by whatever means necessary' is violence.
"No, it's not violence. It's a comprehensive statement that says use more than one option. It could be political, social, educational, or it could be self-defense." It is those who refuse to include blacks in the "human family," she said, who are violent and who "attempt to superimpose their perverted thinking, their negative thinking, their violent thinking, their unrighteous thinking on my husband."
For the writer and historian Paula Giddings, the enduring legend of Malcolm X is embodied by the man who had a "tremendous capacity to change" his views to encompass "a much more sophisticated vision about race in the global context and a much more sophisticated vision about gender, to a much more emancipatory view of women." It is this Malcolm X who broke with Elijah Muhammad and, in a pilgrimage to Mecca in 1964, learned that Islam could embrace people of all races. On his return, he renounced racism and took the Islamic name El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz.
Yet many young African-Americans champion a different Malcolm X, the one who was a fiery Black Muslim minister. And they view Louis Farrakhan, head of the Nation of Islam, as the ideological heir to the ideals of black moral superiority and economic self-reliance espoused by Malcolm and Elijah Muhammad. Radical rap artists, prophets of rage who echo the teachings of the Nation of Islam, have revived the ideas and, through sampling, sometimes the recorded voice of this Malcolm, putting the questions of cultural nationalism and violence-versus-nonviolence to a new generation of militants.
"He made history while he was Minister Malcolm, following the leadership of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad," said Kam, a 23-year-old Los Angeles rapper whose first album, "Never Again," will be released by East-West/Atlantic early next year.
"That's the only Malcolm I can say I personally respect, not the man who left the Nation of Islam," said Kam, who typifies many rappers with their serious ideas and combative attitudes. "The same thing that attracts me to Malcolm attracts me today to Minister Farrakhan: the truth, uncut and raw, the discipline, the sacrifice, the uncompromising stand and the love for black people.
"Malcolm was an eloquent speaker, and he stirred up the country. He was speaking about action, but people in his time weren't with that. Today we ain't with nothing else; we ain't with no talking, we want action. We were born for action."
But there is another school of thought. Swayzack, a rapper with the Goats, a Philadelphia group that records for Ruffhouse Records, said that he believes all of Malcolm's phases of development were "valuable" in making him the man he ultimately became. Young people attracted solely to "Minister Malcolm" are ignorant of his political evolution, he said.
"Kids running around with X hats and everything, they don't know the half of it," said Swayzack. "They look to Malcolm X as a hero but stifle themselves by not knowing the truth of the man. They wear Malcolm X hats but carry 9-millimeters and shoot other brothers."
To James H. Cone, a theologian and author of "Martin and Malcolm and America: A Dream or a Nightmare," Malcolm X's racial pride and strength of character defined the consciousness of many African-Americans.
"Malcolm's legacy is on the inside," said Dr. Cone, whose 1991 book shows how the visions of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X were converging in their final years. "It is blacks renaming themselves from Negro to black to African-American. He was a cultural revolutionary who transformed the way in which black people thought about themselves. He revolutionized the black mind by reorienting them into a deep appreciation of the African cultural heritage, showing black people that you cannot hate Africa and not end up hating yourself."
With so many faces of Malcolm to be taken into account, how can a film maker hope to do justice to his legacy? Mr. Lee also refers to Malcolm X in his previous works, such as at the end of his third film, "Do the Right Thing," in which he juxtaposes quotes by Malcolm X and King. He said it was his intent in the new movie to leave audiences with "the Malcolm that is alive today," adding, "All of them are alive."
Thus, while the film depicts the assassination of Malcolm X, the final images are of schoolchildren and the South African black nationalist Nelson Mandela in present-day Soweto, the black township that symbolizes the political conflicts in apartheid. One by one, the children stand and say proudly, "I am Malcolm."
"We make the connection between Soweto and Harlem, Nelson and Malcolm, and what Malcolm talked about -- pan-Africanism, trying to build these bridges between people of color," Mr. Lee said. "He is alive in children in classrooms in Harlem, in classrooms in Soweto."
To some heirs of the Malcolm X legacy, this is the most enduring inheritance of all.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MALCOLM X (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATION OF ISLAM (83%); NATION OF ISLAM (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (83%); NATION OF ISLAM (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BLACKS (IN US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); FILM (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (86%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); HAJJ (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); MOVIE FILMING (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); SHOOTINGS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); WRITERS (69%); CHILD POVERTY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA; MALCOLM X (1925-65) MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



515 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Profile/Marvin Runyon;
730,000 Employees and a Challenge

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The JOB has been called Mission Impossible, and the list of particulars is daunting. The work force is bigger than the American payrolls of G.M. and I.B.M. combined. The unions are powerful. The pay is modest. Costs are rising. Service is patchy. The customers are grumbling. Rivals are nibbling away more of the business. Meddling politicians are an ever-present threat. No wonder the previous occupant of the office said the job was like being a "public whipping boy."
The job title that comes with this litany of headaches? Postmaster General of the United States. 
 Marvin Runyon, the 68-year-old former auto executive who took over in July, says that next to being President the position of Postmaster General is "the most challenging management job in the country." No one doubts the challenge. Nor is there any dispute that since he arrived Mr. Runyon has made the most sweeping changes since the Postal Service became a quasi-independent agency in 1971.
With early-retirement incentives and plenty of Runyonite prodding, 30,000 supervisory jobs are being eliminated. The biggest slice, proportionately, is being taken from the top. Senior management positions are being chopped nearly in half to 24. The goal, of course, is to fashion a more efficient postal system, one that will behave like a business catering to customers instead of like a government monopoly.
"The Postal Service really hasn't faced the fact that we need satisfied customers to succeed," Mr. Runyon said recently in his spacious 10th-floor office at L'Enfant Plaza.
Mr. Runyon has been a roving evangelist for the New Postal Service. And he could pass for a television evangelist, this lean, sharp-featured Texan with a well-tended white mane and a steely manner. In recent weeks, his crowded itinerary has included stops in St. Louis, Dallas, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Miami, New York, Chicago and Nashville. He has met with postal workers, union officials, business mailers and ordinary citizens. The theme of his standard stump speech is that the changes he has initiated will "bring accountability, credibility and competitiveness to the U.S. Postal Service." His talks are filled with such terms as empowerment, participative management and customer-focused.
If the look and sound of what Mr. Runyon is doing is familiar, that's because the Postal Service has embarked on what amounts to the 90's makeover for corporate America -- cut layers of management, eliminate bureaucracy and make decisions more quickly. Mr. Runyon is trying to put his bloated organization through the regimen being tried at General Motors, I.B.M., Sears and many other companies.
Mr. Runyon is the chief executive of what is probably the largest service enterprise in America -- 730,000 workers at 40,000 post offices, handling 165 billion pieces of mail a year, and generating revenues of $43 billion a year. His annual salary of $144,900 is a fraction of one that the chief executive of a major corporation would command.
Still, Mr. Runyon believes that the lessons learned in business can be applied to the public sector, and that the chance to put the theory into practice is worth the pay cut. "It's easy to just complain about people in government and say if only they ran it like a business it would work better," he said.
Mr. Runyon comes to the Postal Service with an eclectic resume, a career of equal parts trench warrior and management pioneer. He began his 37-year tour at the Ford Motor Company on the assembly line, but he rose quickly, ending up a top manufacturing executive, overseeing 29 factories and 120,000 workers. In 1980, he became president of the Nissan Motor Manufacturing Corporation U.S.A., setting up its plant in Smyrna, Tenn., at a time when mimicking Japanese management methods was all the rage.
EIGHT years later, Mr. Runyon first tried his hand at public-sector management, when he became chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, the electric utility serving seven Southern states. A New Deal creation, the T.V.A. did everything from give farmers advice on soil erosion to head economic development programs, in addition to supplying electricity to households and businesses.
Such benevolence was fine, but expensive. The electric rates paid by T.V.A. customers had climbed more than 10 percent a year in the two decades before Mr. Runyon arrived. He reversed the trend, holding rates steady for five years, by narrowing the T.V.A.'s focus to supplying power and sharply cutting the payroll. The effort earned Mr. Runyon the nickname Carvin' Marvin.
The joke making the rounds in Tennessee these days is that Mr. Runyon's departure for the Postal Service will bring the worst of both worlds: electric rates will go up and the bills will arrive sooner.
Mr. Runyon is a skilled practitioner of the symbolic gesture, understanding the value of the minor theatrics of leadership. These skills, no doubt, were honed at Nissan, where, in keeping with Japanese practice, he wore the same uniform as rank-and-file workers and dined in the same cafeteria. When he arrived at the T.V.A., he ordered the lights burning all night at the Knoxville headquarters to be shut off. The glowing headquarters building, he explained, was a symbol of waste.
Shortly after he came to the Postal Service, Mr. Runyon made an example of the in-house newspaper, to stress the new business-like ethos. He was shown the plans for the coming year for the paper, called Focus. Roughly 800,000 copies would be mailed out first-class, six times a year. He was told the cost would be about $600,000 for a year to produce it. Mr. Runyon asked about the mailing costs. "Oh, we don't pay postage," came the reply.
Mr. Runyon hit the roof, appalled at the free-lunch mentality. He immediately issued an edict: every department will be charged for its postage. "We've got to behave like a private business to compete," he said.
TO win cooperation for his overhaul, Mr. Runyon has worked to create a sense of urgency, even crisis, within the Postal Service. The numbers he uses, especially when speaking to workers and union leaders, are disturbing. He projects a $2 billion operating deficit for 1993, which his cost-cutting program is intended to eliminate. And he sees competition on every front, not just from established rivals like United Parcel Service and Federal Express, but from electronic mail, fax machines, even low-cost long-distance phone service. In all, Mr. Runyon estimates that 50 percent of the mail volume of the service and 40 percent of its revenues are under threat.
Union officials and others question Mr. Runyon's dire projections, suggesting that some of the urgency is manufactured. But even they tend to favor the middle-management cuts he's made.
"The bureaucracy is too bloated, and Runyon made up his mind and moved boldly to do something about it," said Vincent Sombrotto, president of the National Association of Letter Carriers, the union that represents 219,000 postal workers. "We think he did the right thing."
Mr. Runyon is trying to hold down prices at the Postal Service just as he did at the T.V.A. Since 1975 the price of a first-class stamp has nearly tripled, to 29 cents from 10 cents, an increase of 11 percent a year, far more than inflation. Traditionally, the Postal Service files for a rate increase every three years; the last one came in 1991.
"We're going to break that three-year cycle," Mr. Runyon said. "We are not going for a rate increase in 1994."
 
 
 
A KEY TO PROGRESS: THE UNIONS
 In his streamlining drive, Marvin Runyon has studiously avoided one word -- "layoffs" -- and repeated one pledge, "Anyone who touches the mail is safe." His stance is both tactically shrewd and a concession to reality. For the people who touch the mail are mainly protected by two powerful unions, the American Postal Workers Union, representing clerks, and the National Association of Letter Carriers. Together, the two unions represent two-thirds of the 730,000 employees of the Postal Service.
After six years of employment, the clerks and carriers are covered by a lifetime no-layoff provision. When the current four-year labor contract expires in 1994, Mr. Runyon could presumably try to change the longstanding provision, but it would be risky.
Labor cooperation is essential to Mr. Runyon's attempts to increase productivity. "He understands that the people who handle the mail control the service," said Norma Pace, an economist who is chairwoman of the Postal Service's board of governors. They also control a big share of the costs; 83 cents on the dollar goes to wages and benefits.
The unions also have political muscle. The Postal Service, though a quasi-independent agency, is subject to Congressional oversight. In the 18 months ended last June, the most recent period tabulated, the political action committees of the two main postal unions raised $2.4 million.
The unions are worried about certain trends like the practice of contracting out more jobs to nonunion workers, from janitorial services to repairing canvas mailbags. But so far, union leaders are cooperating with Mr. Runyon, because they approve of many of his measures and because they have survived many an ambitious postmaster general. "There are grave concerns here," said Moe Biller, the 77-year-old president of the American Postal Workers Union. "But I want to give the guy a chance before I start beating up on him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Runyon, Postmaster General, in his office in Washington. (George Tames for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: POSTAL SERVICE (US) GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL
INFORMATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LABOR FORCE (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (72%); 

PERSON: RUNYON, MARVIN; RUNYON, MARVIN (POSTMASTER GENERAL) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH);
LOHR, STEVE MARVIN RUNYON (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



516 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Pearce's Growing Domain

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
Seven years ago, the General Motors Corporation's legal department recruited an obscure trial lawyer from Bismarck, N.D., named Harry J. Pearce, who knew G.M. vehicle technology, having defended many product liability cases for the company.
Two weeks ago, in the G.M. shake up that elevated John F. (Jack) Smith Jr. to chief executive and John G. Smale to chairman, Mr. Pearce, 50, was the surprise choice to become the executive vice president in charge of G.M.'s two huge nonautomotive assets -- the Electronic Data Systems Corporation and the G.M. Hughes Electronics Corporation. 
 While Mr. Smith concentrates on restoring G.M.'s North American automotive business to profitability, Mr. Pearce has risen meteorically to become Mr. Everything Else of G.M.'s high command.
Chief among his tasks, he said in an interview last week, will be transferring technologies from E.D.S. and G.M. Hughes to the auto business, fulfilling a goal of the two acquisitions of the mid-1980's, which cost G.M. a combined $8 billion. But if G.M. does not start making money and needs capital, he may be forced to supervise the sale of one or both subsidiaries.
"Am I sitting around thinking about how to spin off these assets?" said Mr. Pearce, who earned an engineering degree before going to law school. "The answer is, 'No.' " Yet, he quickly added: "No one can predict the U.S. economy. No one can predict our industry. So if circumstances were to change dramatically, we wouldn't limit our thinking in any way. We would do what we have to do to insure that General Motors survived as a profitable corporation."
Wall Street, which is nervously watching G.M.'s tattered balance sheet and shaky credit ratings, knows that E.D.S. and, to a lesser extent, G.M. Hughes could be turned into fresh capital without harming automotive operations. The legalities and finances of unwinding a wholly owned subsidiaries represented by separate classes of common stock would be tricky, however, because the stocks are an odd invention that don't represent ownership but only dividends.
So, who better to have in place than a lawyer with a broader view?
"Harry is the best strategic thinker" at G.M., said Elmer W. Johnson, a former G.M. executive vice president who recruited Mr. Pearce. "He kept a diary for years detailing what he'd do if he ever had a chance to influence how cars were made, instead of fighting lawsuits."
Mr. Pearce also takes over G.M.'s government and industry affairs, and keeps his post as general counsel -- in all, an enormous portfolio that greatly extends his reach into the business operations of the company.
In the last few years, other G.M. executives "have been relying on him for not just legal but business judgment," said Ira Millstein, counsel to G.M.'s directors. "It's unusual for a lawyer to gain trust, but he's done it."
The question remains, however, whether Mr. Pearce's obsession for efficiency and performance can be amplified into an arena much larger than G.M.'s legal department. An opponent of G.M.'s go-along, get-along culture, he first showed his style when he was promoted to general counsel in 1987. Almost immediately, he weeded out dozens of in-house lawyers he deemed unproductive. To reduce bureaucracy, he stripped nearly everyone of their titles.
Armed with customized software that tracked billable hours and clerical costs, Mr. Pearce's department began forcing outside law firms to charge G.M. less money. In some cases, the economy was as simple as sending one lawyer to a deposition rather than three or four.
"I was put through it, and it taught me a lot about my own law firm," said Mr. Millstein, a senior partner of Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York.
With 19,000 active lawsuits and a staff of 409 lawyers, G.M. still managed to spend $497 million on legal expenses in 1991. But without the cost-cutting, the bill would have been $51 million more, G.M. says.
Mr. Pearce will try for a similar success pushing E.D.S. to develop more sophisticated computer services for G.M.'s automotive operations. New software, for example, could simplify the design of common parts for different models, thus trimming engineering and tooling costs. Standardizing parts "cries out for world-class data-processing techniques," Mr. Pearce said.
In G.M.'s array of businesses, E.D.S. is a highly profitable crown jewel that could fetch $10 billion to $12 billion. Independent analysts say the company is run efficiently. Mr. Pearce won't say so directly, but he is sure to be careful that in his drive for better technology, he doesn't reignite the feuding of the mid-1980's. That was caused when E.D.S.'s can-do culture clashed with G.M.'s bureaucratic style, and the clash led to the celebrated departure from G.M.'s board of E.D.S.'s founder, Ross Perot.
G.M. Hughes, an amalgam of businesses, is tougher to value.
Its Delco Electronics unit builds radios and other automotive electronics, and performs well as an automotive supplier.
Hughes Aircraft, on the other hand, has weak profits and is grappling with the transition from defense contracting to commercial markets. On Friday, Hughes Aircraft announced it was starting subsidiaries to increase sales abroad of its defense and commercial electronics equipment. One subsidiary will concentrate on Europe, the other on Asia. Currently, about 18 percent of Hughes Aircraft's business is overseas.
Many Hughes high-technology applications, like charging equipment for electric cars, are intriguing but may take several years to turn a profit.
"I intend to sort through the list of common projects of G.M. and Hughes to make sure we've sorted through our priorities and are working on the right things," Mr. Pearce said.
The replacement of electric arc welding by laser welding, he said, is an example of a Hughes project with great potential. "If we can use Hughes technology to build safer structures or to build them with less people, obviously it drops to the bottom line," he said.
Roger B. Smith first articulated the promise of high-technology in the mid-1980's when, as G.M. chairman, he bought E.D.S. and Hughes. E.D.S., he said, would make G.M. into a "paperless" corporation with every computer talking to every other computer, from the dealership to the factory floor. It hasn't happened. Most manufacturing experts say technology is key, but G.M. first must solve other problems, like poor relations between hourly workers and managers.
"We became intrigued with things like robotics and didn't do adequate training," said Mr. Pearce. "We have a lot to learn from the Japanese; they are masters of simple approaches."
In discussions of advanced technology, Mr. Pearce brings a formal background that includes undergraduate training in engineering at the Air Force Academy. Because of color blindness, he eventually went to law school and served as an Air Force lawyer instead of as a fighter pilot.
After military service, he returned home to his father's law practice in North Dakota, where he represented G.M. and others for 15 years in product liability lawsuits. For those cases, he had to learn the intricacies of automotive engineering design.
During the so-called X-car trial of the early 1980's, when G.M. successfully defended the brake system of its X-body mid-size cars, "he was the technical guru," said James Farmer, now a vice president of G.M.'s Saturn Corporation, who worked with Mr. Pearce during the trial. "He made Perry Mason sound like a first-year law student."
Mr. Johnson, who himself was recruited from outside G.M. by Roger Smith, told Mr. Pearce in 1985 he would have a shot at becoming general counsel one day. After winning the job two years later, Mr. Pearce discovered at executive lunch meetings that he and Jack Smith shared a disdain for titles and for hierarchy.
"Jack's a pretty unstructured guy," said Mr. Pearce. "He's looking for good analysis and the logic of your position. There's not much difference between the cost problems of legal departments and elsewhere."
 
 
 
THE CHAINS OF COMMAND
 To demonstrate his disdain for hierarchical management practices at the General Motors Corporation, Harry J. Pearce often meets with clerks, secretaries and junior executives.
"If we can get people out from under bureaucracies and excessive management, our people will be our strongest asset and biggest contributors," he said.
But as executive vice president in charge of the company's Electronic Data Systems and G.M. Hughes Electronic subsidiaries, Mr. Pearce probably will conform more closely to the chain of command as he tries to coax out of the units more technology that will help G.M.'s auto business.
At E.D.S., Lester M. Alberthal Jr. is the chairman and chief executive; at G.M. Hughes, C. Michael Armstrong is the chief executive, but Mr. Pearce will be chairman.
E.D.S. has two officers, Paul Chiapparone and Frank Stoneking, who oversee work for G.M., which accounts for about half of E.D.S.'s revenue. Mr. Chiapparone gained celebrity as one of two E.D.S. executives rescued from Iran in a mission mounted by the company's founder, Ross Perot.
At Hughes, Mr. Armstrong's No. 2 is Michael T. Smith, whose brother Jack is G.M.'s new chief executive.
"These are two strong management teams who have done a good job of creating horizontal organizations," Mr. Pearce said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Pearce: A legal eagle who also knows engineering. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)
 
Graphs track revenues and net earnings for General Motors, E.D.S. and G.M. Hughes, 1987-1992 (Source: General Motors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (83%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (71%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP; GM HUGHES ELECTRONICS
CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (92%); DIRECTV (83%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP; GM HUGHES ELECTRONICS
CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES LAWYERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); COMMON STOCK (65%); 

PERSON: PEARCE, HARRY J; LEVIN, DORON P; SMITH, OHN F JR; SMALE, JOHN G HARRY J PEARCE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



517 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Sound Bytes;
Here Comes Comdex/Fall Again, With Thumbs Up

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
COMDEX/FALL is the mother of all trade shows. This year's five-day personal computer extravaganza, which opens tomorrow in Las Vegas, is expected to attract 130,000 buyers, sellers, manufacturers and journalists, who come to make deals and see the latest technologies. Sheldon G. Adelson, chairman and chief executive of the Interface Group in Needham, Mass., an operator of computer trade shows and vacation companies, started the Comdex show in 1979, in a hotel ballroom. Now he owns, among other things, the Sands hotel and casino.
Question: What is the industry's current financial and emotional health? 
 Answer: If I look at the growth of Comdex this year, and then I read The New York Times and see words like "recession" and "economic stagnation," I think I'm in two different worlds. In terms of numbers of companies participating in Comdex, we're seeing growth of 5 or 7 percent, to 2,000 companies. Exhibit space is up 5 percent. Preregistration is up 31 percent.
Q: So your industry indicators are all pointing up?
A: The best barometer that exists is the organizer of the trade show, because he knows who's doing what. Exhibitors are telling us what their plans are, whether they're going to be extravagant or conservative, whether they're going to shrink or enlarge their space, and I tell you, it works like a clock. The signs are up.
Q: Who has the largest display this year?
A: I think it's I.B.M., somewhere between 25,000 and 30,000 square feet of space. Microsoft is probably right up there.
Q: What's the going rate for a square foot?
A: The standard is $37.95. So now you want to figure out how much they paid us? Almost $1 million for each of those companies.
Q: How many feet have you sold overall?
A: About 1.2 million, net. Don't try to figure out how much we make. We don't discuss that. We do make money, but we certainly don't make the money that you're going to figure out that it looks like we're making.
Q: Comdex/Fall has become the monster that ate Las Vegas, and you created the monster. Any survival tips for the attendees?
A: Put in a full day. Also, no one person could run up and down 23 miles of aisles; you've got to have multiple people coming from one organization. Get up early and prepare your attack.
Q: And wear sneakers.
A: If you wear regular leather shoes, put footpads in them. I do.

 
 
SHELDON G. ADELSON

 
 Born: Aug. 4, 1933, Boston.
 Homes: Boston, Las Vegas, Tel Aviv.
 Education: Junior college, court reporting; night classes in finance and communications at City College of New York.
 Drives: Mercedes 300E (" '90? '91?"). Is shopping for a Jeep.
 Flying habits: Owns a travel company and charter airline.
 Ideal escape: "I love the sun. If I have enough time, Maui; if not, St. Martin."
 Current noncomputer reading: Books about Israel's founding and existence.
 Hobbies: Traveling, boating, snow skiing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheldon G. Adelson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMDEX (COMPUTER TRADE SHOW); SHOWS TRADE SHOWS (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (73%); WRITERS (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, SHELDON G; ADELSON, SHELDON G (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) SHELDON G ADELSON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



518 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 23; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3914 words

HEADLINE: Staging Painterly Visions

BYLINE: By John Rockwell; John Rockwell is European cultural correspondent for The Times.

 BODY:
When I was young, I did a children's play," Robert Wilson recalled recently. "I had 10 10-year-old boys wrapped in Saran Wrap so tight they had only one finger free. After five minutes, one of the mothers screamed, 'Mothers should take their children off the stage.' Afterwards, my father said, 'Son, not only was that thing absurd, it was sick.' "
There are those who have the same reaction to Wilson's mammoth theater pieces today; at every Wilson performance, some people can be counted on to walk out, huffily. Sometimes half the audience does, especially in his native United States. But those who stay, stay to cheer. Enough have cheered so that Wilson can be considered this country's -- or even the world's -- foremost vanguard "theater artist," a term that almost seems to have been coined for him. 
 Over his 25-year career in the theater, the 51-year-old Wilson has defined a new kind of hybrid stage work, one that combines glacial movement, painterly visions, stylized articulation of text or song and -- especially when he isn't reinterpreting the classics and is creating new work of his own -- a bizarre, post-modern, neo-Surrealist world view. Within the universe of avant-garde theater, at least, the term "Wilsonian" means something almost as distinct and original as "Brechtian."
Wilson's astonishingly copious output is now produced mostly in Europe, with only occasional pieces seen here. Abroad, Wilson looks like the archetype of what Europeans prize in American renegade movie actors, jazz loners, minimalist composers and oddball authors: a natural genius, an untutored eccentric who brings something fresh and uncompromised to the jaded European palate. He even comes from a legendary American state, Texas, to boot.
But his refusal to conform to mainstream conventions scares many Americans, unsure of their high-art credentials. His own work -- from the 12-hour "The Life and Times of Joseph Stalin" in 1973 to the five-hour "Einstein on the Beach" in 1976 to the uncompleted daylong "The Civil Wars: A Tree Is Best Measured When It Is Down" of 1984 -- is austere, stylized and, usually, protracted. It clashes with the staid, loosely naturalistic conventions of Broadway, films and television: a self-contained, more-than-three-hour act of "The Civil Wars" was recommended for a Pulitzer Prize by the jury for drama, but rejected by the Pulitzer board. His interpretations of classics can seem willful and bizarre. His biggest, and hence best, works are enormously expensive to produce, both in terms of scenic requirements and especially in the huge amount of rehearsal time that Wilson demands.
Now, however, even in the teeth of the current recession, Wilson's American prospects may be improving. Houston is becoming one American base, with a well-regarded production at the Houston Grand Opera of Wagner's "Parsifal" in February (first seen in Hamburg, Germany) and a new association with the Alley Theater that this fall involves a Wilson production of Georg Buchner's play "Danton's Death." Near New York, his official residence since 1962, he is building a museum, workshop and residence in Water Mill, L.I.
This summer, his staging of a Gertrude Stein play, "Doctor Faustus Lights the Lights," acted by drama students from the eastern part of Berlin, was done at Alice Tully Hall in Manhattan as part of Lincoln Center's Serious Fun festival. And on Thursday, a second revival of "Einstein on the Beach," his pioneering post-modernist collaboration with the composer Philip Glass that counts as his most famous work, will reappear at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
"I don't want to be an expatriate," Wilson says plaintively in the coldly impersonal apartment he had taken for the Hamburg "Parsifal" rehearsals. "I'm an American, and I want to keep my American roots."
AS A "THEATER ARTIST," Wilson is a stage director and also (perhaps pre-eminently) a set and lighting designer. For the last decade, he has played those roles in the staging of dramatic and operatic classics and in modern repertory, including plays by Marguerite Duras of France and Tankred Dorst and Heiner Muller of Germany, an opera by the Italian Giacomo Manzoni and an "Orlando" monologue masterfully compressed from Virginia Woolf's novel by the European-based American novelist Darryl Pinckney.
He has also created his own work, but his way of creating and collaborating is most unusual. Wilson is not a writer (except for occasional neo-Dadaist scenes) or a composer or a choreographer, yet he remains the dominant force in any production.
"Collaboration is very personal," says Jennifer Tipton, the renowned lighting designer who has chosen to work regularly with Wilson -- the set designer John Conklin has made the same choice -- when she could be earning more elsewhere. "I've learned a lot from him, and I hope he's learned from me. But my work with him is in no way my work."
Even his "dead collaborators," as one could call Shakespeare, Mozart and Wagner, are bent to his sensibility. Thus a Wilson staging of, say, "King Lear" is hardly the one "King Lear" you would like to pass on to your grandchildren (among other novelties, Wilson cast an 80-year-old German actress, Marianne Hoppe, in the title role). But as a statement in itself, a challenging clash of sensibilities across the centuries, it was fascinating.
Wilson blithely evokes canonical figures to justify his single-minded fixations: the dinosaurs, earthquake chasms and elongated chairs that recur from production to production. "Proust said he was always writing the same novel," Wilson says. "Cezanne said he was always painting the same still life. It is one body, one statement. But laws are made to be broken, too. You build a vocabulary and then you destroy it, and out of this destruction you build a new vocabulary. The best thing is to try to contradict yourself, to find collaborators as different as, say, Tom Waits and Heiner Muller. Listening to other people helps you to find new ideas, new windows."
When left to his own devices, Wilson's projects often take on a Wagnerian grandiosity. For an artist who arose out of New York 1960's minimalism, Wilson is a true maximalist of ambition and scale: For him, more is more, so that his intimate or low-budget works, the ones usually seen in New York, seriously misrepresent his achievement. His blockbuster for the 1990's is to be a two-part operatic extravaganza with Glass. The first part, entitled "White Raven," is scheduled for Bonn and Lisbon in 1994 and the second, "The Palace of the Arabian Nights," is to follow a couple of years later, possibly in Paris, with the combined diptych also in Paris.
What has distinguished Wilson's theater from the very beginning, despite enormous differences of subject and collaborative participation, has been his visionary stage pictures. Even without texts, as in his early works from the mid-60's to the early 70's, Wilson established a dreamlike narrative logic through a succession of vivid images, some indebted to other artists but indisputably original in their three-dimensionality and cumulative impact. No one person could say definitively what the pictures "meant" or tell their "story," but every sympathetic observer felt sure they meant something, something personal and profound.
For example, the final tableau of his 1988 "Le Martyre de Saint Sebastien" in Paris was all in dazzling white, a heaven containing white animals and white trees against a brilliant white backdrop, with the dancer Sylvie Guillem poised ethereally at the center but with a blood-red medieval figure of Death, complete with blood-red scythe, creeping slowly across the lip of the stage. Or take an image from "Stalin": a line of apes emerging from a dark and shadowy forest, scratching and picking at one another, then watching in dumb amazement as bright red apples rise from their paws and disappear upward, while a human couple in silver 18th-century formal dress appear from the left, the woman's parasol literally on fire as the curtain falls.
Such images stick in the memory with the force of an epiphany. Wilson himself is guarded about the religious implications of his work, and deliberately shied away from Christian trappings in his Hamburg-Houston "Parsifal."
"For me, to work is a religious experience," he says. "But I hate the word 'religious' and I hate to see religion on stage. What bothers me about 'Parsifal' is all this sacrilegious ritual when the music is religious. I tried to make the Grail scenes a private experience. Religion is inside. It's truth, in here, not some big gesture -- that's just acting."
Wilson's real religion, his God, has always been light; hence his plays about Einstein and Edison, who shared that faith, and, perhaps, his initial interest in the Gertrude Stein title "Doctor Faustus Lights the Lights." "Without light there is no space," he argues. "Light is the essential element in the theater, because it lets us see and hear. It's what produces color and emotion."
ROBERT WILSON IS A 6-foot-4-inch man with a way of walking that oddly combines stiff reserve with sinuous, sensuous grace. His manner similarly blends grave introspection, weepy sentiment and giddy humor. He was born the son of a God-fearing lawyer and a homemaker; he has a younger sister who lives in Houston. Both his parents are dead. By all accounts, Wilson was a strange, self-possessed boy, marked for something different from what his parents might have wished for him.
At the age of 17 he was cured of childhood stuttering by a Waco dance teacher named Bird Hoffmann, who slowed down his speech and taught him to express himself through movement; in gratitude, he still calls his New York office the Byrd Hoffman Foundation (the spelling change perhaps reflects an early aspiration toward artiness). Although he spent three years at the University of Texas in Austin to appease his parents (his father was by then the city manager of Waco), his real interest was working with brain-damaged children and a children's theater group. In 1962, he quit Texas for New York to study design and the arts at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, where he graduated with a degree in fine arts in 1965. Although he acted in student plays and was exposed to the happenings and experimental theater of the time, Wilson thought of himself as a painter.
But something was lacking. In 1966 he suffered a nervous breakdown and spent several months as a patient in a mental institution. "I was very frustrated in the 60's," he recalls. "Then I realized I could do things on stage as a painter that I couldn't do on canvas. The stage brought together a lot of things; all the elements were there. Now I've gone back to painting, and I feel so much freer, so much more knowledgeable about myself."
His early theater, dance and performance works were both a refutation of prevailing conventions and an artistic expression of his continuing work with brain-damaged and autistic children and with chronically ill adults. In 1967 he created a slow-motion "dance" for patients in iron lungs. Important early collaborators included two teen-agers, Raymond Andrews who was deaf and Christopher Knowles who was autistic.
Even though he frequently appeared as a kind of pioneer performance artist in New York in the late 60's, Wilson earned little money and had to teach and conduct workshops to support himself. His breakthrough, the work that established him as a hero with European intellectuals, was the production in Paris of "Deafman Glance" in 1971, first seen in New York earlier that year and later incorporated into "Stalin."
"The French told me, You've had a phenomenal success," he says. "You can work, if you want, for the rest of your life in the theater. The offers came in. Before that, I really didn't know what to do with my life."
Proof of French enthusiasm was a $225,000 Government gift enabling him to present "Einstein on the Beach" at the Avignon Festival in the summer of 1976, then in Paris as part of a fall European tour and finally, in two performances arranged by Wilson, at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York in late November of that year. Its images of the scientist as innocent creator and inadvertent destroyer, of science and art on trial, of terrorism (Patty Hearst makes an appearance) and sentimental love transfixed audiences then and later in a popular recording: Glass's rippling minimalist music was also a landmark in his career. "Einstein" had a comparable success again in the slightly revised 1984 revival and again this summer and fall with the revival tour of the 1984 version due in Brooklyn this week.
"My father couldn't come to Paris in 1971," Wilson remembers. "Later, I invited him to 'A Letter for Queen Victoria' in Paris in 1974. He said he'd think about it. It opened on his birthday. He arrived and left the next morning and didn't say anything about the performance and I didn't ask him. A week later, he wrote me a letter that said, 'Son, your play had great beauty and poetry.' " (Wilson's 90-year-old maternal grandmother played the title role.)
"In 1976, he came to 'Einstein.' He said, 'Son, you must be making a lot of money.' I said, 'No, sir, it cost $1 million and I'm $125,000 in debt.' He said, 'Son, I didn't know you were smart enough to be able to lose $125,000.' I said, 'Dad, it was easy.' But that was one of the nicest things he ever said to me."
OVER THE YEARS, for better and for worse, he has changed. For some of his early devotees, fearful that his style has hardened into mannerism, it sounds like a rationalization to hear him remark: "As you grow older, you realize that compromise is part of theater. At the time, it may seem very painful, but in the long run, you learn from it."
Beyond the move a decade ago to staging works by others, the major change in his working habits has been his switch from amateur, volunteer American actors, many of them overt disciples, to professionals, particularly an accomplished cadre of German and French actors. Another has been the decision not to produce his work himself, to avoid the endless fund raising and crippling financial obligations of the 1976 "Einstein." There has been an increasing reliance on newly composed music and, more strikingly, a coming to terms with text.
A key to that development has been his collaboration with Heiner Muller, the (formerly East) Berlin playwright who looks and acts rather like Brecht and whose elliptical, densely layered works (notably "Hamletmachine") enjoy a big reputation in Europe. Muller has learned from Wilson, too: next summer he is scheduled to direct "Tristan und Isolde" at Bayreuth.
It would seem an open question just how much Wilson, who speaks only English, has really changed in his approach to words, or indeed to the craft of acting, and how intellectual he really is in his conceptualization of the classic pieces he directs. He prefers short texts, or he cuts theatrical classics radically and fills out the silences with gesture, movement and images. And he is still a minimalist in that his designs and his philosophy of acting create a neutral backdrop against which actors simply declaim the words, avoiding traditional theatrical interpretation. Recently he has begun to employ a stiff, Japanese-style gestural language in place of naturalistic movement and articulation.
"He feels the less we inflect the line, the more impact the words and actions will have," says Annette Paulmann, a young actress whose leading role in "The Black Rider," a popular Wilson collaboration with the rock composer Tom Waits in Hamburg, has propelled her to stardom in the German-speaking theatrical world ("She's my baby," the director remarks fondly).
Wilson is not above using psychology to elicit emotion. "An actor in 'The Black Rider' was having trouble with a ballad," he says. "I asked him, 'Who do you love?' He said, 'I have my wife, but it's a mess. I do have my 5-year-old daughter.' So I said, 'Sing it to her.' "
But mostly Wilson sets limits, suggests movements and then hopes the actor will fill in the blanks. As Dunja Vejzovic, a Croatian mezzo-soprano who sang Kundry in "Parsifal" in Hamburg and Houston and who is one of Wilson's more conscientious operatic actors, puts it: "Bob's language is pictures. He gives us the forms and we have to fill them with life."
Jutta Lampe, the Berlin actress who played Orlando in the Wilson-Woolf monologue, says: "Bob doesn't actually direct the pieces per se. His school is his own school."
All his career, Wilson has had to contend with charges that his work is merely imagistic, merely "pretty pictures," as he once himself disparaged himself. In interviews, he would still rather sketch designs than describe intentions. Some critics see his obsession with scenery as little more than a pretentious version of the likes of Franco Zeffirelli and Andrew Lloyd Webber. But some of Wilson's actors think he is cleverer than a mere imagist. "Bob counts on the audience's knowledge of a classic," Vejzovic argues. "He uses that knowledge and plays against it."
Wilson's directoral technique is the same for all of his operas or plays. He videotapes workshops in which he answers questions from actors or singers by miming the roles on camera. As with any innovative choreographer, his own movements, spidery and intense, are almost always more riveting than any imitator's. Routine actors give rote reflections of his movements but miss his undercurrents of terror, surprise and dark wit. The good ones build their own performances in a dialogue with his. The strongest ones, like Lampe and Guillem, blossom in the Wilson hothouse, finding in his devices liberation and inspiration rather than constraint.
It all comes down to the intuitive connection with Wilson that one performer may feel and another may not. "Look at her," Wilson says during a "Parsifal" rehearsal, pointing to one of two identically costumed Grail knights. "Look at her presence, the way the music is always inside her. That's what you need for Wagner." Or for Wilson, one might add. "The other girl, she looks like she's waiting for a bus. Dunja can be very still, and to do this kind of music, you have to start with stillness.
"Most actors are too text-oriented," Wilson complains. "The ones at the Schaubuhne in Berlin are more into movement. Martha Graham said once that when you turn, the whole universe turns with you. I don't want interpretation. Pieces like 'Parsifal' are so huge, so limitless, so full of ideas. As soon as you begin to narrow the interpretation, it's interesting but only that. Wagner has an inner logic. You don't need to interpret him psychologically; that only diminishes him. I look at it structurally. My idea is, If you don't know where you're going, you can't get there. For me, time is a horizontal line and space is vertical. So when Parsifal takes the lance and turns it vertically, that is time turning into space.
"The problem is when directors and actors think too much. Peter Sellars is too clever, too busy. I see Mozart, but I can't hear the music. In 'Parsifal,' I wanted to make a space where you could hear the music. The trick is to keep it superficially simple. Theater has to be about one thing first, then it can be about a million things."
AS HE HAS matured, Wilson has developed a way of working that permits him to get an amazing number of complex new productions onto the stage every year: four or more is normal. The system entails workshops involving either student stand-ins or the actual principals a year or more before the formal rehearsals begin, to help him refine his ideas. Thus, at any time as many as eight or nine productions are in various stages of development.
Alain Coblence, a French-American lawyer who is chairman of the board of Wilson's foundation, says Wilson has reduced by more than 50 percent the time he needs to achieve what he wants. Yet the director demanded and got 80 hours of rehearsals for lighting alone for the Hamburg "Parsifal." There still wasn't enough time to light a starry backdrop he had built for the final scene and he had to play it against a blank cyclorama -- an omission that was corrected by the time the production reached Houston.
Wilson's seemingly manic overachievement -- dashing about the globe to meetings and workshops and productions, bowing stiffly at one premiere and then hurrying off to the next -- has led to charges that he has greedily stretched himself too thin, particularly if compared to the mystical, contemplative, communal mode of working that defined his first theatrical ventures.
Coblence answers the charge of greed by pointing out that Wilson negotiations involve demands for rehearsal time more than for money. Wilson receives a salary from his foundation -- around $75,000 annually. He does have a sideline in his handcrafted chairs and other furniture, which are sold as art objects. But all his income from the theater, as well as the contributions of a few longtime patrons (including Pierre Berge of the Paris Opera and his business partner, Yves St. Laurent), goes to the foundation and is spent on workshops and other developmental projects.
Those who admire him worry about his overextension. "He does too much, but he's a true workaholic," says Lampe. "He empties himself." Wilson believes his variety of work serves as inspiration. "When I was 9 years old," he recalls, "somebody asked my mother on the telephone what I was doing and she said, 'I don't know, but he always has a lot of projects.' My father used to warn me to concentrate my energy on one thing. But it helps me to have many things going on at once; it makes things richer. It helped me to be working on 'King Lear' and 'The Black Rider' at the same time. It gave me different perspectives and let me contradict myself."
ONE PROBLEM ALL HIS wanderings have not solved is loneliness, which surely seems one reason for his longing for an American base. His closest collaborators become a source of emotional solace: Lampe remembers her initial fear of him turning into love and Wilson speaks of "the people I work with as a kind of family, even though they all have their own private lives." But that's not really enough, since Wilson, who avoids all public discussion of his private life, seems to have no steady intimate relationship and little immediate prospect of one, given his schedule.
In the meantime, the projects stretch into the future: a new "Don Juan" that has just opened in Madrid, a film with the dancer Trisha Brown, a second Hamburg collaboration with Tom Waits in December based on "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking Glass," Mozart's "Idomeneo" in Budapest, a new play for the Comedie Francaise in Paris, a Monteverdi madrigals evening produced by Milan's La Scala opera, a French version of "Orlando" with Isabelle Huppert that is then to be refashioned into Wilson's first feature film.
"Right now, I enjoy the work, I like the work, I'm in a very productive period," he says. "Ten days ago I was painting in Milan. A week ago I was talking to La Scala. Two days ago I spent the day with Phil Glass, and I just spoke with Marguerite Duras on the telephone. It's exciting for me.
"I know myself well enough that if I stay in one place too long, I have to move on. I think I know more people now in European cities than I know in New York. It's a very lonely life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Wilson on the set of "Danton's Death" in Houston. (Danny Turner for The New York Times)(pg. 22); Luminous scenes from "The Black Rider" (Martin Eberle) and "Parzival" (A play based on the legend of Parsifal)(Ralf Brinkhoff), both at the Thalia Theater in Hamburg, Germany. (pg. 23); "Einstein on the Beach," Wilson's most famous work, reappears this week at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (pg. 26)(Photograph by Martha Swope Associates/William Gibson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (73%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); FILM (75%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (66%); WRITERS (63%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN; WILSON, ROBERT; WILSON, ROBERT (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) ROBERT WILSON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1992



519 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Indian Land Disputes;
South Carolina Settling Catawba Claim

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

DATELINE: ROCK HILL, S.C.

 BODY:
THIS state is close to settling the land claim of the Catawba Indian tribe. If the settlement is approved by Congress, the claim will raise the total Federal Government payments to Indian tribes east of the Mississippi River to nearly $200 million in the aftermath of landmark Supreme Court decisions since 1975.
In return for $30 million from the Federal Government and $20 million from South Carolina and local public and private sources, the Catawbas will relinquish claim to 144,000 acres surrounding and including this picturesque college town of 42,000 people 35 miles south of Charlotte, N.C. The land now includes such valuable property as Winthrop College and Heritage USA, the Christian theme park built by the disgraced evangelist Jim Bakker. 
 So far, the Federal Government and Florida, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Virginia and Minnesota have settled Indian claims.
The Passamaquoddy, Penobscot and the Houlton Band of the Maliseet tribes, which claimed more than half of Maine, have won the largest settlement to date, $81.5 million, agreed to in 1980.
Still unresolved, though, are claims in New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Louisiana. In New York, negotiations continue with the Cayuga tribe, claiming 64,000 acres in Cayuga County, the Mohawk tribe, claiming 17,000 acres on the St. Lawrence River, and the Oneidas, claiming 240,000 acres in Oneida and Madison Counties.
The Catawba tribe, with 1,400 members still living in this section of northern South Carolina, used an innovative legal lever to get its way.
Just days before the settlement agreement was reached last August, the Catawbas stood poised to file lawsuits in Federal Court against each of the 61,767 landowners in the three-county area that they will relinquish.
The papers for the lawsuits -- each 18-inches thick -- are stored in a printer's warehouse in Rockville, Md., and will be filed if the settlement is not ratified by Congress and the South Carolina General Assembly, said Don Miller, a lawyer with the Native American Rights Fund in Boulder, Colo., who handled the Catawba case.
It was the threat of such a huge legal headache at the little York County Courthouse and in the offices of the dozen or so lawyers who practice here that convinced politicians to act, Mr. Miller said.
In addition, the lawsuits would have clouded the titles of all the property here, jeopardizing landowners' ability to sell their property. Stephen Turner, director of the Rock Hill Economic Development Corporation, believes the threat of lawsuits and the difficulty in getting title insurance caused several businesses to locate elsewhere.
Real estate agents said, too, that the possibility of court cases caused a decrease in home sales every month since April. By comparison, home sales in nearby Charlotte increased each month.
"Historical justice never got a settlement," said Mr. Miller, the Catawbas' lawyer. "There has to be a need for it, and the need has to alleviate potential discomfort for non-Indians. You walk a fine line."
One of the leading negotiators for the Federal Government was Representative John M. Spratt Jr., a Democrat who represents the area and owns a large parcel of land in the claim area. His ancestor, Kanawha Spratt, was the first white to lease part of the reservation from the Catawbas. The tribe had been granted the 144,000 acres by the Crown in 1763 in return for giving up claim to a much larger tract.
But within 60 years, South Carolina had control of virtually all the Catawba reservation. In 1840, the Catawbas agreed to give the state title to the land in return for 5,000 acres. Three years later, the state gave the tribe 640 acres, where about 50 tribal families live today, beside the Catawba River.
TRIBAL leaders have been trying to press their land claim though the Federal Government and the state since the early part of this century. They maintain that Congress never ratified any of the treaties, so they are not valid. Besides, they say, the state never lived up to its promises.
In addition to payments from the state and Federal governments, the settlement calls for $1.4 million from title insurance companies, $500,000 from Duke Power Company, $500,000 from Crescent Resources, $2 million from York County, $250,000 from Lancaster County and other contributions from banks and individuals. The payments are to be made over a five- or six-year period.
The money will go into several funds to be managed either by a private financier or the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Miller said. The tribe wants the money to be held in trust for economic development, education and social services, especially health care and housing. On the reservation, about a third of the homes lack indoor plumbing, while the rest look somewhere between poor-but-maintained to middle-class.
There is only one paved road and no businesses on the reservation. An unheated gym was built with Federal funds 20 years ago.
Some of the settlement money, said the tribe's chief, Gilbert Blue, will buy as much as 4,000 acres next to the reservation, where leaders hope to build a new housing development, a tribal government center, a community center and some type of tourist-related facility like a museum or educational center.
He said the settlement would allow the tribe to operate bingo games, but there is not much fervor for gambling from the predominantly Mormon tribe. Instead, the tribe would rather invest in some type of industrial development in the area.
A small percentage of the money will be paid out to tribal members, who will be identified by a membership roll published in the Federal Record in 1961. Anyone on the list or their descendants will be eligible for the per-capita payment.
Lawyers' fees have not been determined, but that payment will not exceed 10 percent of the settlement, Mr. Miller said.
For the most part, the large financial gains for the tribes have have come not through the courts -- the two Supreme Court decisions notwithstanding -- but through political pressure, said Mike Anderson, the executive director of the National Congress of American Indians, an advocacy group in Washington.
"I think all parties see that the court process could take years and years and the legislative process is a way to short-circuit that," he said.
BUT lawyers who represented some of the tribes say while expediency played a part, political pressure was most advantageous because the tribes knew they could not win in the courts.
In fact, the only case an Indian tribe has lost was one that went before a jury in Massachusetts, where the Mashpee Wampanoag tribe sued every landowner in a portion of Cape Cod, including Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. The jury found the tribe ceased to exist in the 1800's, so no damages were merited.
"You've got to consider what you are asking the court to do: to displace people who have acquired the land in good faith," said Arlinda Locklear, the attorney for New York's Oneida tribe. "That would cause economic disruption far beyond anything a Federal court has ever done, including the integration cases."
The Supreme Court has issued two pivotal rulings for the rights of Indian tribes. In 1975, the court said that all tribes, even those that the Federal Government did not recognize, like the Catawbas and the three in Maine, would be protected by the law that prevents the acquisition of Indian lands unless Congress approves.
Then in 1985, the Supreme Court ruled that the Oneidas still owned their land because the United States had never approved the transaction.
"The court applied the law as it found it," said Ms. Locklear. "But no Federal court has ever transferred a single acre of land. That may be asking too much."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gilbert Blue, the chief of the Catawba Indians, outside the recreation center on the tribal land near Rock Hill in northern South Carolina. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Carolina showing the 15-square mile Catawaba land claim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROCK HILL HERALD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; INDIANS, AMERICAN; CATAWBA INDIANS INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); COUNTIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); LAWYERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TITLE INSURANCE (69%); RELIGION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN JOHN M SPRATT JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



520 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
South Carolina Settling Catawba Claim

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

DATELINE: ROCK HILL, S.C.

 BODY:
This state is close to settling the land claim of the Catawba Indian tribe. If the settlement is approved by Congress, the claim will raise the total Federal Government payments to Indian tribes east of the Mississippi River to nearly $200 million in the aftermath of landmark Supreme Court decisions since 1975.
In return for $30 million from the Federal Government and $20 million from South Carolina and local public and private sources, the Catawbas will relinquish claim to 144,000 acres surrounding and including this picturesque college town of 42,000 people 35 miles south of Charlotte, N.C. The land now includes such valuable property as Winthrop College and Heritage USA, the Christian theme park built by the disgraced evangelist Jim Bakker. 
 So far, the Federal Government and Florida, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Virginia and Minnesota have settled Indian claims. The Passamaquoddy, Penobscot and the Houlton Band of the Maliseet tribes, which claimed more than half of Maine, have won the largest settlement to date, $81.5 million, agreed to in 1980.
Still unresolved, though, are claims in New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Louisiana. In New York, negotiations continue with the Cayuga tribe, claiming 64,000 acres in Cayuga County, the Mohawk tribe, claiming 17,000 acres on the St. Lawrence River, and the Oneidas, claiming 240,000 acres in Oneida and Madison Counties.
The Catawba tribe, with 1,400 members still living in this section of northern South Carolina, used an innovative legal lever to get their way.
Just days before the settlement agreement was reached last August, the Catawbas stood poised to file lawsuits in Federal Court against each of the 61,767 landowners in the three-county area that they will relinquish.
The papers for the lawsuits -- each 18-inches thick -- are stored in a printer's warehouse in Rockville, Md., and will be filed if the settlement is not ratified by Congress and the South Carolina General Assembly, said Don Miller, a lawyer with the Native American Rights Fund in Boulder, Colo., who handled the Catawba case.
It was the threat of such a huge legal headache at the little York County Courthouse and in the offices of the dozen or so lawyers who practice here that convinced politicians to act, Mr. Miller said.
In addition, the lawsuits would have clouded the titles of all the property here, jeopardizing landowners' ability to sell their property. Stephen Turner, director of the Rock Hill Economic Development Corporation, believes the threat of lawsuits and the difficulty in getting title insurance caused several businesses to locate elsewhere.
Real estate agents said, too, that the possibility of court cases caused a decrease in home sales every month since April. By comparison, home sales in nearby Charlotte increased each month.
"Historical justice never got a settlement," said Mr. Miller, the Catawbas' lawyer. "There has to be a need for it, and the need has to alleviate potential discomfort for non-Indians. You walk a fine line."
One of the leading negotiators for the Federal Government was Representative John M. Spratt Jr., a Democrat who represents the area and owns a large parcel of land in the claim area. His ancestor, Kanawha Spratt, was the first white to lease part of the reservation from the Catawbas. The tribe had been granted the 144,000 acres by the King George III of England in 1763 in return for giving up claim to a much larger tract.
But within 60 years, South Carolina had control of virtually all the Catawba reservation. In 1840, the Catawbas agreed to give the state title to the land in return for 5,000 acres. Three years later, the state gave the tribe 640 acres, where about 50 tribal families live today, beside the Catawba River.
Tribal leaders have been trying to press their land claim though the Federal Government and the state since the early part of this century. They maintain that Congress never ratified any of the treaties, so they are not valid. Besides, they say, the state never lived up to its promises.
In addition to payments from the state and Federal governments, the settlement calls for $1.4 million from title insurance companies, $500,000 from Duke Power Company, $500,000 from Crescent Resources, $2 million from York County, $250,000 from Lancaster County and other contributions from banks and individuals. The payments are to be made over a five- or six-year period.
The money will go into several funds to be managed either by a private financier or the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Miller said. The tribe wants the money to be held in trust for economic development, education and social services, especially health care and housing. On the reservation, about a third of the homes lack indoor plumbing, while the rest look somewhere between poor-but-maintained to middle-class.
There is only one paved road and no businesses on the reservation. An unheated gymnasium was built with Federal funds 20 years ago.
Some of the settlement money will go toward buying as much as 4,000 acres next to the reservation, where leaders hope to build a new housing development, a tribal government center, a community center and some type of tourist-related facility like a museum or educational center.
Mr. Miller said the settlement will allow the tribe to operate bingo games, but there is not much fervor for gambling from the predominantly Mormon tribe. Instead, the tribe would rather invest in some type of industrial development in the area.
A small percentage of the money will be paid out to tribal members, who will be identified by a membership roll published in the Federal Record in 1961. Anyone on the list or their descendants will be eligible for the per-capita payment.
Lawyers' fees have not been determined, but that payment will not exceed 10 percent of the settlement, Mr. Miller said.
For the most part, the large financial gains for the tribes have have come not through the courts -- the two Supreme Court decisions notwithstanding -- but through political pressure, said Mike Anderson, the executive director of the National Congress of American Indians, an advocacy group in Washington.
"I think all parties see that the court process could take years and years and the legislative process is a way to short-circuit that," he said.
But lawyers who represented some of the tribes say while expediency played a part, political pressure was most advantageous because the tribes knew they could not win in the courts.
In fact, the only case an Indian tribe has lost was one that went before a jury in Massachusetts, where the Mashpee Wampanoag tribe sued every landowner in a portion of Cape Cod, including Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. The jury found the tribe ceased to exist in the 1800's, so no damages were merited.
"You've got to consider what you are asking the court to do: to displace people who have acquired the land in good faith," said Arlinda Locklear, the attorney for New York's Oneida tribe. "That would cause economic disruption far beyond anything a Federal court has ever done, including the integration cases."
The Supreme Court has issued two pivotal rulings for the rights of Indian tribes. In 1975, the court said that all tribes, even those that the Federal Government did not recognize, like the Catawbas and the three in Maine, would be protected by the law that prevents the acquisition of Indian lands unless Congress approves.
Then in 1985, the Supreme Court ruled that the Oneidas still owned their land because the United States had never approved the transaction.
"The court applied the law as it found it," said Ms. Locklear. "But no Federal court has ever transferred a single acre of land. That may be asking too much."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gilbert Blue, the chief of the Catawba Indians, outside the recreation center on the tribal land near Rock Hill in northern South Carolina. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Carolina showing the 15-square mile Catawaba land claim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROCK HILL HERALD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROCK HILL (SC) UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; AMERICAN INDIANS; LAND USE POLICIES NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); COUNTIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TITLE INSURANCE (69%); RELIGION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN JOHN M SPRATT JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



521 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
'Sweeney Todd,' in All Its Musical Power

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

DATELINE: MILLBURN

 BODY:
TO get right to the gist, the Paper Mill Playhouse's "Sweeney Todd" is the musical thriller's most thrilling production yet -- more so than the landmark Broadway staging in 1979, more so than the acclaimed scaled-down revival 10 years later and more so than the version that entered the City Opera's repertory in 1984.
Lest it be presupposed that Stephen Sondheim's macabre masterwork is but a gory story about a crazed barber who cuts throats and whose frumpy accomplice makes meat pie of the corpses, it should be emphasized that redemptive significance is never less than a shiver away. 
 "It's man devouring man, my dear/And who are we/To deny it in here?" Todd sings pragmatically to his conspirator. "Ah, these are desperate times, Mrs. Lovett, and desperate measures must be taken," he goes on.
The desperation is everywhere, and the Beggar Woman is a recurring cry for social conscience. Todd himself, an unforgiving, unforgetting victim of injustice -- the theatrical character dates back to the 1840's; the legend, perhaps five centures before that -- represents the classic irresistible theme of revenge. A lascivious, malicious judge perpetuates old sins, and a chorus of lunatics blares "City on Fire"; their prophecy, "It's the end of the world," is a chilling cacophony, signifying moral chaos.
Unlike the emphatic original staging by Harold Prince, in which the Industrial Revolution loomed ominously while the chorus pointed fingers, implicating the audience for society's disintegration, Michael Montel's graceful production at the Paper Mill is more musical-minded and trusting of the material.
Taking its cue from Todd's introduction -- "What happened then/ Well, that's the play/And he wouldn't want us to give it away" -- the rest is played as a mystery with messages implicit, not used as assault. Bloodletting scenes are actually subtle, more suggestive than splattering, and Judge Turpin's moment of self-flagellation is deleted.
Visible technicians operating spotlights on the stage provide a Brechtian distance. Eugene Lee's lithographic setting, with factory windows and ramps, a modified version of his own overpowering ironworks Broadway design, now on loan from the City Opera, is, effectively, a balance between the gargantuan original and the intimate revival.
Luckily, the orchestra is in full bloom here, sparing us the reductive, synthesized sound of an economically compromised adaptation. One can savor the richness of an extraordinarily diverse and rapturous score. The urgency of Jonathan Tunick's orchestrations and the nonstop current of the music, masterfully conducted by Jeffrey Saver, provide a singular aural high.
While attending to the "chill of ghostly shadows everywhere," Mr. Montel's staging sustains a lyrical flow that makes this "Sweeney Todd" musically stirring, dramatically involving and altogether accessible.
The place of this piece in musical history is so assured that it may be rash to call the leading performances here definitive, but it's going to be tough to come up with a Todd and a Mrs. Lovett comparable to George Hearn and Judy Kaye.
Mr. Hearn, a replacement in the first Broadway production, has never been in firmer vocal estate. His bass tones descend to the abyss of Todd's mind. The high notes ring with triumphant vengeance. The characterization, like Sweeney's hand brandishing a razor, is complete, as much in pathology as in poignance.
Ms. Kaye's voluptuous voice taps and illuminates musical treasures. The ribaldry, seductiveness and wit of her performance appear thoroughly rooted in Mrs. Lovett's love for Todd. Since wicked comedy, in set pieces and in innuendo, is essential to such oversized characters and to the show's conception, it is important to acknowledge how Ms. Kaye and Mr. Hearn radiate such palpable joy in these roles.
One of the wonders of Mr. Sondheim's score, with its references to opera buffa, liturgical oratorio and English music hall, is the soaring lyricism in sordid contexts, a cunning blending of the beautiful and the base. Emotions are expressed by unlikely characters at perverse moments.
In a nearly catatonic state, a dependent young helper, Tobias, though hardly "the sweet child" in the guise of Robert Johanson, sings a protective "Nothing's gonna harm you/Not while I'm around" to Mrs. Lovett. Todd's passionate ode to friendship is all about his razors -- how inevitable it now seems that Mr. Sondheim went on to create "Assassins."
A songbird is crushed during a heavenly musical interlude involving the young lovers, Anthony and Johanna. And the teasing "Pretty Women" is a prelude to a killing.
Although the floating passages of "Johanna," one of Mr. Sondheim's most stunning arias, are beyond the limits of Jay Montgomery (as Anthony, the sailor), the rest of the cast is resplendent of voice, notably Rebecca Baxter's silvery Johanna and Mary Beth Peil's Beggar Woman -- for the first time, a revelation of that role's musical values. Nick Wyman's Judge Turpin must surely be "the devil incarnate," and Mr. Johanson is a mercifully restrained Tobias.
For the state's most popularly oriented theater to take on a musical so potentially off-putting is a gutsy thing. And there's a lovely irony in that "Sweeney Todd" is being produced without the excess and ostentation -- in design, in direction, in performance -- that all too often mar the theater's more mainstream, audience-winning shows.
This, then, is the Paper Mill in full artistic control. One hopes it proves a great adventure for audiences. For those who gave up dreaming of a permanent musical repertory theater, here is a production of transporting power that captures the vision on a grand scale. This is as close as you'll get. Hold on to it for four more weeks.
"Sweeney Todd," produced by the Paper Mill Playhouse, Brookside Drive in Millburn. Performances through Dec. 13. Box office: (201) 376-4343.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Hearn and Judy Kaye in "Sweeney Todd," at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn. (Gerry Goodstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SWEENEY TODD (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (MILLBURN, NJ) PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (93%); PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (MILLBURN, NJ) PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (93%); PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); PAPER MILLS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (58%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; SONDHEIM, STEPHEN STEPHEN JOSHUA SONDHEIM (72%); HAROLD SMITH 'HAL' PRINCE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



522 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: All Over State, Latin Redux

BYLINE: By JOYCE JONES

 BODY:
THE game was Simon Says, but in Mary Lou Mitchell's sixth-grade class at the Summit Middle School one recent morning, it had a different ring.
"Simon dicet caput," Mrs. Mitchell said. The students -- or most of them, at least -- touched their heads. And on the game went, through "auris," "nasus" and "dentes." 
 A few days later, in Westfield, a group of third graders were singing "10 Little Indians," led by two high school students of Latin. The numbers came out "unus," "duo," "tres."
All across the state -- in grade schools, high schools and colleges -- Latin, for decades the deadest of languages, has come alive. "The real hostility to Latin came from those who were forced to take it because of college language requirements," said Dr. Anna Benjamin of Highland Park, a retired teacher of Latin at Rutgers and the University of Missouri. Once the schools dropped the requirements, she said, high school enrollments in Latin plummeted.
In the view of Dr. Richard LaFleur, who heads the classics department at the University of Georgia, Latin was doomed in the 1970's by out-of-date textbooks and teachers who were not in tune with the new generation.
Today, at schools like Summit, teaching methods and materials are very different from those of earlier times. While declensions and conjugations must eventually be reckoned with, the sixth-grade lesson plan concentrates on reading and speaking the language and on word derivation. "In particular," Mrs. Mitchell said, "the oral component is new."
In the state's private schools, Latin has never ceased being a mainstay of the curriculum. But now it is taking off in the public schools as well.
At West Essex High School, Julia Gascoyne Fedoryk was hired this year to teach five beginning Latin classes; the language has not been offered there for six years. Parents like Janet Levitt, the mother of two teen-agers, urged the Board of Education to reintroduce it. "I didn't study Latin," she said, "but, growing up, I saw that those who did had the edge in the classroom."
Latin I enrollment doubled to 40 students this year at Lakeland Regional High School in Wanaque. At Wayne Valley High School, the Latin enrollment doubled to 20.
When Dennis Doogan, a teacher of Latin at Ridgewood High School, started there in the 1960's, there were nine Latin students in the junior high school and 30 in the high school; today there are more than 600 in the two schools.
And starting last month, 16 students from the suburban Westfield School District and 16 from the urban Plainfield School District, all fifth graders, began taking part in a joint Saturday morning Latin program financed by a grant from the state's Office of Equal Educational Opportunity. The goal is to increase the students' vocabularies and reading skills, said Mark C. Smith, the Westfield School Superintendent, as well as to help them to achieve a "greater understanding and acceptance of the diversity" found in the two school districts.
 
Teachers Hired in Rural Areas
 Holly Cook, who teaches the language at Howell High School in Farmingdale, said, "Even in the rural areas of central Jersey, additional Latin teachers have been hired at places like Lakewood and Wall High Schools."
College officials report a dramatic rise in the study of the classics, including Latin. Five years ago, Rutgers University had three students majoring in the classics; today there are 30. At Montclair State College, undergraduates minoring in classics have risen from 10 to 45, and more than 100 students are studying Latin.
The trend is also reflected in an increase in the number of requests for Latin teachers received by the New Jersey Classical Association placement service.
Dorothy Maxwell, an English teacher with a one-year contract in the Kearny school system, is among those who have spotted the new niche in the market. She has enrolled in intermediate Latin courses at Montclair State College to earn certification to teach Latin. "Teaching jobs are scarce," she said, "but there are more opportunities to be hired to teach Latin than English."
Dr. Benjamin offered this overview of Latin's ups and downs: "Sputnik brought about a renewed interest in subjects like math, physics and Latin, but then in the 1970's when courses had to be relevant to a vocation, interest in foreign language generally dropped and, in turn, Latin waned."
 
Latin Made Livelier
 The recent improvement in Latin's fortunes, Dr. LaFleur said, has come because "the four skills -- listening, speaking, reading and writing -- techniques used in other foreign language instruction, made Latin livelier in the classroom."
It was a report by Dr. LaFleur, published in the Classical Journal in 1981, that some experts say turned the tide for Latin in middle and high school curriculums. The clincher: students who studied Latin scored significantly higher than the national average on the Scholastic Aptitude Test in 1980.
And those results, he said in an interview, were not simply a result of superior students' taking Latin. Students of German, a difficult language that appeals to high achievers, scored markedly lower on the S.A.T. verbal than their counterparts in Latin, he said.
"What Dr. LaFleur documented was a major catalyst in the whole movement that ignited Latin in the state," said Laura Meierhans, the president of the New Jersey Classical Association, who teaches Latin in Westfield. "Recent studies show that if you offer Latin in elementary schools, English improves tremendously. The myth that Latin is only for the best and the brightest students has been erased because new methods of pedagogy have been introduced.
"Students start by reading Latin. They learn how the words are used in the text rather than reciting a declension which is meaningless to them. Grammar is better understood in a paragraph than over some isolated word structure."
 
Taught in Every Grade
 At the Princeton Latin Academy, which opened in 1988, Latin is taught in every grade. Christopher Marchetti, a teacher of Latin, had taught Latin in a private school in Princeton where parents continually pressed him, he said, to teach the subject to youngsters in the lower grades. At the start, 21 students were enrolled in the kindergarten to eighth-grade program; today there are 38.
Francesco Perrulli, the founder of the Princeton Latin Academy, believes that Latin changes a child's passive behavior in a classroom to that of wanting to work to learn. "Parents who were students when the study of Latin was at an ebb have come to realize that the less foreign language is taught, the less people are educated," he said. "Grammar, a participle, a gerund were regarded as irrelevant; children would learn about them by osmosis was the errant thinking. The study of Latin puts order back in our lives. What I really mean is sanity."
Dr. Timothy Renner, professor of classics and the chairman of the department of classics at Montclair State College, said Latin textbooks on a college level had changed. Where a chapter formerly began with an explanation of a grammatical point, followed by 20 sentences of disconnected ideas, the new texts are a medium of communications that deal with Roman daily life.
"Students are reading more," Dr. Renner said, "taking in a sentence as a whole rather than looking for the subject and the verb, like a biological dissection."
At Rutgers, Dr. Alden Smith, the director of the department of classics, credits the enormous interest in the classics in the last five years to the students themselves. He said: "They question: 'What was it like 2,000 years ago? How have people changed?' And the best way is to read about the culture in the Latin literature."
Mr. Doogan said that students were still reading Cicero and Virgil, but that they were relating the literature to what was happening today. "Two thousand years ago, at the time of Catiline's conspiracy when he plotted to overthrow the government, there was high inflation and people were out of jobs," he said. "Cicero railed against him in the Senate, attacking Catiline's character. My students say Cicero's oration against Catiline today would be labeled 'character assassination.' "
As students become proficient in reading the classics in Latin, Ms. Cook said, they are more likely to read the works of the ancients. "The universal themes prevail," she said. "Horace wrote, 'Carpe diem' -- 'Seize the day.' I tell my students who are concerned about S.A.T.'s and college to heed Horace's advice: 'Don't worry about the future. Take the opportunity you have today and make the most of it.' "
 
Spreading the Word About Latin
 Among the most fervent advocates of Latin are the 1,000 members of the St. Gregory Foundation for Latin Liturgy, founded in 1989 by the Rev. Peter Stravinskas, pastor of Holy Trinity Church in Newark.
The foundation's goal is to promote the tradition of the Latin rite in the Roman Catholic Mass. In 1964 Pope Paul VI and the Second Vatican Council gave permission to the clergy to substitute the spoken language for Latin.
Father Stravinskas said that in today's highly mobile society, Latin as a universal language was more important than ever. "I think people are beginning to realize that the liturgy in Latin was thrown out too hastily," he said.
"Americans are not linguists," Father Stravinskas said. "As a people they have a great resistance to learning a foreign language. Gradually, though, they are discovering what they have lost by abnegating the study of Latin: knowledge of the classics and mythology, the logical mental development that Latin brings, concepts of grammar which apply across the board, a good English vocabulary and the ability to spell correctly."
The foundation's goals are reflected in a bumper sticker it sells. The sticker reads: "Amo Missam Latinam."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LATIN LANGUAGE STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CLASSICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); 

PERSON: JONES, JOYCE MARY LOU MITCHELL (61%); RICHARD LAFLEUR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



523 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 14; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Causes Are Uniting Old Enemies

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
WHILE the Presidential candidates pitted environmental issues against jobs, a coalition of labor, industry and environmental groups maintains that Connecticut can have both.
The coalition advocates spending an estimated $6 billion on advanced sewage treatment plants that could clean up Long Island Sound. Every $1 billion spent on public works projects generates about 57,000 jobs, the group estimates. 
 "It's an opportunity to dismiss the myth that environmental protection equals loss of jobs," said David J. Miller of Greenwich, regional vice president of the Audubon Society.
But it is still a bit bewildering for people to be sitting across the table from those they have been fighting for years.
"Ten years ago I never could have envisioned this kind of cooperation," said John A. Barasso, director of operations at the Connecticut Construction Industries Association, one of the coalition members. He credited the environmental education that has been going on the last decade for bringing the two sides closer.
"Most of us in construction like to fish, like to boat, and we want clean water to drink," Mr. Barasso said. "But we also like to work. And we can do both."
 
A Pfizer Canoe Trip
 Cooperation between industry and environmental groups is becoming increasingly more common in Connecticut. For example, the Connecticut Environmental Roundtable, incorporated this year, has brought industry and environmental groups together to work on a series of projects, the first of which is aimed at making the cleanup of Superfund sites more effective. Also, an advisory panel to the State Department of Environmental Protection has brought both sides together to work on implementing the Federal Clean Air Act in Connecticut.
Last month, executives of Pfizer Corporation in Groton, a major pharmaceutical manufacturer, took a canoe trip on the Connecticut River to announce a $60,000 grant to the Nature Conservancy that will finance research on how to protect the estuary.
Pfizer's plant in Groton is the largest single source of chemicals being released into Connecticut's air and water, according to information filed under the Federal Toxic Release Inventory program, but the company has embarked on a program in which it will spend several million dollars on new programs and equipment to reduce its pollution at the Groton site.
"The manufacturing community, more and more, is on board with the environmental program," said William D. Huhn, senior corporate counsel at Pfizer.
 
'Strike a Balance'
 The executive director of the Nature Conservancy, Leslie N. Corey, in accepting the grant, did not dwell on Pfizer's past, but talked instead about the good that the money would do in understanding how to protect valuable marshland.
Mr. Corey said that while there had been some controversy among environmental groups in other states about whether to accept money from corporations, he thought that it was the only way to help the environment.
"We need to strike a balance between the needs of people and society, and the needs of the environment," Mr. Corey said. "If we are going to preserve nature, we have to find a way for humans to pursue our needs. Population is growing and the pressure is increasing all the time. But it's not too late to take the right steps."
There are natural areas that form a basis for cooperation, according to Richard A. Miller, counsel to the Connecticut Business and Industry Association's Environmental Policies Council.
For instance, Mr. Miller said, many environmentalists agree with industry on the need to streamline Connecticut's environmental permit process. That would allow the understaffed State Department of Environmental Protection to do a rapid review of applications that pose little threat to the environment, and focus more on applications that pose a significant threat.
 
How Laws Get Passed
 The General Assembly is also more likely to pass environmental laws that are recommended by both sides, Mr. Miller said, which means something gets accomplished.
"There needs to be an arm's-length alliance," Mr. Miller said. "But there does need to be an alliance."
Thomas P. McGuigan, director of development for the Nature Conservancy, said his group has long been willing to cooperate with various industries, perhaps because its focus was relatively narrow -- land preservation. But recently it has found industry more willing to cooperate with the Conservancy.
"I think there's a genuine interest in environmental issues," Mr. McGuigan said. Industry realizes that a state with clean air, clean water and beautiful land is a nice place to live, the kind of place where they can attract top-caliber employees, he said.
At first glance, it would appear the economy is driving many of the changes. Many of the environmental groups complain of memberships and donations that are declining or, at best, not increasing as they did in the boom years of the 1980's.
But both sides say it would be too simple to attribute it to just the economy.
One of the foremost reasons, most people say, is that 20 years of environmental litigation have not resulted in any significant change.
"A lot of environmental groups are beginning to realize the ineffectiveness of the adversarial relationship," Mr. Huhn of Pfizer said. "So much energy is used up on the process, very little is actually accomplished."
 
Successes Driven by Cooperation
 Karl J. Wagener, executive director of the State Council on Environmental Quality, an advisory group to other state agencies, said another reason was that there have been some notable successes that were driven by cooperation, such as when the Conservation Law Foundation worked with state utilities to develop one of the most progressive conservation programs in the country, which includes such incentives as having the utilities purchasing old, energy-wasteful appliances.
"People are tired of fighting it out in court because after so many years of small victories, what have we really done?" Mr. Wagener posed. "On the other hand, now that there have been a few real successes through collaboration, it's becoming more popular.
"If you work on one side or the other, you hate to punt even the little ones," Mr. Wagener said. "But you can't go all out on every case. You have to decide where you're going to put in the effort."
James W. DeWitt, executive director of the Connecticut Association of Metal Finishers, said that if the compromise was struck early, it would give both sides more leverage with legislators.
His group worked with the Connecticut Public Interest Research Group to develop proposals for small-business loan programs over the last couple of years: one for cleaning up contaminated sites, another to do pollution prevention programs.
"Confrontation and contention are not going to solve our major environmental problems," Mr. DeWitt said. "We have to work now on getting rid of the mistrust, which doesn't allow anything to happen."
 
Corporate Self-Interests
 Michael Stern, staff attorney for the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, said there was an element of corporate self-interest in some of the cooperative efforts. For instance, business worked closely with environmental groups on the provisions of the Clean Air Act because the businesspeople knew that more than three-quarters of Connecticut's air pollution came from cars. Among the recommendations to come out of the talks was an agreement that businesses would encourage employees to car pool or use mass transit, which would have been impossible to wring out of an adversarial relationship, he said.
"If some of the reductions in air pollution don't come from the transportation sector, they know it's going to come out of industry, where it will be hard to squeeze any more cutbacks," Mr. Stern said. "So they're willing to entertain more unorthodox solutions."
All the groups, though, know the future will hold other battles, perhaps in areas not yet known.
"We'll agree where we can, and build on it," said Mr. Miller of the Audubon Society.
"We're not naive, we know we're going to disagree in some areas as time goes by," he said. "But it's a lot more comfortable for everyone, and a lot more gets done, if we sit down and figure out what we can agree on."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (83%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); BOATING & RAFTING (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUPERFUND (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A RICHARD A MILLER (76%); LESLIE N COREY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



524 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 27; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
Hollywood Agents On the Hard Streets

BYLINE: By Anne Thompson; Anne Thompson is a Los Angeles-based writer.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
In the movie "Glengarry Glen Ross," a flashy real-estate executive played by Alec Baldwin storms into a branch office and warns four longtime employees to sell more property than their office colleagues or be fired fast.
That cutthroat, survival-of-the-fittest approach is more than just a screenplay at some of the talent and literary agencies that had long provided an oasis of stability in volatile Hollywood. Especially fat during the 1980's boom, the industry has gone on a crash diet. In the last month alone, five major agencies have consolidated into three, and 50 or so agents and their clients have abruptly found themselves among the homeless. 
 "At an agency you used to have a lifetime job," said Michael Mahern, a screenwriter ("Mobsters") who has not been directly affected by the upheaval. "If you worked your clients right, there was a reluctance to lay off. Now it's a big trauma, and it's happening all at once."
Senior agents with many years at their firms joined junior up-and-comers in being pushed out. When the 97-year-old William Morris Agency purchased 8-year-old Triad, for example, only 50 of Triad's 80 agents were picked up, and 16 of Morris's 130 agents were let go. Furthermore, Triad's and Morris's methods in putting out the Oct. 16 pink slips seem unduly harsh.
To be sure, the companies did provide free job placement services and psychiatric counseling. But at Morris, a 43-year veteran, Lee Salomon, was informed of his new status at his daughter's wedding. Triad fired one 12-year agent who had just had a baby and whose husband was out of a job.
Jeff Witjas, who had worked at Morris for 16 years, was given the bad news just after escorting a client, the singer Tanya Tucker, to the Greek Theater. At the behest of some powerful allies, he was quickly rehired. "I took a weekend vacation," he said wryly.
Mike Simpson, co-head of the Morris film division, defends the company's need to change. "When we don't clean house, we're criticized for letting people who are not front-runners remain at the company," he said. "When we do ratchet up the level of agent, then we're guilty of being hard and calloused. You can't win for losing."
Arnold Rifkin, a former Triad partner who is Morris's new worldwide motion-picture chief, is a street-wise, Armani-clad executive who could easily be played by Alec Baldwin. He has wasted no time in making his presence felt at the staid old agency. He threw Ralph Lauren sheets over the conference room chairs to give it a radical new look, and asked everyone to hold off on vacations until after the new year. He flooded the market with scripts to alert the industry to Morris's new aggressiveness and stature.
"There were painful parts of this acquisition," Mr. Rifkin acknowledged, "but a lot of people made positive life changes. They were stuck in ruts or facing dormancy."
Mr. Rifkin, said Mr. Simpson, is "inspiring the troops with a new morale in the air."
The inspiration has bitter edges. "To have given years of your life, to make a contribution and be part of something and be cut -- that's cold," said Nancy Nigrosh, an agent at the Gersh Agency, a successful boutique agency not directly involved in the shakeout. "There are a lot of homeless agents out there. We took in one agent we had always wanted. But there's no room at the inn."
The taken-in agent was Ken Neisser, until recently head of Triad's television-literary department, who learned by not having been invited to a department meeting that he wouldn't be going over to Morris.
"Morris didn't need any TV agents," Mr. Neisser said. "I made huge money for Triad. They told me I had a big future with the company, that I was one of the people they were looking to turn the company over to. They made their money. What about the people who gave their all and got left behind?"
Ron Bernstein, another Gersh agent, said that overall, his industry "isn't in dire straits. It's contracting, but not like some other businesses." As he sees it, "We've been spoiled rotten." But, he added somewhat ominously, "the real bloodletting is still to come."
The seismic agency shifts came about because International Creative Management and William Morris, eager to catch up with the mighty Creative Artists Agency, siphoned key agents and talent from Intertalent and Triad, two mid-size agencies struggling with high overheads. Bill Block, who left I.C.M. to found Intertalent four years ago, returned to I.C.M. on Oct. 23 as chief of its motion-picture division, towing 12 of his agents with him. A second Intertalent group split off and joined mid-sized United Talent. Intertalent, like Triad, is no more.
"The weak won't make it," said Jack Brodsky, a veteran producer ("King Ralph"), "People you thought were good are not making the cut because they can't be afforded anymore."
I.C.M., true to its reputation for fostering a fiercely competitive environment, has cut 7 agents and is expected to lay off more. Joanne Roberts had earned her agent stripes only one month before I.C.M. let her go. Industry insiders are most horrified, however, by the firing of a 22-year employee who has been fighting cancer, now in remission.
Jim Wiatt, president of I.C.M. said: "We have a deal to pay her salary and all her benefits until such time as somebody else takes them on. This company has never abandoned anybody."
But the criticism persists. "What's going on is brutal business," said one prominent agent. "The agencies are cutting everywhere they can cut, so they can take the writedown all at once. They don't care how much they hurt people."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOLLYWOOD (CALIF) UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGENTS (BUSINESS); INDUSTRY PROFILES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES EMPLOYMENT (91%); TALENT AGENTS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); LITERARY AGENTS (76%); WRITERS (71%); EATING DISORDERS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, ANNE ALEC BALDWIN (78%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1992



525 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Landmark For Families

BYLINE: By Daniel Patrick Moynihan; Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, is a member of the Senate Finance Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Revenue Act of 1992, which President Bush vetoed the day after the election, included a provision to begin the measurement and possibly the end of welfare dependency. This act marked the first occasion ever that Congress declared a national policy regarding children and families.
The act said, "It is the policy of the United States to strengthen families." It provided for an annual report on welfare dependency and for annual numerical goals for recipients and outlays. It established an interim goal of reducing dependency to 10 percent of families with children. (Last year's level was 13.5 percent.) 
 Over time, upward of one-third of all American children will be on welfare. In New York City, about half. Welfare dependency is the key measure of family stability. The problem of our age. Carl Zinsmeister of the American Enterprise Institute wrote: "There is a mountain of scientific evidence showing that when families disintegrate children often end up with intellectual, physical and emotional scars that persist for life . . . We talk about the drug crisis, the education crisis, and the problems of teen pregnancy and juvenile crime. But all these ills trace back predominantly to one source: broken families."
Since broken families tend to become welfare families, welfare dependency is our best indicator of our worst problem. This has been clear for a generation, but only just now have we summoned the will to face it.
In the 1930's, a quarter of the work force was unemployed. Or probably was unemployed. No one knew; we had no national statistics. In passing the Employment Act of 1946, Congress provided that we start measuring unemployment while declaring it to be "the continuing policy and responsibility of the Federal Government . . . to promote maximum employment, production and purchasing power."
This marked the acceptance of a previously disputed social responsibility. Congress also set up a Council of Economic Advisers and provided for an annual economic report.
Although there was as yet no official unemployment rate, the debate began to change. The data steadily improved and, after a point, the central dilemma and mystery of industrialization began to seem manageable.
Unemployment has hardly disappeared but neither is it ignored, much less denied. The act just vetoed made a direct comparison, asserting: "In 1990 there were on average almost twice as many households receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children payments as the number of households and individuals receiving unemployment compensation benefits."
I will introduce the bill on the first day of the new Congress. For this is likely to be the most important moment in social welfare policy since Aid for Families with Dependent Children was enacted as part of the Social Security Act of 1935.
The Family Support Act of 1988 declared that welfare dependency must not be permanent. There was to be a reciprocal responsibility to be helped off the rolls and to get off the rolls. The measure could not have passed without Bill Clinton, then chairman of the Governors Association. In his campaign, he took the next step, as did the Democratic Party. Two years and off to work. He described it in detail in his book "Putting People First," and repeatedly returned to the subject in his speeches. Now we must deliver. Put me down as anxious but willing. By 1996, we will have to create 1.5 million jobs for former recipients -- half the size of the current Federal civilian workforce.
This could be the most important domestic initiative of the Clinton Administration. Having made this promise, we had better keep it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 FAMILY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (75%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); JUVENILE CRIME (52%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



526 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: BRITON DENIES ROLE IN SALES TO IRAQ

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Faced with growing questions about his role in Britain's apparent violation of its own ban on military exports to Iraq, Prime Minister John Major denied over the weekend that he had taken part in any cover-up of the decision to sell sensitive machinery and technology to Baghdad in the late 1980's.
Mr. Major's statement was issued late Saturday in response to criticism from the political opposition based on evidence that the Government of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had knowingly helped to arm Iraq during its war with Iran and in the period leading up to the Persian Gulf war. 
 Mr. Major served in a number of posts in Mrs. Thatcher's Cabinet, including a three-month stint as Foreign Secretary in 1989.
The furor centers on the collapse of a criminal case here last week against Matrix Churchill, an Iraqi-controlled company in Britain whose top executives had been charged with violating the export ban by selling sophisticated machines tools to Baghdad. The charges were dropped after a former Government minister changed his testimony and admitted having helped ease the way for the sales.
 
Reasons for the Sale
 Government documents assembled by defense lawyers showed that officials were aware of the military applications of the items but approved their export nonetheless, as a means of helping Britain's ailing machine-tools industry and gathering intelligence on Iraq's weapons program. A top executive of Matrix Churchill, Paul Henderson, gave British intelligence officials information about Iraq's plans.
In his statement, Mr. Major said that when he was Foreign Secretary in 1989, he had not been informed by subordinates of a feud among lower-ranking officials over whether to allow exports of products with military uses to Iraq.
"I hope that even you will admit that I could not be expected to divine that which was not drawn to my attention," Mr. Major said in a letter addressed to Robin Cook, a member of Parliament who is the opposition Labor Party's spokesman on trade issues.
 
What He Knew, and When
 Since details of the Matrix Churchill case became public, the Government and Mr. Major in particular have been asked repeatedly about when they learned of the shipments and whether they had misled Parliament and the public about the Government's policy. Until recently, the Government's response was that the export ban had not been violated.
On Tuesday Mr. Major ordered an independent judicial inquiry into the sales and pledged that the Government would cooperate fully.
Today leaders of the Labor Party, citing unconfirmed information reportedly provided by a former Israeli military agent, also called on judicial investigators to determine whether a Texas-based company owned by Mark Thatcher, son of the former Prime Minister, had helped ship equipment from Britain to Iraq. Neither Mrs. Thatcher nor her son has commented on the matter.
The leader of the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, Paddy Ashdown, called for a full debate in Parliament on sales of British technology to Iraq. "At some stage, given the fact that the whole of the present Government at senior level seems to be involved in this, we cannot afford to wait longer for the answers to our questions," Mr. Ashdown said.
Mr. Cook, the Labor spokesman, said on Saturday that Mr. Major must have been fully informed of dealings with Iraq when he was Foreign Secretary and therefore must have been aware of the British shipments.
"It is just no longer possible to believe that John Major was not told that his own ministers were worried about the way Britain was arming Saddam Hussein," Mr. Cook said.
Mr. Major has not directly addressed the question of when he learned of the exports. The Sunday Times of London reported today that British intelligence officials had informed the Government as early as 1987 that Iraq was purchasing components and technology from Britain that it needed to upgrade its nuclear arms program, its Scud missile system and a planned "supergun" capable of hurling artillery shells long distances.
The dispute comes when Mr. Major is facing economic problems at home and objections to his policy of closer ties to the rest of Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: MATRIX CHURCHILL CORP CHURCHILL CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATRIX CHURCHILL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (58%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD ARMS TRADE (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAWYERS (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN) MARGARET THATCHER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



527 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Stirs Rhode Island Debate

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.

 BODY:
Gambling ventures like video poker, off-track betting and scratch-off card games are increasingly being introduced in Rhode Island as a way to supplement declining government revenues. Now officials are considering proposals to establish casino gambling in downtown Providence, angering residents and gambling opponents.
The state introduced video poker this fall in two cities, despite residents' protests and a lawsuit seeking to block it. The state lottery commission recently added several new games, and off-track betting on horse races began a year ago. 
 The idea of a casino in the capital -- alongside state government buildings, a new convention center and Brown University -- has infuriated gambling opponents already irritated by what they say was the State Legislature's failure to hold a referendum, required under state law, before allowing video poker and off-track betting.
 
Voters Have Their Say
 Voters registered their dissatisfaction on Election Day, when they elected 51 new members to the 150-seat Legislature, replacing several gambling supporters with opponents.
And a recent poll by the Public Opinion Laboratory at Brown found that 61 percent of Rhode Island voters oppose casino gambling in Providence, while 31 percent favor it and 8 percent were undecided. The telephone survey involved 516 likely voters from across the state and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
"Rhode Island already has a very serious image problem," said Darrell M. West, director of polling organization. . "It's a state that has a history of organized crime. The fear is by expanding gambling, it turns the state over to mobsters."
Howard Kay, a former City Councilman in Newport and president of Citizens Concerned About Gambling, said the state's reputation as a haven for organized crime and political corruption was a primary reason for his group's opposition.
"When you introduce organized gambling to a state which already has ethical problems, you're throwing gasoline on fire," he said. "If you introduce casino gambling, which means lots of money, it's going to have an impact on the way the state is run, managed and perceived."
But Diane Hurley, general manager of Newport Jai Alai, objected to suggestions that organized crime would infiltrate legal gambling operations.
Pointing to a row of new video poker machines in her fronton, she said, "Every dollar is accounted for," with each game monitored by a central computer. "That's not the kind of environment organized crime likes to exist in," she said.
And state Representative Paul Santilli, a Democrat from Johnston, has argued that Rhode Island was merely one of many states seeking revenue from gambling. Limiting gambling would be foolish, given potential earnings for the state, he said in arguing in favor of the video poker bill. "Let's not be the last state to jump on a good idea," he said.
 
Slow Economy
 Like much of the rest of country, Rhode Island has struggled with a slow economy, which in its case has been aggravated by a banking crisis that froze the accounts of one-third of the state's 1 million residents. The video poker bill was part of a last-minute agreement intended to close a $17 million gap in the state's $1.5 billion budget.
Members of the Providence City Council also point to revenue potential in discussing the possibility of a Los Vegas-style casino here.
James Petrosinelli, the Council's president, contends that a casino would bring jobs and income to the city without raising taxes.
"The people who are out of work are all for it," he said. "I just want to see how many jobs it would bring. Then the voters can decide whether they want it."
Mr. Petrosinelli said the Council would decide next month whether to put the question on a ballot, but he conceded that voters were unlikely to approve the proposal.
Still, he said, "We're not going to jam it down their throats like the state did with video gambling." Indeed, part of the disagreement over gambling has stemmed from a dispute over whether the State Legislature overstepped its bounds in approving video poker and off-track betting.
State law requires a referendum be held before any expansion of gambling. Those who pushed the legislation that legalized video gambling in June, argued that it was not an expansion because the games were placed in existing gambling centers, a dog-racing track in Lincoln and Ms. Hurley's fronton in Newport.
Even if the Providence proposal fails, the state could still eventually have casino gambling. The Narragansett Indians plan a casino on land in Charlestown, near the Connecticut border.
They argue that they have sovereignty over their land and are not required to submit to a state or local referendum to build a casino. But construction has been blocked while the tribe fights a lawsuit, filed by the state, seeking to make the development subject to a such a referendum. The state would not receive revenue from a casino on tribal land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (94%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RHODE ISLAND; PROVIDENCE (RI) UNITED STATES (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (94%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; REFERENDUMS GAMING (93%); CASINOS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CARD GAMES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POKER (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); JAI ALAI (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ETHICS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); LITIGATION (71%); LOTTERIES (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



528 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The New Team;
Clinton's Aides Search For Options and Offices

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 15

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton's transition team was in transition this weekend, moving from the Clinton-Gore campaign headquarters in the shell of a dead newspaper to the more modern, but empty, top floors of a half-dead skyscraper.
The White House it's not. While a guard on loan from an Arkansas maximum-security prison showed guests that if he quickly put his hand through the metal detector his metal watch would not set it off, members of Mr. Clinton's transition staff stepped around him toting cardboard boxes stuffed with files. 
 "If you find a computer that works, then just take it," growled Gene Sperling, deputy chief of Mr. Clinton's economic transition team, as he pounded away on a keyboard, oblivious to the fact that he was sitting in an entry hall.
The only transition cluster that already seems to have everything it needs is the foreign policy team, which in the center of its office has a television constantly tuned to CNN. Since CNN seems to be the medium through which President Bush got most of his news during the Persian Gulf war and the coup in the Soviet Union, Clinton foreign policy aides agree they are ready for business on the Cartesian-like principle: "I have CNN, therefore I exist."
 
Warren of Cubbyholes
 Little handwritten pink signs tacked to the walls identify the office spaces of important transition players, who find themselves in that nether world between plusher offices left behind at Harvard, a Washington law firm or corporate America and even more elegant surroundings many of them hope to inherit in the West Wing of the White House.
In the meantime, their fate is to inhabit a warren of cubbyholes and work spaces. The mood, though, is nothing if not upbeat, as the staff members seem to have retained the campaign team's attitude that if you can't take a joke you shouldn't have come.
Actually, the most important transition work is not being done in the skyscraper, but in the study of the Arkansas Governor's Mansion, where President-elect Clinton, Vice President-elect Al Gore, Hillary Clinton and a select few aides have been going over the lists of possible candidates for Cabinet posts. Those who know the names being considered don't speak, and those who speak don't know.
But one thing everyone knows and speaks is this: the best way to insure not getting a job in the Clinton Cabinet is to campaign for it, let alone ask Mr. Clinton himself. Therefore, say aides, there is remarkably little politicking, so far, for top posts.
 
Looking at Options
 The motto of the different transition policy directors, whose responsibilities are divided into subject areas like foreign policy, health and economics, is "options."
"What we're looking at are the foreign policy questions that will face the new Administration," explained Samuel R. Berger, the former Carter Administration State Department official who is heading Mr. Clinton's foreign policy transition team. "Our job is to make sure all the options for different policies are presented to the President-elect when he takes office."
Mr. Clinton has begun receiving regular written intelligence briefings from the Central Intelligence Agency, so he will be up-to-date when he moves in on Jan. 20.
Until then, Mr. Berger said he and his staff would be shuttling between Little Rock and the transition headquarters in Washington.
"We will have small teams of people who will go into the Pentagon, the State Department and National Security Council and try to get the best assessments from the career and political appointees of the status of ongoing negotiations and issues, basically what the world looks like from their perspective," Mr. Berger said.
Over in the economic cluster, Robert B. Reich, the Harvard University public policy expert, could be found on Saturday trying to locate a desk and computer to get on with his task of translating Mr. Clinton's campaign economic proposals into a detailed legislative plan.
Mr. Reich said his mandate was to help Mr. Clinton sort out the choices he would need to make to "have ready on Jan. 20 an economic package, which would be a budget for 1994 -- because that is where he can have an imprint from the beginning -- but also legislation that would begin to implement his programs."
While Mr. Clinton boasted during the Presidential campaign that he had the most detailed economic plan ever put forward by a candidate, it is still a long way from a legislative package, with numbers that add up.
One set of options, Mr. Reich said, concerns whether there should be an economic-stimulus package to jump start the economy, if need be, in January. Or should Mr. Clinton simply come forward with his plans for changing the economy, which call for upgrading manpower skills, training, infrastructure, job creation, technological development, competitiveness and productivity, but are financed from budget cuts and tax increases that would be "pay as you go" and therefore not increase the deficit.
"That depends on what the state of the economy is in January," Mr. Reich said, "but you want to make sure that you at least have the ability, come January, to do what is necessary. Governor Clinton has already said that any stimulus package must be linked to a credible commitment to reduce the deficit by an equal amount once the economy is back on track. Credibility is obviously critical."
But regardless of how the economy is performing in January, Mr. Reich said, Mr. Clinton's proposals for improving the structure of the economy would still have to be ready to go.
"The public has got to understand," Mr. Reich said, "that there are two things going on here simultaneously. One is a recession. If that recession continues in January there may be need for special action in the form of a stimulus.
"But there is a second and separate problem. Even when the American economy gets back on track, even when the recession is over, even as people get jobs, the track that we have been on over the past 15 years is not a very healthy track. It is a track of slow growth. President-elect Clinton made clear that he intends to put in place a long-term growth plan to make sure that our kids have at least as good life, if not a better life, than we do."
In the meantime, though, Mr. Reich said, as he headed off to rustle up that computer, "we still have to work out the details."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON LAW FIRM LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS US PRESIDENTS (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); POLITICS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRISONS (72%); DESERT STORM (66%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



529 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Constitutional Change Losing in Panamanian Vote

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Panamanians who cast ballots today were voting decisively against a package of constitutional changes that included one prohibiting Panama from having an army, partial returns indicated.
Leaders of those opposing the package of 59 amendments said voting trends in the referendum amounted to a blunt rejection of the Government of President Guillermo Endara, which was installed in the midst of the American invasion of 1989. 
 They called on the President to open negotiations with them, including on their demand for a convention to write a new constitution.
Mr. Endara has been widely criticized for indecisiveness and for not doing enough to reduce unemployment.
 
60 Percent Opposed
 Early this evening, with more than half the ballots counted, the vote to defeat the package of amendments was running slightly more than 60 percent. The yes vote was 34 percent, with the remaining ballots void.
There was a high absenteeism among eligible voters -- about 60 percent -- which was attributed to a lack of interest in the detailed amendments.
Visitors to polling places noted a large number of people being turned away for not being properly registered, but political leaders said those numbers were not great enough to explain the turnout.
The voters were asked to cast a single yes or no vote on the entire reform package.
The proposal on the army, had it passed, would have amounted to constitutional recognition of the de facto situation since United States forces invaded on Dec. 20, 1989, and disbanded the Panamanian Defense Force, capturing the military leader, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. General Noriega was taken to Florida for trial on Federal drug-trafficking charges. Panama now has only a police force.
The rest of the amendments, which were drafted in Parliament and supported by Mr. Endara's Government, included measures to raise minimum educational levels, improve social welfare benefits, and reorganize Parliament, the executive branch and the electoral service.
Although most of the proposed changes were viewed as technical, minor or innocuous, a broad array of groups and individuals organized to oppose them.
These included lawyers who thought that the country needed something more than adjustments to a constitution written under military control; those wanting a stronger head of government, and members of the Democratic Revolutionary Party, through which General Noriega and his predecessor, Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, ran Panama.
Although most opponents did not focus on the question of an army, some said that the possibility of organizing one in the future should be ruled out, given that Panama will assume responsibility for defense of the Panama Canal in the year 2000.
There were no immediate accusations of fraud today. Rather, election officials and some politicians suggested that the problems resulted from an effort by the election service to update registrations and eliminate the multiple voting believed to have been common over the quarter-century of military control.
In Chitre, a province capital about 100 miles southwest of Panama City, Delia Castillo Trelles, a human rights observer, said that by late morning about 20 people had been turned away from a voting center with roughly 4,000 registered voters.
She said she had heard of similar situations at other stations in the Chitre area, and Panamanian reporters in the capital also reported that a large number of people were finding no record of their being registered, at least in some neighborhoods.
"I don't know why it's happening," Ms. Castillo said, as she stood in a schoolhouse doorway. "They say they voted here in previous elections and that they haven't moved since then."
Hector H. Gallardo, director of the national-identification-card service in Chitre, said there had been a campaign in the last year to get people to check their registrations and an effort by the election service to eliminate duplication on voter rolls.
"If they're not on the list they can't vote," he said, noting that there was no appeals process.
Those who found today that they could not vote were given a form to fill out to register for the 1994 presidential election.
"Here in Panama there have always been problems with the electoral rolls," said Alberto Cigaruista, vice president of Parliament.
"Part of it is the problem of fraud that we inherited from the era of the military dictatorship," he said. "Then, there is the fact that everything is done manually, which makes both fraud and mistakes easier. And many people just won't go and update or check their registrations."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA PANAMA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CONSTITUTIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ARMIES (90%); BALLOTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MILLENNIUM (65%); POLICE FORCES (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY; ENDARA, GUILLERMO (PRES) GUILLERMO ENDARA (65%); MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



530 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Home Is a Bit Less Humble, So Fewer Leave

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Vietnamese officials and foreign diplomats stationed in Hanoi agree that the exodus of illegal emigrants is slowing because of changes in the Vietnamese economy, a growing awareness that there is no opportunity for them to resettle in other countries and the end of financial incentives to leave from the United Nations.
Few here doubt that the Vietnamese who braved the seas in unsafe boats in the mid-1970's were fleeing mostly from a fear of political persecution in a newly reunified nation. 
 But in recent years, Vietnamese officials and diplomats say, the chief motivation was financial -- a long-stagnant economy that left millions unemployed and underfed.
That is changing. Although Vietnam is still controlled by a rigidly authoritarian Government, since 1986 its leaders have championed free-market economic reforms, and the economy is now expanding at an annual rate of about 4 percent. It is expected to boom if the United States lifts its economic embargo.
"For Vietnamese this is incredible growth," said a Vietnamese official. "I do not say our Government is perfect, but our human rights situation is obviously better than in China or Burma. Surely this is the moment that Vietnamese men and women should stay in Vietnam. I think many people realize if they leave now, they will miss the boom."
The Government has tried to discourage illegal emigration by publicizing the squalid conditions that await Vietnamese who travel to Hong Kong and the virtual impossibility that the United States or any other nation will accept them as refugees.
The slowing of the exodus can be credited in part to international efforts to help Vietnamese emigrate legally, especially the program run by the United States.
Although Washington does not have diplomatic relations with Hanoi, State Department employees frequently visit to interview candidates for emigration.
So many Vietnamese enter the program that a chartered United States jumbo jet regularly visits Ho Chi Minh City, the southern capital once known as Saigon, to pick up families heading for the United States.
Last year, the United Nations ended a growing stream of so-called doublebackers, purely economic migrants who had fled Vietnam at least once before. Large numbers traveled to Hong Kong not by risky boat but safely, by bus, through southern China.
 
End of an Incentive
 The doublebackers left Vietnam a second or third time not because they had any hope of being resettled in a third country, but to take advantage of a repatriation package offered by the United Nations to Vietnamese who agreed to return home: about $400 per person, nearly double the annual per-capita income in Vietnam.
In September 1991 the United Nations, seeing the program was being abused, said it would not longer pay the repatriation fee to doublebackers.
"Without that financial incentive, the doublebackers stopped leaving," said a Western diplomat. "Simple as that. The word went out among the general population that the United Nations and the world community couldn't help them anymore. People began to realize that it was probably smarter to stay home."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (92%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (92%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; BOAT PEOPLE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



531 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: New Views on Life Spans Alter Forecasts on Elderly

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
If the Census Bureau is right, the number of people aged 85 or older will grow from 3.3 million today to 18.7 million in 2080. But if a Duke University demographer working with the National Institute on Aging is correct, the number of these oldest old in 2080 could actually be 72 million, a figure nearly four times as great as the Census Bureau's projection.
 This striking disparity involves a fundamental disagreement about the nature of aging. 
 If one assumes that little or no progress can be made in reducing the death rates of the oldest, their numbers will still grow a lot, said Dr. James Vaupel, the Duke demographer who directed research groups for the Institute on Aging. "But if you assume the death rates among the oldest old will come down, the numbers will explode."
 
Questioning Natural Limit
 The more conventional view, held by the Census Bureau, Social Security and some gerontologists, is that there is a natural limit to the human life span -- about 85 years on average -- and that that number is never going to budge very much.
But other researchers believe there is no biological limit to how long people can live. The average life span has been steadily increasing since the 1950's, they note. Because the population is generally healthier, people are entering old age in better shape than they used to, so life spans can be expected to continue to increase into the next century.
A leading advocate of this view, Dr. Vaupel, projects that by 2080 the average life span will be 94 for men and 100 for women.
If these researchers are correct, the trend will have major effects on retirement, Social Security funds and pensions.
"That's why this debate is taking place," said Dr. S. Jay Olshansky, a demographer at the University of Chicago.
 
Four Projects Supported
 The Institute on Aging has supported four research projects looking at subjects from fruit flies to Danish twins to ask which hypothesis of aging is correct. The studies, now reaching completion, are consistently failing to show any evidence for a pre-programmed limit to human life span, said Dr. Vaupel, who directed the research. He added that, in his opinion, a life span of 100 was not out of the question for people, like his 8-year-old daughter, who are alive today.
Not everyone is convinced. Dr. Olshansky, for example, said it was extremely difficult to keep increasing the human life span. Some gains were made in recent years, he said, but it becomes harder and harder to keep up the pace. In fact, he said, even to get to an average life span of 85 from today's average of 77.5, "you would have to reduce death rates by 55 percent at every age."
"That's not easy to achieve," he added.
Dr. James Fries of Stanford University comes to a similar conclusion. "Almost every curve you have -- health or economics -- is a curve of diminishing returns," he said. "It just gets harder and harder" to push out the average age of death.
But, said Dr. Richard Suzman, director of the office of demography at the National Institute on Aging, the institute's four projects argue otherwise.
 
Swedish Records Examined
 The research, which involves scientists from the United States, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, was initiated four years ago. "When we started out," Dr. Vaupel said, "I didn't hold to either hypothesis."
One project asked whether it was true, as some scientists have said, that little progress has been or can be made in reducing the death rates of people over age 85. There is little evidence to confirm or refute that belief because most countries do not publish data on death rates after age 85, Dr. Vaupel said. In the United States, it is particularly difficult to test the hypothesis because birth certificates were not required until 1933, so the oldest people whose age can be substantiated are just 59 years old.
Sweden has much better records with long-term data, going back to 1750, on population sizes and death rates at even the very oldest ages, Dr. Vaupel said. And when he and a colleague, Dr. Hans Lundstrom of Statistics Sweden, the Swedish statistics office, meticulously checked the country's records, combing over data in the archives of the Swedish national statistics office in Stockholm, they came to a surprising conclusion. The mortality rate among those over age 85 remained steady until about 1950 but has steadily dropped since then at a rate of about 2 percent a year.
The Swedish figures were "a gold-standard data set," Dr. Vaupel said. Now, Dr. Vaino Kannisto, a Finnish demographer, has gathered mortality data for the oldest old from 27 countries and finds that, like the elderly in Sweden, the oldest old elsewhere have had a steady, sustained increase in their life spans since 1950.
 
Looking at Genetics
 Another project asked whether there was a genetically preordained time of death. Or, in other words, is the old nostrum correct that the way to live to a ripe old age is to pick long-lived ancestors?
To test this hypothesis, Dr. Niels Holm, of the Odense Medical School in Denmark and director of the Danish Twin Registry, and Dr. Vaupel examined the registry, with data on 55,000 twins, identical and fraternal, born since 1870. "We could test the conjecture that identical twins will die at about the same time," Dr. Vaupel said. "It's just not true."
Dr. Vaupel added that genes do matter. Some people are genetically frail and others are genetically robust. And there is a genetic predisposition to certain causes of death. But, he said, "there is no evidence that genes dictate a maximum life span." Only 2 percent to 3 percent of the variance in ages of death in the population is explained by genetics, he said.
The remaining two projects involved insect demography. One project, by Dr. James Curtsinger of the University of Minnesota and his colleagues, used Drosophila fruit flies. The investigators looked at 10 groups of inbred flies, each group including thousands of genetically identical insects. If there was a predetermined time of death, the flies in each group should all die at about the same time. But they did not, the researchers found.
The other insect study, by Dr. James R. Carey of the University of California at Davis and his colleagues, followed more than a million Mediterranean fruit flies.
Conventional theory predicts that the older an organism gets, the more likely it is to die. If the maximum human life span were 120, for example, a person who lives to 110 might have a 95 percent chance of dying before reaching 111. If he lived to 111, he might have a 95.5 percent chance of dying before 112, and so on, until, at last if he reached 120, he will have a 100 percent chance of dying before reaching 121.
But the flies did not die according to this pattern. Instead, Dr. Carey found, the longer they lived, the greater their life expectancy. "If the same pattern held for humans, a 60-year-old, on average, would live 10 more years, but an 80-year-old on average would live 20 more years," Dr. Carey said. "As you get older, the number of years remaining to you would increase." Eventually all the flies died, but a few lived to an age equivalent to a person dying at the age of 500.
Although Dr. Suzman and others found the Mediterranean fruit fly data provocative and plausible, others were incredulous. Dr. Fries remarked, "From the scientific side, people recoil in horror," from the fruit fly data. He added that he thought there was "probably an artifact in the experiments," referring to a design error or overlooked factors.
And Dr. Olshansky said there was a difference between a genetically determined time to die and a genetic program that does not induce survival. 'It's not that we're going to die," he said. "It's that we're not going to survive. We are not programmed to survive very long past the end of our reproductive period. Our maintenance and repair programs decay fairly rapidly after age 65. Things start falling apart."
So far, said Dr. Gregory Spencer, the chief of the population project branch at the Census Bureau, the new research is not leading the agency to change the way it projects life expectancy. Both the Census Bureau and the Social Security agency assume that the future will be like the recent past and that the rather breathtaking increases in life spans that occurred in the past century will start to slow.
"We essentially project current trends to continue," Dr. Spencer said. "I don't project breakthroughs or magic bullets, all of which are possible. Although I freely admit all sorts of possible scenarios, it's hard for us to predict things that haven't shown up yet."
In making predictions, Dr. Spencer said, he calls on medical experts to help predict changes that might substantially alter life expectancies. "Interestingly enough, most people predicted the future will be like the past," he said. "It's hard to predict dramatic breakthroughs."
 
'A New Paradigm of Aging'
 Dr. Vaupel said he was confident that the findings from the four research projects supported by the National Institute on Aging had swung the balance toward the view that there is no end in sight to the ever-increasing human life span. "I think the debate is over," he said. "What's now emerging is a new paradigm of aging."
Dr. Samuel Preston, a demographer at the University of Pennsylvania, agreed. He said his own research showed one reason to expect a continued increase in life spans. He has found that improved childhood health makes differences in life spans. The healthier and better nourished children are, the longer they end up living when they grow old, he has found. Children who are alive today will enter old age much fitter than those born 80 years ago.
Dr. Kenneth Manton, another Duke demographer, said that if people continued to adopt healthy habits there would be enormous increases in the numbers of very old in the next century. Without postulating any breakthroughs or cures of dread diseases, Dr. Manton said, there will be 43 million people over age 85 in 2040.
Dr. Preston, who headed a committee convened last spring by the National Academy of Sciences to examine the widely disparate projections of the numbers of old people expected in the next century, said the group generally agreed that the Federal government's projections were too conservative.
Those who say there is no obvious cap to human life spans postulate that eventually, maybe centuries from now, people could live to be older than Methuselah. "There is not even theoretical evidence that there is a line there and we couldn't make it to 300 or 400 years old," Dr. Carey said. "There is no fixed limit to the human life span. It could be anything."

GRAPHIC: Graph shows U.S. population 85 years old and older to have been 3.3 million in 1990. Also shown are two quite divergent estimates of the U.S. population of the same age group by the year 2080. While Dr. Gregory Spencer of the Census Bureau estimates a total of 18.7 million, Dr. James Vaupel of Duke University estimates a total of 72 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU; INSTITUTE ON AGING NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU; INSTITUTE ON AGING US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; FORECASTS; AGED CENSUS (92%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (91%); ELDER HEALTH (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); AGING (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); GERONTOLOGY (78%); TRENDS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA; VAUPEL, JAMES (DR) JAMES VAUPEL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



532 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: A Vietnamese-American Becomes a Political First

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WESTMINSTER, Calif., Nov. 14

 BODY:
His motto was "Tax Fighter, Crime Fighter," he had the endorsements of the police, the Mayor and local mobile-home owners, and his campaign posters were a bold red, white and blue.
It would be hard to be more all-American than Tony Lam, described by national officials as the first Vietnamese refugee to win elective office in the United States. 
 A restaurant owner and community leader in the Vietnamese enclave here known as Little Saigon, Mr. Lam, a short, energetic man of 56 years, topped a field of six this month to win a seat on the Westminster City Council.
"I feel I am opening up the door to my children, paving the way," Mr. Lam said in an interview in his campaign office above a bustling, modern Vietnamese supermarket. "I will always be grateful. I consider this country has been our sheltering tree, and we have to pay back what has been given to us."
But Mr. Lam, who has been in this country for 17 years and is now an American citizen as well as a member of the Republican Party, insists on describing himself as "just like any other normal candidate."
As with Asian-American politicians in most places, demographics gave him little choice. Few communities in the United States include Asian constituencies large enough to support candidacies in the way that Hispanic or black communities often do.
Even here in Westminster, 30 miles south of Los Angeles, with one of the nation's largest concentrations of Vietnamese immigrants, Mr. Lam was elected primarily by non-Vietnamese voters. His winning total was about 6,500 votes in a city where only 2,000 Vietnamese-Americans are registered to vote. About one-fifth of the 80,000 residents of Westminster are Vietnamese.
Mr. Lam said he looked forward to building bridges between his Vietnamese constituents and the community at large, to seeking more bilingual police officers and more business for the impressive Vietnamese shopping malls here.
But, he says, he knows that his success on the City Council will depend on his ability to serve the needs of his main electoral constituency: non-Vietnamese voters.
Since the fall of Saigon in April 1975, the Vietnamese population of the United States has grown to about 700,000, nearly half of whom live in California.
The number of these who are American citizens and the number who are registered to vote has been growing, and this year Mr. Lam was one of the first three local Vietnamese refugees to run for political office.
One of these, Jimmy Tong Nguyen, was among Mr. Lam's opponents for the Westminster City Council seat. The other, Henry Le, was defeated in a race for a City Council seat in neighboring Santa Ana, where the population is 60 percent Hispanic.
Randy Arndt, an official at the National League of Cities in Washington, said Mr. Lam was the first Vietnamese refugee to win elective office in the United States, according to information from Asian-American groups.
Yen Do, editor of Nguoi Viet Daily News, the nation's largest Vietnamese-language newspaper, also said Mr. Lam was the first Vietnamese-American officeholder. He said a half dozen local Vietnamese were already looking ahead to running for office in 1994.
 
'A Turning Point'
 While most Vietnamese immigrants have become Republicans, Mr. Yen said this year's elections signaled the emergence of a strong Democratic wing, known as Viet Democrats. He said a considerable portion of this more liberal vote came from a growing class of educated, professional young Vietnamese-Americans.
Since the Vietnamese arrived here as refugees from a repressive Communist Government, they here have been natural constituents for the Republican Party, Mr. Yen said. But grass-roots organizing by the Democrats has made inroads, employing the message of change and economic improvement made by Bill Clinton in this year's Presidential election.
"Paralysis of Republicans in the mainstream led to paralysis among ethnic Republicans," Mr. Yen said.
As an active, can-do, American-style pragmatist, Mr. Lam is not cut from the traditional cloth of intellectual Vietnamese politicians, Mr. Yen said.
Indeed, Mr. Lam was reared in northern Vietnam with what he described as American values, fending for himself from an early age as a cowherd and singer and heeding his father's advice to work hard and not be selfish.
Fleeing south when Vietnam was partitioned in 1954, Mr. Lam said he worked his way up in business, forming construction and food-processing concerns and becoming a multimillionaire by Vietnamese standards.
 
Quickly Climbing Ladder
 Using his connections, he was able to take his wife and six children from South Vietnam on the eve of the fall of Saigon, but he lost virtually all his assets in the Communist takeover.
But Mr. Lam began building a new life from the day of his flight. He spent his first three months in Guam, helping to run a camp for his fellow refugees and, among other things, teaching youngsters to play baseball.
After reaching the United States, he said he worked for just 10 days as a service station attendant and then began another climb up the economic ladder, as a supervisor for a shipping company, insurance salesman, immigration consultant and advertising executive.
Today he owns three popular Vietnamese restaurants, where he is known for serving his customers personally.
Among the many refugee stories in America, Mr. Lam stands out as a man who has adapted and thrived. But like his fellow refugees, he is nevertheless a victim of history, and he carries a spark of anger with him over the United States' failure to fight on in Vietnam.
"I feel that we were led down the primrose path 17 years ago," he said as he sat in his office, surrounded by American flags. "I lost my assets and everything.
"But I never feel bitter. I learned to have a thick skin. And now I've got to have the courage to stand up like a man again. We've been beaten down so many times."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I consider this country has been our sheltering tree, and we have to pay back what has been given to us," said Tony Lam, who is described as the first Vietnamese refugee to win elective office in the United States. He was recently elected to the Westminster, Calif., City Council. (Gary Moss for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTMINSTER CITY COUNCIL (77%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTMINSTER CITY COUNCIL (77%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTMINSTER (CALIF) UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; VIETNAMESE-AMERICANS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOBILE HOMES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); POLITICS (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; LAM, TONY TONY LAM (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



533 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Effort Renewed in Trenton To Allow Sports Betting

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Three New Jersey lawmakers revived the battle over casino betting on sporting events with the announcement this week that they would try to put a pro-betting constitutional amendment on the ballot.
An attempt to push such an amendment died earlier this year amid strong opposition from both sports officials and political figures like United States Senator Bill Bradley, a former National Basketball Association star for the New York Knicks. 
 On Oct. 29 President Bush signed a bill banning sports wagering in most states. But the legislation gave New Jersey voters until Jan. 1, 1994, to decide whether to permit sports betting in Atlantic City casinos.
The bill also exempted Nevada, Delaware and Oregon from the ban because they already allow legal betting on sporting events.
 
Illegal Betting Cited
 Senator Bradley has argued that sports gambling would open the door to efforts by organized crime figures and others to bribe players, referees and trainers.
The sponsors of the new amendment effort say that such unsavory influences are already a threat because of widespread illegal betting on sporting events.
"We have heard estimates that between $1 billion and $2 billion goes to the criminal element because of illegal betting," said Assemblyman Robert W. Singer, the Republican majority whip, who represents a district in Burlington, Monmouth and Ocean Counties just north of Atlantic City.
"We want to put the benefits in the public coffers," he said.
 
Job Growth Promised
 Legal experts say the issue requires a constitutional amendment. Although the 1976 amendment allowing casino gambling in Atlantic city did not specifically prohibit sports betting, proponents at the time said sports betting would not be allowed.
Before an amendment is placed on the ballot, it needs approval by three-fifths of each house of the Legislature in one calendar year, or a majority in two calendar years. The governor's signature is not needed before the amendment goes to the voters.
The sponsors of the amendment along with Mr. Singer are Assemblyman Melvin Cottrell, who represents the same legislative district, and Assemblyman Joseph J. Roberts Jr., Democrat of Bellmawr, whose South Jersey district could benefit from growth at Atlantic City.
Backers of sports betting say it would add 1,000 jobs in the Atlantic City casinos and would be worth $125 million to the New Jersey economy.
But opponents say sports gambling would offer a new temptation to compulsive gamblers and threaten the integrity of both professional and college athletics.
While the precise wording of an amendment has not been worked out, supporters said it would include two specific limitations on sports betting.
Bets could not be placed by telephone; rather, anyone wishing to wager on a sports event would have to go to an Atlantic City casino. And no gambling would be allowed on college teams in New Jersey.
But betting would be permitted on professional teams like the New Jersey Nets and on any game involving a college team outside the state, including playoffs of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.
Some legislators said they opposed the ballot proposal because of that provision.
Assistant Senate Minority Leader Richard J. Codey, Democrat of West Orange, said, "I still believe it would be a serious mistake to expose college kids to the lures of shaving points even before some of them even shave their beards."
Merely eliminating New Jersey college teams from the pool, he said, was nothing more than "a cosmetic attempt to use geography as a cleansing agent."
 
N. B. A. Opposition
 "The lure of payoffs," Senator Codey said, "will be greatest for those many athletes of modest means who know they will never turn pro and may succumb to cashing in while they can."
The National Basketball Association, which strongly opposes sports betting, argues that the mere specter of criminal influence is sufficient reason to ban wagering on games.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; AMENDMENTS, CONSTITUTIONAL; REFERENDUMS; CASINOS; LAW AND LEGISLATION SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); GAMING (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CASINOS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); 

PERSON: SINGER, ROBERT W (ASSEMBLYMAN); COTTRELL, MELVIN (ASSEMBLYMAN); ROBERTS, JOSEPH J JR (ASSEMBLYMAN) GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



534 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Costs are overwhelming early-retirement programs by states that sought to relieve payroll pressure by letting public employees step down early. Rather than produce savings, the programs threaten to run up hundreds of millions of dollars in unexpected expenses. [Page A1.]
Gov. Clinton's investment-tax-credit plan is a powerful tool for giving the economy a jolt forward without dangerously expanding the budget deficit, say economists, who predict that the measure will create up to 500,000 jobs by the end of 1993. [D1.] 
 Can city employees be more productive than contractors? New York City's parks department has begun an experiment in hopes of disproving the popular theory that cities save money when they contract out municipal services. [A1.]
 
International
 Europe's rush to a unified market has led to bureaucratic rules that strike many Europeans as invasive, arbitrary or just plain silly. Take cucumbers, for example, which can be sold only if they meet certain standards for length and curvature. [D1.]
Canada will begin debating repeal of its low-cost drug policy, as Parliament takes up a little-noticed provision of the North American Free-Trade Agreement. By giving pharmaceutical companies longer patent protection, Canada would end a system that has helped keep drug prices 32 percent lower than in the U.S. [D1.]
Argentina's economic adjustment plan has hit its worst crisis since it was put into place 19 months ago and brought remarkable stability to a country famous for hyperinflation. Speculation that the country might have to devalue its currency has produced a flight from the peso and a run on the dollar. [D3.]
Baxter International is to make surgical supplies in Moscow at a plant that once produced missile components. [D8.]
The Media Business
The faithful older audience is edging out youth at ABC and NBC, which began their seasons courting young consumers but are now retreating to the Nielsen-rating dependability of Ben Matlock and Perry Mason. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
Newsweek will be published quarterly on compact disk, the first general-interest magazine to employ a computer technology that has been hampered by hardware that is sold in roughly a dozen incompatible formats. [D6.]
A new magazine will cover industry's environmental problems from a business perspective, as a group of executives and environmentalists tries to create a publication that falls between advocacy books and trade journals. [D6.]
Donna Tartt's first novel was a cause celebre long before it was a best seller. Her agent is Amanda Urban of International Creative Management, one of the most powerful literary representatives, and her publisher is Sonny Mehta, head of Alfred A. Knopf. [D6.]
Products can be marketed like political candidates, according to an ad-agency white paper, which reverses the common wisdom that modern politicians have been packaged and sold like popular consumer brands. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Fantasyland has crashed into Reality World for Euro Disney. The European company's shares have lost more than half their value since March, and now face an unusually strong sell report from an influential French investment house. Kurt Eichenwald:
Market Place. [D1.]
A new technique can produce three-dimensional images that the inventor says actually occupy space and can be viewed from any side. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [D2.]
Inflation is at its lowest sustained level since the early 70's, a record that should be good news for consumers and the bond market. But some investors seem convinced that a rebound in inflation is due. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAX (SWX) (55%); BAX (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CIVIL SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); YOUTH MARKET (73%); POLITICS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (68%); PUBLISHING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); DRUG PRICES (66%); BOOK REVIEWS (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); LITERARY AGENTS (66%); PATENTS (66%); LITERATURE (66%); DRUG POLICY (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); DEVALUATION (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



535 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: AQUEBOGUE JOURNAL;
Breeding a Leaner Duck To Survive in Lean Times

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

DATELINE: AQUEBOGUE, L.I.,

 BODY:
THE newly hatched ducklings at Douglas Corwin's farm on Long Island could well grow up to become a gourmet meal for a sheik in Saudi Arabia or a Japanese tourist in Hawaii.
Mr. Corwin, whose grandfather started the family duck business at the turn of the century, hopes that his worldwide marketing strategies will enable him to continue to breed and hatch one of Long Island's most singular products well into the next century. He is one of the few survivors in an industry that has declined precipitously on the island over the last 30 years from 70 duck farms to a precious nine. 
 And if a 336-unit condominium is built on four of those remaining farms overlooking the Terrell River in East Moriches, people will soon be replacing some 60,000 ducks, and shrinking the number of working farms to five. Plans for the condominium were recently approved by the Suffolk County Planning Commission.
Mr. Corwin's Crescent Duck Farm on Meetinghouse Creek off Flanders Bay is the largest farm left on the Island. He expects to produce almost one million ducks this year, up from 850,000 last year, and about half of all the commercial ducks raised on Long Island.
"We produce the world's finest gourmet fowl and sell it to the finest restaurants around the world," said Mr. Corwin, 34 years old and, like his father, Lloyd, 59, a graduate of Cornell University's School of Agriculture. Most of the farm's ducks are sold to restaurants.
"While our biggest market continues to be the United States, principally New England and New York, we regularly fill orders for restaurants as far away as Hawaii and Guam," he said.
And since duck is a gourmet treat for many Asians, he said, "we sell many to the Chinese community in New York City."
"If you see a duck hanging in a window in Chinatown, it's probably one of ours," he added.
Despite the dwindling number of farms on Long Island, which in the 1950's produced 80 percent of the ducklings consumed in the United States, demand has increased in the last several years, Mr. Corwin said. Long Island currently produces about 10 percent of the national market.
Urban sprawl in the 1980's caused many duck farmers to sell their acerage, farmers and officials say, with their desirable scenic waterfront views, to developers for an average $100,000 an acre. It was also a period when Suffolk County could afford to buy waterfront acreage for parkland, such as the Indian Island County Park just west of Meetinghouse Creek in Riverhead. That was because a slowdown in the economy eased the upward pressure on real-estate prices on the eastern end of Long Island.
"Our main objective was to clean up the shoreline and reduce water pollution," said Arthur Kunz, planning director for Suffolk County.
The odor from the traditional duck farm can be overwhelming to city dwellers who move to Suffolk and settle down near a farm. The picture-book setting gains a new reality when the smells of the barnyard fill the air, Mr. Kunz said.
On the land where ducks have been raised for decades, duck droppings that have accumulated near shoreline pens and in the surrounding waters are a reality. Once covered with fresh earth or sediment, the land cannot be disturbed without opening a Pandora's box of malodorous pollutants.
"Clearing the land is done with great care," Mr. Kunz said, and construction is done without disturbing the earth. Developers, as in the case of the East Moriches condominium project, he said, were barred from building marinas or any structures that would disturb the sediment in adjacent bodies of water.
Commercially raised ducks have not been permitted in rivers and bays since 1968. Under Federal and state regulations, they are restricted to lagoons, separated from main waterways.
New methods of raising ducks, developed with the help of the Cornell University Suffolk County Cooperative Extension Service, have not only helped to make duck farming more acceptable to neighbors, but have also produced a more efficient yearround operation and end products, including feathers for pillows.
"Duck farmers are producing a leaner, meatier, tastier bird," said Nils Berglund, livestock and poultry agent for the cooperative extension.
He described Crescent Farm as a "totally vertically integrated operation, from its own feed mill, to breeding superior stock and hatching, growing and marketing its birds."
While the number of farms has dropped sharply since a peak of around 70, producing six million birds annually in the 1950's, Mr. Berglund believes the remaining Long Island farms should be able to continue to hold onto their current market share of just over two million birds.

GRAPHIC: Photos: These ducks could become a gourmet meal for a sheik in Saudi Arabia or a Japanese tourist in Hawaii.; Douglas Corwin hopes his world-wide marketing strategies will keep him competitive in the business his grandfather started. (Photographs by Michael Shavel for The New York Times)
 
Map of Long Island showing location of Aquebogue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GUAM (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CRESCENT DUCK FARM (ACQUBOGUE (LI) CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CRESCENT DUCK FARM (ACQUBOGUE (LI)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY); AQUEBOGUE (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GUAM (79%); HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POULTRY; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (90%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); POULTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); COUNTIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); 

PERSON: CORWIN, DOUGLAS; MCQUISTON, JOHN T DOUGLAS CORWIN (84%); ARTHUR KUNZ (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



536 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Baxter International Plans A Joint Venture in Moscow

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DEERFIELD, Ill., Nov. 15

 BODY:
In a case of "swords into plowshares," Baxter International Inc. announced plans today to manufacture surgical equipment at a Moscow plant that once made military missile components.
Baxter agreed to make handheld instruments like vascular clamps, scissors and needle holders, said Tony L. White, Baxter's executive vice president for global businesses. 
 "This could be just the beginning of our investment in the Russian economy and people," he said.
The joint venture, called Rosoptimed, is to begin operations in June in a plant that used to make missile guidance systems and components for the Mir space station. Baxter will invest $10 million for a 75 percent stake in the venture; 25 percent will belong to NIIAP, a newly privatized manufacturing company formerly controlled by the Soviet military.
Mr. White said the need for high-quality surgical instruments in Russia was intense, with Russian producers able to supply only 30 percent of the current demand.
 
A Shortage of Expertise
 "We find that they can't produce enough now, and the instruments they do produce don't last as long as ours," he said. "There's no problem with the Russian metals -- we've lined up suppliers there who can meet our specifications -- but there isn't the manufacturing expertise. We're going to be bringing Russian managers and workers over here to train them in our techniques."
Because the Moscow plant was used for high-precision machining and has relatively modern equipment, it can easily be adapted to make surgical equipment, Mr. White said. He said that almost all the 200-person work force would be Russian, as would all the raw materials.
Baxter plans to recruit and train local residents for sales and marketing positions, a rarity for Western companies doing business in Russia.
Mr. White said the operation would be ruble-based, which means any profits could be eroded by inflation.
But that, he said, is a risk Baxter is willing to take, and the company, which had global sales of $8.92 billion in 1991, can afford to wait a long time for its return on the Moscow venture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAX (SWX) (94%); BAX (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: SURGERY AND SURGEONS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (91%); JOINT VENTURES (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SPACECRAFT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); MACHINE SHOPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPACE STATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: TONY L WHITE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



537 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Parks Workers Challenging Stereotype of Public Jobs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
George Marchese and two co-workers needed less than 90 minutes the other day to cut down and remove a dead silver maple tree in front of Teresa Mele's house in Bensonhurst. Two men would return later to remove the stump and fill the hole with soil. Before this month, as many as seven workers might have done the same job.
While it hardly mattered to Ms. Mele how many people disposed of her 50-foot eyesore, how a tree goes in Brooklyn and elsewhere in the city is vitally important to the Parks and Recreation Department, other city agencies and union workers who lost their jobs after recent cutbacks in the city budget. 
 Mr. Marchese and his crew are part of a two-month test by the department to learn whether employees given new freedoms to set their own working conditions, like planning their own routes and workloads, can improve performance and save the city money.
 
Attack on a Stereotype
 Stretched for resources in recent years, New York and other cities have increasingly used private contractors for jobs traditionally done by public employees. The theory is that private contractors are more efficient, and that cities can save money by cutting less productive or higher-paid workers from the public payroll.
But the Parks Department experiment is a bold attempt to show that the trend is flawed. If the new approach proves more efficient than outside contracting, the department could cut back on contractors and use the money to hire back some laid-off workers. At the same time, it could help break a common stereotype of public workers as lazy and inefficient.
"If we're successful, the Mayor should jump on this," said Betsy Gotbaum, the Parks and Recreation Commissioner, who designed and championed the program. "We're now reshaping how we can deliver services."
Though officials acknowledge that early totals may reflect a "gung-ho start" that workers might not sustain, Ms. Gotbaum said she was "absolutely blown apart" by the results.
Preliminary results show that for the first week, city workers in Queens cut down 51 trees, for which the contractors would have charged $10,688. The city's projected costs were $2,644, a saving of $8,044. In the Bronx, workers removed 37 trees, for a projected saving of $2,578.
City officials say warily that without guarantees that performance will stay high, the program cannot justify rehiring laid-off workers or expanding the approach to other agencies.
"There are benefits, but it's a tricky thing," said Philip R. Michael, the city's budget director. "We have to be very cautious that there is true productivity. Unless there is measurable improvement, it's not worth it."
But if the experiment succeeds, he said, the concept could be "selectively applied" to other city agencies.
The program grew directly out of citywide budget reductions two years ago, which caused most agencies to lay off workers and reduce services. At the Parks and Recreation Department, for example, a $4.8 million budget for 104 climbers and pruners like Mr. Marchese was cut to $640,000, forcing layoffs of 84 people.
 
Tree Averages 7 Years
 Climbers and pruners, who make about $33,000 a year, cut down diseased, dying or dead trees with chain saws and use wood chippers to turn them to mulch. The workers also remove the tree stumps and fill in the holes. The life expectancy for city trees is only seven years, a result of abuse from sources like dogs, car fumes, oil seepage, collisions by vehicles and insufficient drainage.
With 700,000 street trees to care for in the five boroughs, plus two million more in city parks (which are outside the scope of this test), the department faced an overwhelming backlog of work even before the budget cuts. People like Ms. Mele, with trees not in immediate danger of falling, routinely waited three years for service. The cutbacks added at least two more; some stumps have waited almost a decade to be removed.
When the budget for the 1993 fiscal year restored the parks department's allowance for climbers and pruners to $1.8 million, Ms. Gotbaum saw an opportunity to solve several problems at once. First, she persuaded Mr. Michael's office to let her split the money, using half to pay for outside contractors and half for the existing 20 climbers and pruners, plus 22 others who had lost their jobs.
Then, she devised a competition of sorts to measure the performance of the city's workers, with their new responsibilities, against two outside contractors being paid per tree, as they have been since the city began using them in 1988. To determine costs for its workers, the department established a dollar value for all parts of the job, including each worker and piece of equipment.
If the city workers show they can remove more trees, they will not only have saved money and reduced backlogs, but will also have made a case for bringing back more laid-off workers like Mr. Marchese. He and his crew were rehired when the budget was increased.
"We welcome the competition," said George Tangel of the Lewis Tree Service in Holbrook, L.I., one of the city's contractors. "We're professionals at what we do, and I feel we can do the job as fast as anybody. That's how we became low bidders for the job."
The union, meanwhile, is so eager to try to restore jobs that it agreed to waive the time-honored use of larger crews. Frank Edwards, president of the Climbers and Pruners Local 1506, said the city employed 366 people in those jobs a decade ago.
But while he hailed the greater autonomy, he questioned whether some of the smaller crews, in their eagerness to justify more jobs, might sacrifice safety measures to work faster. In more flush economic times, a crew of four or more would take down a tree; later, another crew would remove the stump, and a third would fill the hole with soil.
"When crews were five and six people, it was a lot safer," he said.
Mr. Marchese said that his crew would never jeopardize safety, saying smaller crews were more flexible. If the worker sawing branches grows tired, he can switch jobs with a co-worker feeding fallen branches into the chipper, or with the worker directing traffic out of the way.
 
Special Reason for Effort
 He acknowledged, however, that the chance that more laid-off city workers might be taken back if the program succeeds "is the only reason we're working so hard."
Motivations aside, if the experiment shows that municipal workers with more autonomy can do the job as well or better than contractors, it might shake a common perception that government cannot work as efficiently as private business.
"For almost 50 years out of the depression, the feeling was government could solve everything," said Steven Cohen, a public management expert who teaches at Columbia University. "Then Vietnam began an era of anti-government rhetoric out of Washington which said governments can't solve anything. The truth is in between. It requires a mix of public and private."
Ms. Gotbaum and her colleagues met with climbers and pruners in devising the test.
 
Planning Their Own Jobs
 In a major departure from tradition, workers in four boroughs -- Manhattan is not included in the test -- were allowed to plan their own strategies. In Brooklyn, crews of three take down the tree and remove the debris; the same crew or another later removes the stump and fills the hole. In Queens, crews of four cut down trees and deliver the branches and trunk to Sanitation Department trucks. On Staten Island, crews cut trees down and repeat the route on another day to pick up the debris.
Workers were also allowed to plot the day's schedule, another big change. Often in the past, Mr. Marchese said, crews were forced into a haphazard route because local politicians or friends of a supervisor would get preferential treatment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A test is being conducted by the Parks and Recreation Department to learn whether employees given more autonomy can improve performance and save the city money. Don Jayson worked in Hollis, Queens. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) PARKS DEPARTMENT (90%); RECREATION DEPARTMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) PARKS DEPARTMENT (90%); RECREATION DEPARTMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; PRIVATIZATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PRODUCTIVITY EMPLOYMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



538 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: Stresses of Unity -- First of two articles.;
Europe Copes With Details of Unity

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS

 BODY:
For Philips Electronics, a single European market means the Dutch company can ship compact disk players from Belgium to Spain without the need for its trucks to stop at customs. For American Express, the unified market means it can sell financial products like mutual funds throughout Europe for the first time.
But for farmers, it means new rules, including one that allows the sale of cucumbers only if they meet certain standards for length and curvature. And for other individuals, companies and nations, there is fear that old tensions and old nationalism will still, somehow, dampen the single market's positive economic effects. 
 As the European Community rushes to complete the framework for its planned single market by the end of the year, it is creating vast new economic opportunities for its industries and its 360 million citizens. "Lower costs, greater mobility, greater uniformity of standards, greater competitiveness, lower inflation, lower interest rates -- the list goes on," said Huub Elzerman, a spokesman for Philips.
But out of a bureaucracy intended to free the flow of goods, money and people across borders has sprung a bewildering set of new regulations that strike many Europeans as invasive, arbitrary or just plain silly.
Perhaps most important, as it nears the completion of the single market's legal framework before its self-imposed deadline of Dec. 31, the community faces political and economic divisions that could limit the effectiveness of its nascent free-trade zone.
All 12 nations and virtually the entire European business establishment support the single market, and many of the rules governing it have already taken effect. In many ways Europe has achieved the main goal envisioned four decades ago when France and Germany took the first steps toward a common market: creating sufficient economic interdependency that political differences would be blunted and the chances of war greatly reduced.
But the nations have yet to reconcile fully their domestic priorities, and their concerns about cooperation, with the vision of a borderless European economic powerhouse that can hold its own against North America and Asia.
Indeed, even as the single market is supposed to be drawing them closer, European nations at times seem to be moving farther apart. A feud between France and the rest of the community over trade concessions to the United States is only the latest example.
The bitter wrangling within Europe over trade followed a monetary crisis in September. In that instance, the widely divergent policies followed by each nation drastically slowed progress toward a linchpin of the common market -- a single currency -- and may have derailed that prospect entirely. And without a single currency, business executives say, Europe will never be a true single market, because investment decisions and profits will be colored by unpredictable swings in currency values.
Moreover, divisive debates in recent months in France and Britain over the Maastricht treaty on unification, following its rejection by Denmark earlier this year, laid bare the widespread distrust in many nations of the community's bureaucracy in Brussels.
In the view of many Europeans, Brussels, in the name of creating a uniform market, has developed a tendency to meddle where it has no business. Its questioning of mundane issues (Should Britain be allowed a few more weeks of daylight savings time than the Continent?) has raised fears that it will eventually swallow national identities and powers.
That distrust has led to a push for more decision-making power to be left at the national level -- a concept known, in the jargon of the European Community headquarters here, as subsidiarity. And some executives and analysts say that more authority over implementing the single market at the national level increases the likelihood that countries will backtrack on their commitment to free trade or implement single-market legislation in ways that put domestic considerations ahead of the spirit of a unified Europe.
"The business community is concerned about the achievements of the single market being fragmented by new laws at the national level," said Dirk F. Hudig, a lobbyist in Brussels for Imperial Chemical Industries. "Subsidiarity should not become an alibi for new forms of protectionism."
 
 
Most Rules Approved
 Fewer than two dozen of the 276 legal and regulatory directives proposed by Brussels when the single-market program was formally laid out in 1985 remain to be completed by the community's bureaucracy.
This month, the European Commission, the executive branch of the community, is concentrating on broad issues like standardizing drug-approval rules and imposing a uniform value-added tax, as well as on nettlesome details like which of the community's nine languages should be used in trademark-application hearings (Spain and Portugal fear the dominance of English, German and French).
By the end of the year, officials in Brussels said, at least 95 percent of the directives will be in place. They say that level will allow them to declare the single-market framework complete, even if some elements, like communitywide approval of innovative pharmaceutical products, will not be in effect for another year or two.
The 12 member nations, in turn, have translated most of the community directives into national legislation, much of which is already in effect. Officials said they hoped to move quickly to expand the common market to seven other European nations: Austria, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland and Liechtenstein.
 
Wary of Some Steps
 But some European industries, like airlines, are only in the early stages of being opened up to cross-border competition. And commission officials say they have become extremely wary of pushing into new areas -- like breaking up state-sponsored telephone monopolies, weaning industries from government subsidies and pressing nations to do more to open up government procurement to companies from other countries -- for fear of stirring up political opposition.
They said there was also a real chance that the anti-Brussels feeling would embolden some members simply to ignore community directives, especially since the European Court, the ultimate arbiter of disputes, has limited power to enforce its rulings.
"If you take stock legislatively, it's incredible what's been achieved, but we shouldn't kid ourselves that there isn't still a long way to go in implementation and enforcement terms," said Stanley Crossick, who runs the Belmont European Policy Center, a consulting firm in Brussels. "The single-market process has not yet passed beyond the point of no return."
Officials in Brussels said the building of a single market should be seen as a continuing process, not something that will end on Dec. 31. They already point to substantial accomplishments. Goods, money and people can move through Western Europe relatively, though not completely, unhindered. New regulations providing even greater freedom will take effect on Jan. 1.
 
 
Less Paperwork
 Trucks full of merchandise, for example, usually do not have to stop for customs checks at the borders of the nine nations that have agreed to eliminate most border controls on commerce (the exceptions are Britain, Ireland and Denmark).
The amount of paperwork for trade within the community has been greatly reduced. Money can be transferred between countries without restriction, although during the recent currency crisis, Spain, Portugal and Ireland temporarily reimposed some controls.
Cars that meet emissions and other technical requirements in one nation will qualify for registration in other countries. Banks will be able to set up branches in any member nation. Doctors and lawyers are to be licensed under the same regulations, but there are lingering disputes over standards for jobs like that of ski instructor.
Travelers between many countries by road and rail no longer show passports if they are citizens of community nations. Border controls, even in airports, will all but disappear after Jan. 1, except in Britain, Ireland and Denmark, which have demanded the right to continue to scrutinize arriving passengers. Travelers from the United States, once admitted by one community nation, will generally be able to travel to other nations with no more restrictions than European citizens.
For the most part, industry in Europe and from around the world has long since signed on to the single market by reorganizing to take advantage of the new ease in conducting business across borders.
"The sense of the single market is in being, even if not all the rules are in place, much less being enforced," said Keith Richardson, the secretary general of the European Round Table, a group representing 40 of Europe's largest companies. "People have adjusted the way they run their businesses."
Take the American Express Company. The laws and regulations creating a single market for financial services have only been completed by the community in the last few months.
 
 
Consolidating Management
 For years, American Express has been preparing for the changes. Instead of running its business through separate offices in each of the 12 community nations, the company has consolidated its management centers in Germany, France and Britain. Instead of processing transactions in each country, it is consolidating its back-office operations in Brighton, England.
With the end of cross-border restrictions on the sale of financial services, American Express is now able to offer the same services to customers throughout Western Europe. With the removal of capital controls, the company's money management systems have become much simpler, since it need no longer meet Italian laws, for example, that required it to keep certain funds in lira.
"We're thinking and planning and investing for a single market," said Julian P. R. Oliver, a lobbyist for American Express in Brussels.
For the most part, companies from the United States and other non-European nations say they are satisfied that the community is creating a market that is open to the world. But European and non-European companies alike say they see signs that domestic political and economic pressures within the 12 nations could lead to new barriers to open competition.
Germany, for example, recently enacted legislation intended to promote recycling. The new rules will cost many foreign brewers more than it will cost their German rivals. The legislation, which had been supported by German environmentalists, may be well motivated, foreign executives said, but it also seemed to ignore the implications for free trade.
"If that sort of thing happened throughout the market, there's the strong possibility of a fragmentation of the market," said John Russell, the manager of European Community affairs for the American Chamber of Commerce in Brussels.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trucks passed unchecked from Germany into France last month as customs formalities were reduced as part of the European Community's preparations for open borders and free trade on Jan. 1, 1993. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "On the Road to a Single Market"
 
To bring the single market into effect, each member government must enact about 170 legislative measures that bring national law into accord with other members' laws and European Community policies. Here is how far each country had progressed by the middle of August.
 
Belgium: 64.3%
Spain: 67.3
Luxembourg: 69.9%
Italy: 70.6%
Ireland: 72.5%
Britain: 73.1%
Netherlands: 75%
Greece: 75.3%
Portugal: 78.4%
Germany: 78.6%
France: 83.4%
Denmark: 89.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (84%); PHIA (AMS) (84%); PHG (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (93%); SPAIN (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); DENMARK (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (73%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (93%); SPAIN (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); DENMARK (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GREECE (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY MONETARY UNIONS (87%); CURRENCIES (86%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INFLATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



539 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: For Afro-Amerasians, Tangled Emotions

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
When Luong Hung looks in the mirror, he says, shame ripples through his body. His sad-eyed visage, his tightly curled dark hair, are daily reminders of the relationship between his Vietnamese mother, a waitress in Saigon during the war, and his father, a cargo pilot he knows only as John.
"I feel ashamed that my mother was with a black man, and now I have to carry that," said the slender 26-year-old refugee, his knees almost touching his chest as he perched atop a child-sized plastic chair in his Bronx apartment. "I wish I were a white Amerasian." 
 Luong Hung is an extreme example of the tangled emotions twisting inside these children of the Vietnam War, now young adults in the land of the fathers they will probably never know. Black or white, their lives were forged through discrimination and hardship in Vietnam where they were derided as "the dust of life."
 
Ridiculed and Beaten
 But for those whose fathers were the black foot soldiers, sailors and airmen of that turbulent era, their upbringing in Vietnam's ethnically homogeneous and patrilineal society was doubly hard -- disenfranchised for having no father at home and scorned because that absent father was black. They recall childhoods spent hidden away by fearful parents, ridiculed or shunned by neighbors and beaten by other children.
Many of them live in places like the Bronx -- one of 55 resettlement communities nationwide -- where they receive education, jobs and counseling help as they try to shake loose the memories of years of a hardscrabble existence. For the first time in their lives, many say they feel they have a chance to succeed or fail on their own merits, blending into racially mixed communities.
At the same time, refugee workers who are guiding their transition to American life fear that these young people are still suffering the after-effects of racism they endured in their early lives. Tugged among three worlds, they say, the black or Afro-Amerasians exhibit more anger, anxiety and depression, if not self-hatred, than their white cousins.
Culturally Vietnamese, politically American and physically black, they do not easily fit into any one category.
"We almost saw these kids as tri-racial but in a sense disenfranchised in every domain," said Mark Johnson, a clinical psychologist and the co-author of a study on the mental health of Afro-Amerasians. "It's difficult to find a space or cultural home for these kids."
 
Taunted by Children
 Dat Thach, 21, knows that confusion. The Afro-Amerasian who came to the United States this year said he was always perplexed by the taunts of neighborhood children in Vietnam who told him he should "go to your country" because he was black.
"I didn't know my country," he said.
Some 65,000 Amerasian refugees and their relatives have arrived in the United States since Congress passed the Amerasian Homecoming Act in 1988. The Amerasians themselves accounted for a quarter of the refugee total, with some 4,000 of them being Afro-Amerasian, said Michael Kocher, director of the Amerasian Resettlement Program at InterAction, a Washington-based coalition of resettlement and relief agencies.
Speaking in general terms, Mr. Kocher said the sons of infantrymen who once walked point in the jungle were left behind to bring up the rear of a social order that shunted them to the margins of Vietnamese life.
"It is such a homogenous society, 'ethnically pure,' that it's difficult for anyone with mixed blood," he said. "For whatever cultural reasons, they tended to be even more marginalized."
Lee, a 21-year-old Afro-Amerasian who arrived in the United States two years ago, spoke on the condition that his family's name not be used. He speaks haltingly of his childhood in Saigon, one whose themes resonate in the stories of his fellow refugees.
His mother, who had married a black serviceman, hid Lee and his sister, Linda, in the closet for months after the fall of Saigon. Later, when she sent him to school, he said, he was teased relentlessly and often arrested by the police, who he said tried to coerce confessions from him for crimes he did not commit.
The ultimate indignity came in the fifth grade, when his classmates pounced on him, pummeling him until half his face was swollen. When his mother confronted the school's principal, he told her to stop sending her son to school because he could do nothing to prevent the beatings.
 
Feeling Some Kinship
 Lee and his family came to the United States in 1990, settling into an apartment in the Kingsbridge Heights section of the Bronx. He attends Martin Luther King High School in Manhattan, where he said his black classmates have welcomed him. He said he did not know much about black culture, although he said he intended to read more about it once his command of English improved. Nonetheless, he feels some kinship to his classmates.
"At the beginning I was surprised to see so many people with the same color skin as me," he said. "That makes me feel surprised and comfortable. I belong to this society."
His mother says, perhaps only partly in jest, that he now wants to forget the part of him that is Vietnamese. He listens grim-faced, slumped in a chair.
"Forget," he said, slowly shaking his head. "I don't want to remember."
The relief many feel for no longer being hounded because of their skin color can be supplanted by urgent economic concerns. Several refugee experts said the Afro-Amerasians were often denied access to education because of their color, arriving in this country with only a few years of formal schooling, if any. Now, many worry about catching up, enrolling in high school at an age when other teen-agers have graduated.
Others fret about finding work with little English and few marketable skills at a time when jobs are scarce for many in their neighborhoods.
 
Needing Federal Help
 "When I first got here my face was always angry," said Minh Nguyen, 21, who arrived in the Bronx last year and now is studying English and other subjects at St. Rita's Asian Center. "The language was difficult and this is a big country. I didn't know where to look for work. I don't know what is out there in the future."
There is a sense that time is limited, a sentiment shared by refugee workers who said that because the Amerasians were older, they should be eligible for more assistance from Government social-service programs. They said it was more critical for the Afro-Amerasians, given their frequent lack of education.
While some of the youths have black friends, their tightest bonds often seem to be with other Amerasians. They refer to living life "in the middle," identifying themselves as Amerasian.
Their blackness, the focal point of their abuse in Vietnam, is something that is either played down or avoided here. Mr. Hung said all he knew about black Americans came from a movie about the antebellum South he saw in his youth.
"I heard in Vietnam that black poeple were slaves," he said. "I didn't want to be a slave."
He still may be hostage to his decidedly derogatory view of black Americans, fearfully associating them with crime and homelessness. When asked if his time here has helped persuade him otherwise, he nodded affirmatively.
"Of course it changed," he said. "In the United States there is freedom. I don't have to live in the black community."
Although Mr. Hung said he felt more comfortable in New York, not all of his countrymen have been accepting. "Vietnamese here, especially the higher-educated Vietnamese, do not allow their children to make friends with black Amerasians like me," he said.
Psychologists and others who have looked into the experiences of Amerasian refugees said the lasting effects of the young people's difficult years in their homeland were unclear.
A continuing study that has tracked Amerasian refugees along their journey from Vietnam, through Philippine refugee camps and in the United States, found the Afro-Amerasians to be slightly more anxious and depressed than their white counterparts, but the difference was not statistically significant.
 
View Through Prism
 Dr. Robert McKelvey, the study's co-author and the head of the department of child psychiatry at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, said his impression remains that the Afro-Amerasians were having a harder time in the United States.
In terms of their self-image, Dr. McKelvey found that many of these young people consider themselves more Vietnamese than their appearance would suggest. But American society, whose own issues of color have never been resolved, views them through its own racial prism, said Carolyn Tisdale, the director of refugee resettlement programs for Catholic Charities in Memphis.
"I see them as black," said Ms. Tisdale, who herself is black. "I know that's what everyone else is going to see. Realistically, that is what they are going to have to deal with."
Unfortunately, she said, the Afro-Amerasians she has encountered in her work arrived in this country with negative racial stereotypes about blacks. "You get a lot of self-hatred," she said.
Some groups have tried to help the Afro-Amerasians better understand their black heritage by incorporating lessons or literature about black history into the school curricula. Sister Jean Marshall of St. Rita's Asian Center said her group hoped to enlist the aid of black military veterans and others to serve as mentors, to help bolster their fragile self-confidence.
"Their self-esteem is so low," she said. "Getting them to realize they can make it is very hard."
Ms. Tisdale and several others in refugee work said they thought that not enough black Americans have reached out to the Afro-Amerasian youths. Part of the problem, some said, was that the resettlement agencies themselves had not done a good enough job of reaching out to blacks.
A little more than two years after arriving here, Lee and his sister, Linda, 20, seem to be adjusting well. He is in 10th grade and talks about going to college. Linda unschooled in Vietnam, is enrolled in English as a Second Language classes at St. Rita's. She says she wants to be a model.
Part of the reason for their relatively smooth adjustment lies in the efforts of their mother, who hired a tutor for her children after Lee was beaten in school in Saigon.
Also helpful is the warm embrace of their father's family, which also lives in the Bronx. Their father is remarried and lives in the Virgin Islands, where the children visit him in the summer. Florence Hendricks, their grandmother, smiles broadly when she talks about how her grandchildren call her almost every day and how the family welcomed the children into their fold during a recent reunion.
Mrs. Hendricks recalls with a smile her excitement when she first met her grandchildren, a few days after they arrived in this country. "I wanted to see what they looked like,' she said.
And what did she think when she finally saw them?
"I love them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I feel ashamed that my mother was with a black man, and now I have to carry that," said Luong Hung, right, whose mother is Vietnamese and whose father was a cargo pilot during the Vietnam War. "I wish I were a white Amerasian." (pg. B1); Many black Amerasians have settled in places like the Bronx -- one of 55 resettlement communities nationwide -- where they receive education, jobs and counseling help. Hang Thach, Dat Thatch and and Hong Le attended English classes at St. Rita's Asian Center last week on Andrews Avenue.; Linda, right, a black Amerasian, walking with her mother, Thanh, left, and her paternal grandmother, Florence Hendricks, in Chinatown. Linda's father, a former serviceman, is remarried and lives in the Virgin Islands, where Linda and her brother, Lee, visit him in the summer. (pg. B2) (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); BLACKS (NON-US); VIETNAMESE-AMERICANS; VIETNAM WAR; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES CHILDREN (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REFUGEES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); DEPRESSION (61%); RESEARCH REPORTS (61%); MENTAL ILLNESS (61%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID LUONG HUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



540 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Canadians See Rise in Drug Costs

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Canada's Parliament will open debate this week on the repeal of a law that has kept prices for prescription drugs far lower than prices in the United States. The repeal is required by a little-noticed provision of the North American Free Trade Agreement initialed by the United States, Canada and Mexico last month.
The law currently limits patent protection on drugs to 7 to 10 years, and its repeal would bring Canadian patent protection in line with that of the United States and other industrialized countries, which allow drug companies to produce a drug exclusively for 17 to 20 years. After the patent expires, competitors are able to make and sell generic copies of the drug, and such competition can sharply reduce prices. 
 Canada's success at delivering drugs at costs lower than those in the United States is an important feature of its medical system, which has been a model for many health policy experts seeking to contain soaring costs in the United States. Medical costs are about 28 percent lower per capita in Canada than in the United States, although spending on health care has been rising there, too.
 
Approval Is Expected
 The repeal of the patent law, formally requested by Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, is expected to pass the Conservative-dominated Parliament before next year's Canadian election, although Liberal and New Democrat Party opponents hope to attract enough disaffected members of Mr. Mulroney's majority to delay passage until after the election.
The shorter period of patent protection has helped keep prices of drugs 32 percent lower in Canada, on average, than in the United States, the General Accounting Office of Congress found in a recent study for a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee.
Strong opposition to changing the Canadian law is being voiced by advocates for the elderly, labor unions and health ministers of Canada's provinces. "The drug industry is making complete monkeys out of Canadians," said Angus Ricker, a health-care researcher in Ottawa for the opposition New Democrat Party.
In the United States, Canada's health-care system has been heavily criticized by drug companies, insurers and others with a stake in the American medical system.
The American drug makers say the high prices of many new drugs are necessary to finance the often risky investments in innovative drugs that may take a decade, and $200 million each, to develop. The drug makers have also promised to increase their research efforts in Canada once the patent law is changed.
The trade agreement requires Canada and Mexico to follow the United States' lead and allow exclusive marketing rights for drugs for as long as 20 years. The change is expected to cost Canadians about $400 million annually, a 12 percent increase in spending on drugs, pharmaceutical economists on both sides of the border say. The added cost would grow to about $800 million by the late 1990's, these experts say.
Canadian Government officials insist the added cost would be far less. They said their estimates were based on conservative assumptions about when specific drugs would be open to generic competition.
 
Burden for Canadian Health Plan
 Roughly half the cost of medicine used by Canada's 26 million people is paid for by Government health plans administered by the provinces, which provide medicine for the poor and elderly. Private insurance and individuals pay for the other half.
Extending the patent life of drugs is likely to cost consumers immediately and also add to the burden on the Government health plans, which are already under economic pressure.
Compared with hospital and doctors' bills, prescription drugs are a relatively small, though rapidly growing, expense.
But drug costs are a heavy burden for people with limited incomes and for people with chronic illnesses like cancer and AIDS. For most Americans over age 65, prescription drugs are an out-of-pocket expense because Medicare does not pay for prescriptions. President-elect Bill Clinton said during the Presidential campaign that he wanted to place limits on prescription drug prices.
 
Industry Lobbyists Credited
 For at least 10 years, American drug companies have lobbied hard for extending United States rules on patents to the country's trading partners, and they have pushed hard for similar rules in the proposed worldwide trade agreement being negotiated under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
The North American agreement is widely expected to serve as a model for future pacts with Latin America and other regions.
Putting the patent provisions in the North American accord was "a master stroke," said Edgar G. Davis, a former vice president of Eli Lilly & Company, who is now at the Kennedy Center for Business and Government at Harvard University. "It shows what an industry that has its act together can accomplish."
The Bush Administration had made eliminating the Canadian law a condition for concluding the trade agreement, which Canada hopes will bring increased American investment and economic growth.
Jacques Lapointe, chairman of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers of Canada and chief executive of the Canadian unit of Glaxo Holdings, which is based in Britain, said the proposed GATT text and the North American Free Trade Agreement were "attempting to bring Canada into line with international rules on the protections of intellectual property."
But Senator David Pryor, the Arkansas Democrat who heads the Senate Committee on Aging, asked, "Are we slitting our own throats by limiting our options to contain drug costs?"
Representative Henry A. Waxman, the Democrat from California who is chairman of a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health, said American consumers "are subsidizing the lower prices that Canadians and Europeans pay for pharmaceuticals." Mr. Waxman, who requested the G.A.O. study of American and Canadian prices, said the disparity was "another reason why we need a national health insurance system to get some control over the cost of health care."
 
Remaking Canada's Drug Policy
 Doing away with compulsory licensing would, for example, give Merck & Company 13 more years of Canadian patent protection for Vasotec, a heart drug that is one of the company's largest-selling products. Canadian sales of Vasotec exceed $100 million a year, industry executives say.
The Mulroney Government proposes to ease the effects of losing compulsory licensing by giving enforcement power to a federal board that reviews drug prices. The board would impose fines and jail sentences on violators of its price guidelines. But the proposal raises legal problems under Canada's Constitution, under which the provinces regulate business.
Canadian health officials are also discussing a plan to strengthen the provinces' clout as drug purchasers for the poor and elderly, drafting a proposal for a centralized "national formulary service" that would publish information on the medical benefits and cost-effectiveness of competing drugs. Formularies are lists of approved drugs compiled by insurers and other large buyers. To win a place on the approved list, drug makers often must reduce their prices.
Gerald J. Mossinghoff, president of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association in Washington, said his members would like to eliminate Canada's Government price controls. The American drug makers also oppose drug formularies, which are increasingly cutting into drug profits in the United States as well as Canada.
"Formularies, by definition, keep drugs away from patients," Mr. Mossinghoff said.
The drug makers reported about $41 billion in American sales of patent-protected products last year. Generic drug sales added about $5 billion. Drug prices, which rose twice as fast as general inflation in the 1980's, have slowed somewhat, the Labor Department said. But drug prices paid by consumers still rose 6.3 percent in the 12 months ending in October, while the overall Consumer Price Index was up only 3.2 percent.
And despite pledges to restrain increases by several large American companies, factory prices to wholesalers and other large buyers rose 5.4 percent in October, compared with only 1.7 percent growth in the general Producer Price Index for manufactured goods.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Pricier on This Side of the Border"
 
The most frequently prescribed drugs, and the amount by which the factory price charged for them in the United States exceeded what was charged in Canada, in U.S. dollar terms, on May 1, 1992.

			Price premium in	Drug	Maker	Use	United States	Amoxil	SmithKline Beecham	Antibiotic	+5%	Lanaxin	Burroughs Wellcome	Heart Failure	+16%	Zantac	Glaxo	Ulcers	+30%	Premarin	American Home Products	Hormone	+162%	Xanax	Upjohn	Anxiety	+183%	
 
(Source: General Accounting Office) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMMD (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS HOLDINGS INC (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; PRICES; LAW AND LEGISLATION DRUG PRICES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PATENTS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); APPROVALS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); INSURANCE (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



541 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Economists Back Clinton On Investment Tax Credits

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
The investment tax credit proposed by President-elect Bill Clinton is probably the single most powerful tool for giving the economy a jolt forward without dangerously expanding the budget deficit, economists agree.
Several economic forecasters interviewed said Mr. Clinton's investment tax credit, probably limited to purchases of equipment, would create 300,000 to 500,000 additional jobs by the end of 1993 while increasing the deficit by just $500 million. 
 "Investment tax credits probably provide more short-term stimulus than any other changes on the spending side or tax side," said William A. Niskanen, president of the Cato Institute and a member of President Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers.
While economists agree that investment tax credits are a potent tool, not everyone agrees that they are needed now with the economy finally showing some signs of picking up. But with economic growth weak for the last three years, Mr. Clinton seems intent on stepping on the accelerator, if only in part to make sure the economy does not stall again.
Most of the jobs created by an investment tax credit would be in companies that produce equipment like computers, trucks or metal-working machinery, economists said. Only a fraction would probably occur in companies buying equipment, since much of that equipment would replace workers. Though this would penalize some workers, the tax credit is intended to create a wealthier nation over all by increasing investment, growth and productivity.
Mr. Clinton is seeking a marginal or incremental tax credit, meaning companies will receive a tax credit only on investments above a certain base level. If the tax credit was 10 percent, a number some Clinton advisers have suggested, a company that invests $1 million in equipment above its base level, for example, would receive a $100,000 credit.
 
Looking at 80%
 Although no final decision has been made about what the base level of investment would be, Mr. Clinton's advisers suggested during the campaign that the credit might be available on equipment purchases that exceed 80 percent of a company's 1992 levels. So if a corporation spent $1 million on equipment in 1992, a tax credit would be calculated on amounts it spent in 1993 that exceeded $800,000.
This marginal approach is intended to minimize a problem with the investment tax credits used by every President from John F. Kennedy to Ronald Reagan. These credits provided a windfall of billions of dollars for investments that would have been made even without a tax credit.
"In many ways a marginal tax credit is an ideal policy because the Government will leverage private-sector investment," said Gene B. Sperling, who was economic issues coordinator in the Clinton campaign and is now deputy director of the President-elect's economic transition team. "It has the attractive aspect of not increasing the deficit while providing significant stimulus to the economy."
The investment tax credit was repealed by the 1986 tax bill after many economists argued that it improperly distorted investment decisions in favor of areas where the credit was available. The idea behind the repeal was that corporations should make investment decisions according to market forces, not tax incentives.
Nonetheless, President Bush proposed an investment tax credit as part of his economic package last January, which aimed to stimulate the weak economy. That credit was never enacted into law, however, because Mr. Bush ultimately vetoed the package after Congress inserted some tax increases into it.
 
The Cost in Revenue
 Past investment tax credits have generally cost the Government about one dollar in forgone tax revenues for each dollar of investment generated. Mr. Clinton's advisers say they are confident that their marginal credit will spur several dollars of investment for each dollar of Federal revenue forgone.
DRI/McGraw Hill, a consulting firm in Lexington, Mass., estimates that a marginal tax credit that costs the Government $4 billion next year would bring an additional $20 billion in investment.
David Wyss, DRI's chief financial economist, said such a credit would create 300,000 jobs in capital goods industries next year and 200,000 additional jobs indirectly. These would be in trucking companies, software companies, restaurants or other corporations that sell goods or services to equipment manufacturers or their employees.
Laurence H. Meyer & Associates, the St. Louis consulting firm, estimates that a 10 percent marginal credit would cost the Government $3.1 billion in foregone revenues in fiscal 1993 while producing about $22 billion in extra investment. The firm says the investment incentive will increase growth and incomes by so much that the deficit will increase by just $500 million next year. But because most companies would act immediately to take advantage of the new credit, Meyer sees a far smaller stimulus in 1994, with the credit expected to produce just $4 billion in extra investment.
 
New Analysis Issued
 The firm, which was commissioned by the Clinton campaign to do a pre-election study of the tax credit, has issued a new analysis since the election showing lower job gains than originally estimated. Initially basing its computations on the assumption of a tax credit for equipment purchases exceeding 80 percent of a company's 1992 levels, the firm at first concluded that the credit would produce 500,000 additional jobs in 1993 and add seven-tenths of 1 percent to the gross domestic product.
The new study predicts the credit will create only 300,000 extra jobs and a five-tenths of 1 percent increase in output. The firm made the downward revisions, its economists said, because they had originally underestimated how much would be spent on imported equipment.
The Clinton plan could face numerous hurdles in Congress. For one, business groups are signaling that they will lobby for a tax credit on all equipment purchases rather on just incremental investments.
And some people dislike a marginal tax credit because it would seem to penalize businesses that bravely increased investment despite the 1990-91 recession.
"There is no reason to favor firms whose relative past investment has been low, rather than those whose recent investment has been high," said Barry Bosworth, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and an economic official in the Carter Administration.
 
Work at Harvard
 Mr. Clinton's push for a tax credit on equipment investment seems in part inspired by the work of Lawrence H. Summers, a Harvard professor who many say is on the short list to be chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. Research by Mr. Summers and his Harvard colleague, Bradford Delong, shows that machinery investments have huge returns -- not just to corporations but to all of society. Such investment, they argue, helps spread new technologies and pushes companies to improve their workers' skills.
Mr. Summers said in an interview, "A dollar of equipment investment does more for economic growth than a dollar invested in office buildings, shopping centers or housing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CATO INSTITUTE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; LABOR; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



542 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Taming Inflation, and Its Impact

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
When inflation in the United States is out of control, as it was in the 1970's and early 80's, it is the talk of the land and topples Presidents. When it is under control people just don't seem to notice it.
Well, for the record, inflation in the United States should dip this year to its lowest sustained level since the beginning of the 1970's. 
 This is not a flash in the pan. The data would cover the 10-year period through the end of 1992. If the Consumer Price Index for the United States rises only 3 percent this year -- and it is moving at that pace right now -- prices will have risen just 3.8 percent a year on average in the last decade. That would be the slowest 10 years' worth of inflation since the same 3.8 percent in the period that ended in 1973.
There has not been a 10-year period in which consumer prices rose at an average annual rate of less than 3 percent since 1961 to 1970, when the average was 2.77 percent.
 
Trend Among Industrial Nations
 America's industrial allies have seen similarly tame inflation, from Britain and Germany to Australia and New Zealand. Inflation in the 23 most industrialized countries could average 3.9 percent a year for the last decade, according to International Monetary Fund data. That would be the lowest level for the group since the 3.82 percent figure for the 10 years that ended in 1972.
This should be good news for the consumer and the bond market although there has been quite a cost for this success. In the United States it was the steep recessions of 1980 and 1981 and, later, the four years of either minimal growth or recession since 1988 that undermined President Bush's chances for re-election.
But low inflation has its benefits, one of the most important being the opportunity for a longer period of sustained growth in the economy.
There are numerous signs of continued moderate inflation in the United States. Despite the somewhat surprising rise of four-tenths of one percent in the Consumer Price Index for October, reported Friday, several analysts said they were not worried, in part because one-time factors, like increases in airline fares, contributed to the overall jump.
 
Inflation Scenario Discounted
 Closely watched inflation monitors, like the Commodity Research Bureau's index, are declining. What ismore, both the recent rise of the dollar, which makes imports less expensive, and slow growth in Europe, which cuts demand for American products, should both help restrain inflationary pressures.
"There is just no inflation scenario," said Rudiger Dornbusch, professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "You need 3.5 percent growth for three or four years to get a crunch."
Still, it seems that traders and investors in the bond market, which is ultrasensitive to price movements, have yet to believe the inflation story.
Some analysts contend that long-term rates, given the recent inflation performance, should be lower than the 7.57 percent yield on Friday on the new 30-year bond. This belief was the basis for many of the projections, now generally abandoned, that long-term rates would soon fall below 7 percent.
"I still don't believe that most bond investors believe we are looking at a major structural break in inflation," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at C. J. Lawrence. "I think the bond market is still very concerned about a rebound in inflation."
Others believe that in the next year the story on low inflation will finally sink in and bring down bond yields. Mr. Yardeni said the inflation downdraft could pull rates on the long bond close to 6 percent. Others are more conservative, projecting a fall to around 7.25 or 7 percent.
But there are others who think that much of the inflation story is reflected in the market already, which means that other factors -- like the performance of the Clinton Administration -- will have more impact on the future course of bond yields.
"I don't think that the bond market is misinterpreting the inflation facts," said Richard B. Hoey, chief economist at the Dreyfus Corporation. What worries the market, he said, is not an expected rise in inflation in the near term but the "uncertainty about the economic policy of the Clinton Administration."
"The difference between the bulls and the bears," he said, "is not about what inflation will be in 1993, but about what economic policy will be in 1993, 1994 and 1995. There is a fear we won't deal with the deficit."
 
'Crowding Out' Feared More
 John Lipsky, the chief economist at Salomon Brothers, said the concern in the market now is not inflation but of "crowding out," a term that became popular early in the Reagan Administration. It is the worry that with a rising Federal budget deficit the borrowing demands of the Treasury will "crowd out" the private-sector demand for borrowing. And this, the theory goes, will lead to higher interest rates.
Nancy J. Kimelman, chief economist at Technical Data in Boston, takes a different view. She says investors and traders are already correctly interpreting a Clinton Presidency. The current interest rate on the 30-year bond, she said, assumes that inflation will rise under Mr. Clinton.
"I am not sure that the market is wrong in assessing that Clinton will mean higher bond yields than Bush," she said. Mr. Clinton, she said, wants to get the economy growing to create more jobs. And this, she acknowledged, will probably mean higher inflation.
"The bond market knows that sluggish growth, no real improvement in incomes, and austerity are not the American way," she said. "And everyone knew that the deficit was at a record level, and they still elected Bill Clinton."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (74%); GERMANY (74%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (74%); GERMANY (74%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); TRENDS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BONDS (73%); AIR FARES (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



543 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 6; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Panel On Arts May Be Revived

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
As plans take shape for revamping Federal support of the arts under the Clinton Administration, some of those on the transition team or close to it say President-elect Bill Clinton may revive the dormant Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities and name its chairman even before selecting a new head for the National Endowment for the Arts.
Theodore W. Striggles, a former executive director of the New York Council on the Arts who has advised the Clinton campaign on arts policy, said on Friday that while it was obvious that economy-related and cabinet-level jobs must be filled first, the relatively prompt appointment of a new Federal council chairman "could solve two problems at once." 
 He was alluding to the fact that the arts endowment must have its life extended by Congress next year. The issue is unlikely to bring about the end of the endowment, but it is almost guaranteed to renew debate on whether Congress should impose content restrictions on federally financed projects. Even if the new President names a chairman for the endowment as soon as February, there is little chance that the appointee could pass a routine security clearance as well as Congressional confirmation in time to guide the debate on reauthorization.
 
'Would Not Have Been Bloodied'
 "It might be best," Mr. Striggles said, "for the new President to first appoint a chairman of the Federal council, which he can do by executive order, and then have that person guide the debate. Furthermore, when the new endowment chairman takes over, his hands would not have been bloodied by the reauthorization battle."
George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's assistant director for communications, said last week from Little Rock, Ark., that the transition team would establish "cluster groups" within 10 days and that one of them would begin to deal with the arts and humanities. He acknowledged that Deborah Sale "or someone like that" would head the arts-cluster group.
Ms. Sale, who represented Mr. Clinton at the annual meeting of the National Assembly of State Arts Agencies in Chicago on Saturday, has been a friend of Mr. Clinton's since their high school days in Little Rock. Before joining the Clinton campaign staff as a senior adviser, she was the campaign manager and chief of staff to Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine of New York. She is married to Mr. Striggles.
Although Ms. Sale has been mentioned as a possible future chairwoman of the arts endowment, some close to the Clinton organization said they believed that she would be even more highly placed in the new administration.
 
After 'Joan of Arts'
 They also said they were attracted to the idea of reviving the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities as a means of broadening the base of the arts throughout the Federal Government. The Federal council was used for this purpose during the Jimmy Carter Administration by Joan Mondale, the wife of Vice President Walter Mondale, who was frequently referred to as "Joan of Arts."
Others on the transition team or close to it, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Clinton's arts policy would focus on arts education and making the arts more generally available to the population, a stand likely to rekindle the populism-versus-elitism debate that hounded the cultural leaders of the Carter Administration.
The policy of the Clinton Administration toward National Endowment for the Arts grants, which are often heatedly debated, is likely to be carefully measured. Although no one close to the President-elect was willing to discuss the subject in detail, Bruce Reed, a top campaign aide who was named a deputy of the transition team on Friday, stated in April during the New York primary that a Clinton Administration "would never allow outside pressure to infringe the basic freedom of artists."
 
'One of the Toughest Issues'
 But Mr. Reed conceded that finding a way to protect the rights of both artists and a public that finds some art deeply offensive is "one of the toughest issues we face today."
The implication of Mr. Reed's statements is that although the Clinton Administration would go far to show itself as a friend of artists, it would not approve Federal grants to support exhibitions of the most provocative work of artists like Andres Serrano and Robert Mapplethorpe, which proved incendiary in 1989.
Mrs. Mondale casts a long shadow among the President-elect's most highly regarded arts advisers. Two of them -- Beverly Lindsey and Ms. Sale -- worked for her during the Carter years and say they were influenced by her activities.
Mrs. Lindsey was the executive director of the Arkansas Arts Council from 1987 to 1990 and remains close to Mr. Clinton. Her husband, Bruce Lindsey, served as a chief traveling adviser to Mr. Clinton in the Presidential campaign.
 
From Active to Nearly Moribund
 The Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities was created in 1965 to coordinate the activities of the arts and humanities endowments with those of other Federal programs. Livingston Biddle, who helped write the legislation that created the Federal Council and was appointed the chairman of the arts endowment by President Jimmy Carter, suggested to Mrs. Mondale that she could make effective use of the council.
At first, Mrs. Mondale worked with the Department of Transportation to convert rarely used railroad stations into small cultural centers. Eventually, and largely as a result of Mrs. Mondale's efforts, the Department of Labor became the largest employer of artists in the nation.
The Federal council became nearly moribund during the Reagan and Bush Administrations, but the idea of supporting artists and arts projects by means other than direct financial awards by arts agencies was picked up in Arkansas, among other places.
Mrs. Lindsey said Governor Clinton's expansion of an annual blues festival in Helena, Ark., which was supported by the state arts council, into a broadly supported, multi-disciplinary arts festival operated by the Delta Cultural Center, was inspired by the work of the Federal council. The Delta Cultural Center, based in a restored Union Pacific railroad depot in Helena, receives a trickle of financial assistance from the state arts council and the National Endowment for the Arts, but 95 percent of its money comes from a state grant to its parent agency, the Department of Arkansas Heritage.
 
From a Real Estate Tax
 Another example of Mr. Clinton's interest in seeking means outside arts grant-making agencies to support artists and arts projects, Ms. Lindsey said, is the Arkansas Natural and Cultural Resources Council, a state grant-making body Governor Clinton pressed for in 1987.
The council, supported by a tax of $1.10 per $1,000 on all real estate transactions in the state, was originally used to finance environmental protection and historic preservation projects, but soon began awarding grants for arts projects.
"Governor Clinton knew that in bad economic times, when we couldn't get more money for the arts council, this was a way we could fund the arts," Ms. Lindsey said.
"I hate to put words in anyone's mouth, but this is the sort of thing the Governor will be looking at: cooperative projects between agencies instead of just one agency."
Asked about the prospect of reviving the Federal council, Ms. Sale responded, "It would certainly not be inconsistent with the sort of work Bill Clinton has been doing here in Arkansas."
 
A List of Potential Candidates
 In addition to Ms. Sale and Mrs. Lindsey, the list of possible replacements for Anne-Imelda Radice, the acting arts endowment chairwoman, includes Dr. Mary Schmidt Campbell, the dean of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University; Adele Chatfield-Taylor, the president of the American Academy in Rome and a former head of the design-arts program for the National Endowment for the Arts; Claudine Brown, a deputy assistant secretary at the Smithsonian Institution; Cynthia Mayeda, the chairwoman of the Dayton Hudson Foundation; Anne Hawley, the director of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston; Lloyd Richards, a former dean of the Yale School of Drama; John Brademas, a former president of New York University, and Luis R. Cancel, the commissioner of the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs.
Prominently mentioned as a possible successor to Lynne V. Cheney, the chairwoman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, is Vartan Gregorian, the president of Brown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS JIMMY CARTER ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



544 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
Elizabeth II: Pageantry, Small Talk, but No Gossip

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
I cannot say with certainty that "Elizabeth R: A Year in the Life of the Queen" is the most boring two-hour BBC import ever to make its way to American public television, since I wore out after about 30 minutes. But it must be in the running.
The pageantry in this authorized tour, which can be seen tonight on PBS (at 9 P.M. on Channels 13 and 49 in New York), may remind you of the sets of postcards available around Piccadilly Circus; there are also statistics of the mildest interest (368 people work at Buckingham Palace), glimpses of the royal family, but no gossip, and snatches of conversation, official and less official. 
 Here is Her Majesty giving a gift to Francesco Cossiga, the President of Italy, a high point of a state visit:
The President: "This is for my wife?"
The Queen: "And that is for your wife."
The President: "Oh thank you very much, yes."
The Queen: "Which is a small clock."
The President: "A small clock."
Here, in a less formal encounter, is the Queen talking to Michael Oswald, an overseer of her stud farm at Sandringham:
The Queen, referring to a horse: "If you listen, it's a very level walk, that."
Mr. Oswald: "Yes."
The Queen: "Isn't that interesting."
Well, as they say, it doesn't get more interesting than that, at least not in the first half-hour, which includes scenes inside Buckingham Palace of Elizabeth going over letters to the Queen with her principal private secretary, Sir Robert Fellowes, who tells her that the National Canine Defense League would like her to become a patron; sitting for a portrait; paying a visit to a retirement home in Heckmondwike with her press secretary, Charles Anson, one of her ladies-in-waiting, Richenda Elton, and the Equerry, Blair Stewart-Wilson. She asks a resident, "You have a room here of your own, do you?" (An equerry, if you were wondering, is an officer of the Royal household who attends upon either the Sovereign or her horses)
Although the press release that calls this program "an intimate portrait" will not make the 1992 truth-in-publicity honors list, those who bear with it may get an inkling of the Queen's public life and her personality.
Elizabeth II seems to be a straightforward sort, who goes about her duties uncomplainingly and has developed a talent for the smallest of small talk during her endless round of visiting and being visited. Her duties and pleasures -- which in the unreviewed 90 minutes of the program include a visit to naval wives in Portsmouth during the war in the Persian Gulf; visits by dignitaries, including Lech Walesa, to Windsor Castle; an official visit to Northern Ireland, and the royal visit to the United States in May 1991 -- are all minutely programmed for her. Her most spontaneous moments come at Derby Day at Epson, where she wins 16 pounds and actually seems to be enjoying herself.
 
"The New Europeans"
 Britain also figures in "The New Europeans," three hourlong looks at the developing European Economic Community, its promise, its problems and, especially, its complexity. The first program, "Road to Unity," tomorrow on PBS (at 10 P.M. on Channels 13 and 49 in New York), treats some of the main issues through a few entrepreneurs and workers in several countries. It doesn't go very deep, but does manage to get across considerable information in easy doses.
Next week "Global Agendas" touches on such difficult matters as the mass immigration within Europe that is raising political tensions and temperatures and a united Europe's relations with Japan and the United States. The final program, "Regional Dreams," focuses on the deep economic divisions within Europe and other differences among the nations involved. All in all "The New Europeans" is a serviceable introduction to a changing or unraveling story.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ELIZABETH R: A YEAR IN THE LIFE OF THE QUEEN (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (64%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS; ROYAL FAMILY; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); FAMILY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); HORSES (70%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (65%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF GREAT BRITAIN ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



545 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Iran Resurgent

 BODY:
Iran, once the dominant military power in the Persian Gulf, now races to reclaim supremacy. No longer distracted by internal turmoil or endless war with Iraq, Teheran is using its oil wealth to buy weapons systems from the East and sophisticated technologies from the West that can be used to build nuclear bombs, ballistic missiles, advanced aviation and germ warfare weapons.
In the hands of a regime that still sponsors international terrorism and exports Islamic revolution, this dramatic buildup could develop into a world-class problem. Better to take preventive action now, with an international agreement to regulate the most dangerous transactions. 
 President Rafsanjani has restored a measure of stability at home and revived economic growth. But Iran's foreign policy remains adventurist. It seized a strategic gulf island in September and continues to aid violent fundamentalists abroad.
Chastened by the experience of helping Iraq build its war machine only to confront it in combat, Congress and the Administration are wisely moving to tighten restrictions on what Americans can sell to Iran. But to be effective, the new rules have to be coordinated with other sellers.
Much of what Iran is now buying from the West falls into the ambiguous category known as "dual use." High-speed computers and software, navigation equipment, specialized switches and communications technology can be used for civilian purposes, like petrochemical plants and civilian aviation. Or they can be used for weapons.
American companies legally sold Iran hundreds of millions of dollars worth of dual-use items last year. That figure will be cut back sharply by the new U.S. restrictions. But these won't limit sales from U.S. allies, or direct weapons transfers from China or former Soviet republics.
Tighter rules on transferring dual-use technologies have to be negotiated among the main supplier countries, the way Western nations once policed sensitive exports to the Communist bloc.
Not every potential dual-use item need be prohibited. That would only complicate agreement among suppliers and invite evasion. The U.S. has no interest in handicapping Iran's development, only in restricting military technologies.
Actual weapons sales can best be restrained by building on a five-power initiative the Bush Administration sponsored right after the Persian Gulf war. By July 1991, Washington, London, Paris, Moscow and Beijing had agreed to a joint statement on curbing the destabilizing transfer of nuclear and conventional weapons to the Mideast.
But there was no real follow-up, and during the Presidential campaign President Bush announced huge new deals with Saudi Arabia and Israel. Teheran's current arms drive gives Mr. Bush, and Mr. Clinton, a compelling reason to revive the 1991 initiative and make sure it covers Iran.
New revelations about how Western dual-use exports helped Saddam Hussein turn Iraq into a dangerous military power appear almost daily. It's important not to make the same mistake in Iran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAN (89%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAN (89%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); FRANCE (51%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); TERRORISM (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RELIGION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); PETROCHEMICALS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



546 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Rogue White Elephant

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Where will the new President turn for vital information to help him make life-or-death decisions on foreign affairs?
To the C.I.A., of course. His national security adviser will tell him not to curtail that vast establishment. His new economic security adviser will suggest expanding its reach into the world of economic intelligence. 
If President Clinton should trouble to ask what all this costs, he will be told a fact kept secret from the American public: about $20 billion a year goes to military intelligence -- from satellites still reading Kremlin license plates to Big Ears listening to millions of voice and data transmissions -- and an additional $10 billion per year to the C.I.A. for human spying, covert operations, and analysis that winds up in the President's daily intelligence brief.
He may ask: Why can't the American taxpayer be told, at least in the aggregate, how much is spent on the intelligence gathering and evaluation?
Reaction: horror. He would be told that sources and methods would be blown, allied services betrayed by publication of our overall intelligence budget. Worst of all, the cozy symbiosis between the intelligence community and its Congressional overseers would be shattered if nosy outsiders knew the real rate of growth of our spying spending.
If the new President has any moxie, he will cut through this stultifying secrecy and demand to know: Are we getting enough data for the dollar? How does the efficiency of our operation compare with that of other major nations? Is the information so expensively gathered lost in the bureaucracy or made available to the decision-maker at the moment of decision?
A recent episode is illuminating. If C.I.A. spokesmen are to be believed, the agency "misfiled" some pertinent intelligence about the participation of Italian officials in the decision to help finance Saddam Hussein's arms buildup. This supposedly led our gullible Justice Department to absolve Rome of wrongdoing and cost U.S. taxpayers billions in loan guarantees.
Misfiled? Lost some memos? That suggests C.I.A. clerks sticking handwritten slips into red-taped folders and putting them in oaken file cabinets, with the system of retrieval in one Uriah Heep's head.
In fact, even the agency's new family jewels are on computers. Any hacker with software costing $49 and all the relevant C.I.A. access codes in hand could type in "Lavoro or B.N.L. or Matrix or Dragoul or Atlanta and Iraq," command "Search," and turn up all the memos that were mysteriously "misfiled" for years -- and more.
Either the C.I.A. method of handling data is egregiously inefficient -- unable to call up and present hard intelligence to help the President make a far-reaching decision directive -- or the organization is corrupt, deliberately concealing the truth from lawmakers and law enforcement officials.
Faced with this reality, what's a new President to do?
1. Pick a Director of Central Intelligence who knows how accountability has been avoided but is not a compromised insider.
Senate Intelligence Committee chairman David Boren, who bet the Company on Robert Gates, was betrayed and is sore; he's the sort who could introduce competitive "Team B's" to improve the product while reducing waste. Scheduled to be next year's chairman is Senator Sam Nunn; President Clinton should agree to notify Congressional leaders of "findings" within 24 hours.
2. The Intelligence Oversight Board within the White House has always been a joke, but the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board -- "Piffiab" -- was once useful in providing a quality control check by informed outsiders.
When Mr. Reagan purged Martin Anderson and other critics at Director Bill Casey's request, Piffiab lost its independence; Mr. Bush further reduced it to a panel of technocrats. The new President should replace and expand the board, let it hire competent new staff and make it a source of citizen oversight of Langley's old pros.
3. Focus on new missions for the new C.I.A.: protection of industrial privacy and preparation for decisions involving "the right to intervene" when genocide looms. We didn't hear about intelligence in the campaign, but now it's time to get serious.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); ITALY (53%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (52%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (53%); ROME, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); ITALY (53%); GEORGIA, USA (52%); ROME, ITALY (53%); ROME, GA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); DATA TRANSMISSION (75%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); FAMILY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



547 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Accounting

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A variety of objections, speculation really, is readily at hand for those who sense danger and worse in the prospective North American free trade agreement. For example, while those on both sides tacitly assume that Mexican demographic and economic data are reliable, the assumption can in no way be justified. 
 The Latin American republics were introduced to modern accounting methods by the 19th-century railroad barons and the banking houses that sold their bonds.
Invariably, the result was oversubscribed bond issues that financed railroads that were either never built or that were ceded to foreign commercial control.
Latin governments soon learned two responses to this scam: one was to inflate currency outrageously to repay bondholders; the other was the practice each revolutionary government followed of declaring a clean economic slate, not incidentally renouncing the debts of the previous "criminal" regime.
Thus, creative accounting became a time-honored feature of Latin American economic reports. An Oct. 22 front-page article on United States migrant law refers to Mexicans "fleeing severe unemployment at home," which can be confirmed by anyone who has visited Mexico in recent years. Despite such reports, you quote Mexican unemployment as hovering around the 3 percent level.
They're cooking the books, and that's the problem.
 
DONALD KERR
Bronx, Oct. 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); BONDS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BOND ISSUES (70%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



548 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The President-Elect;
CLINTON DISCUSSES LEGISLATIVE MOVES WITH CONGRESSMEN

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 15

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton met tonight for three hours with three top Democratic Congressional leaders to begin setting a legislative agenda to get his Administration off to a fast start, beginning with an economic stimulus package.
Mr. Clinton sought advice from the leaders, Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington, Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, on what obstacles they thought his economic package and legislative program might face in Congress, a Congressional aide said tonight. 
 Mr. Clinton told reporters after his morning jog that the theme he wanted to strike in this session was "we've got a big job to do and we've got to do it together."
And after the meeting a top Clinton aide, George Stephanopoulos, said the session had shown that "everybody is ready to work together on the same priorities." None of the lawmakers would discuss the meeting with reporters tonight, but they will hold a news conference with Mr. Clinton on Monday.
 
Seeking Cooperative Spirit
 While two of tonight's dinner guests, Mr. Foley and Mr. Mitchell, have scoffed at the importance of measuring accomplishments in the traditional first 100 days, on all sides there are strong hopes for some quick victories.
Fast, cooperative action, leaders and Clinton aides believe, could lay to rest the fears that Congress can no longer cooperate with any President and still memories of the conflicts a Democratic Congress had with the last Democratic President, Jimmy Carter.
Mr. Clinton himself told reporters after his jog, "Oh, I think we're just going to have a meeting to kind of renew our acquaintance, talk about our obligations, look to the future a little bit, talk a little bit about next week when I go to Washington."
 
'Clear Priorities'
 Tonight's meeting had originally been expected to touch only lightly on the substance of legislation and instead focuse more on how to work together. But one Congressional aide said afterward that most of the three hours had been spent on the issues Mr. Clinton will ask Congress to face, from the economy to health care to campaign finance.
In setting his legislative agenda, Mr. Clinton must put order to the "clear priorities" he spoke of on Thursday at his first post-election news conference. Those priorities include job creation, deficit reduction, the establishment of a national health-care system and the strengthening of political ethics rules.
At the news conference, he said he recognized that President Carter had tried to pass so many ambitious measures in his first three months that he overloaded Congress and achieved little. He said he would not fall into that trap and said, "I expect to keep the focus on these economic issues, and I'm not trying to scale back, or scale down, or anything else."
Before tonight's meeting, Mr. Clinton got some encouragement for his prospects in Congress when Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, abandoned the harsh tone he has used toward Mr. Clinton since the election. "My view is that they deserve some time to get things under way," he said.
Mr. Dole said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" that all-out Republican opposition to Mr. Clinton's legislative proposals would be "very selective." He said, "We're not trying to frustrate what he does," and added, "I don't think we want to be obstructionist."
Mr. Dole also dismissed the 100-day measuring stick as artificial, saying: "I don't think there's any magic in how much you do in the first 100 days. If you push too hard to do too much in too short a time span, you may end upon the reef somewhere."
But Mr. Clinton also encountered some strong opposition to his plan to lift the ban on homosexuals serving in the military. Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee, said he favored the present policy, and said extended hearings should be held on the issue. "If you did it overnight, I fear for the lives of people in the military themselves," he said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation."
The meeting with Mr. Foley, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Gephardt and Vice President-elect Al Gore was Mr. Clinton's first post-election encounter with Congressional lawmakers. But he has been talking on the telephone not only to them but to other important legislators as well.
For example, Mr. Clinton has spoken more than once to both Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the Senate Appropriations Committee.
 
Opposing Line-Item Veto
 From the tax elements of any economic stimulus package to changes in the health-care industry, many of Mr. Clinton's most cherished plans must go first to Ways and Means, which also has the early, but politically painful duty of moving legislation to raise the statutory limit on the national debt.
The $4.145 trillion ceiling is expected to be reached by March or April. Mr. Rostenkowski, Mr. Foley and Mr. Gephardt have said frequently that a new limit cannot be passed unless it is accompanied by measures to insure reductions in the annual Federal deficits that boost the debt.
Mr. Byrd opposes Mr. Clinton's call for a line-item veto, which some supporters see as a necessary method to trim deficits. The Senator also appears to oppose a substitute the new President might welcome, an increased authority to rescind appropriations.
Under a line-item veto, it would take two-thirds majorities in both houses to retain a piece of spending challenged by the President. Under existing rescission laws, the President can challenge spending, but it only takes a majority for Congress to reinstate it.
Tonight's meeting will be followed by two more encounters in Washington on Thursday with the legislative branch.
Mr. Dole, with whom Mr. Clinton spoke by telephone last week, offered the President-elect some hope today of better relations with Republicans than President Bush has enjoyed with Congressional Democrats. While Mr. Dole did not specifically recant his threat to block any "awful legislation" proposed by Mr. Clinton, or his insistence that as the Republican leader in the Senate he would speak for the majority who did not vote for Mr. Clinton, his tone today was generally amiable.
The Kansas Republican said his purpose had been to make clear that "we're not going to be patsies and floor mats and rubber stamps." But, he said, "My view has been from the start that we have an obligation where we can to help the President-elect."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in some editions on Monday, with the continuation of an article about President-elect Bill Clinton's meeting with Congressional leaders, misidentified the man at the right. He was George J. Mitchell, the Senate majority leader.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President-elect Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, played host last night to the Democratic Congressional leadership, from left, Senator George J. Mitchell, the majority leader, Representative Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader, and Speaker Thomas S. Foley. (pg. A1); President-elect Bill Clinton, and his wife, Hillary, greeting Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington, left, and Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, before the start of a dinner last night at the Governor's mansion in Little Rock, Ark. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); HEALTH CARE (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ETHICS (65%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER); MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (91%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992



549 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Tightens Curbs on Belgrade By Authorizing a Naval Blockade

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 16

 BODY:
The Security Council voted tonight to impose a naval blockade against Yugoslavia, for the first time adding enforcement provisions to trade sanctions that were adopted against the Serbian-led Belgrade Government in May.
The United States was among 13 nations voting in favor. The Council's other two members, China and Zimbabwe, abstained. 
 Sanctions were originally imposed on May 31 on Serbia and Montenegro, the two remaining republics of Yugoslavia. But intelligence reports in recent weeks have indicated that arms and petroleum products slipped through with relative ease. According to information from the United States, oil has been illegally shipped into Serbia from Greece, Malta, Italy and Egypt.
The new resolution imposes the naval embargo on both the Adriatic Sea and the Danube River, which by law is an international waterway and is said to carry oil shipments to Serbia from the Black Sea. Vessels suspected of carrying illegal supplies can now be stopped and inspected. Diplomats said shots could be fired across the bow of vessels refusing to stop for inspection.
How far any confrontation could be taken beyond that point, no one here was prepared to say. NATO and the Western European Union, the military arm of the European Community, have 10 naval vessels in the Adriatic but had not been authorized to stop and search. Diplomats said it was possible that United States vessels could be involved in the Adriatic.
Ships suspected of carrying illegal cargo by way of the Danube would fall under the responsibility of member nations along its borders, particularly Bulgaria and Romania.
The resolution, drafted by the United States, Britain, France, Russia and Belgium, also declared that strategic supplies could no longer be transshipped across Serbia and Montenegro without first being inspected by United Nations monitors. Diplomats said trucks headed for other countries had been dropping off illegal strategic supplies in Serbia. Commodities falling under the sanctions include crude oil, natural gas, aircraft, vehicles, metals, tires, motors and coal.
The Chinese representative, Li Dayou, said he abstained because sanctions were ineffective. When sanctions were first imposed, Mr. Li recalled, China said they would not help but would further aggravate the situation. "We cannot take a different position now, he said.
The resolution also calls upon Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to study the creation of security zones, or havens, for civilians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Diplomats stressed that the idea was still in the formative stage and acknowledged that an important military or police presence would probably be needed to make the zones effective.
The two-day debate leading to the new resolution was requested by a group of Islamic countries as a show of support for the Muslim-led Government and people of Bosnia. During the debate, a number of the Islamic countries, including Afghanistan, Jordan, Iran and Pakistan, called on the Council to exclude Bosnia from an embargo on weapons sales imposed on all the former Yugoslavia republics in September 1991.
Since there are no plans to intervene militarily, they argued, Bosnia should at least be allowed to defend itself against the heavily-armed Serbs.
The Security Council refused, heeding the advice of one of the first speakers in the debate, the former American Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance. Mr. Vance, one of the two principal mediators at the Geneva Conference on Yugoslavia, told the Council on Friday that "it taxes credulity to suggest that lifting the arms embargo for only one party is either feasible or desirable."
The Yugoslav Foreign Minister, Ilija Djukic, said the sanctions would only hurt the "most vulnerable part of the population." He insisted that the Serbs fighting in Bosnia were irregulars who did not answer to the Belgrade, while their Muslim opponents were mercenaries from other Islamic nations.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
No Details Yet, U.S. Says
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 16 (Special to The New York Times) -- A White House spokeswoman said tonight that "no detailed plans have been discussed on the actual implementation" of the embargo approved by the Security Council. She added that the Pentagon would probably release information on Tuesday.
An Administration official said the Government supported stricter sanctions against Serbia, but the official was unwilling to publicly commit the United States to military support of the embargo.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.N. General Expresses Hope
 SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Nov. 16 (Reuters) -- The commander of United Nations peacekeeping forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina said today that he believed the worst of the civil war might be over.
"Some small steps forward could prove that the nightmare is over," said the commander, Gen. Philippe Morillon of France.
He spoke after representatives of the allied Bosnian Croats and Muslims sat down with their Serbian nationalist antagonists and agreed to open the road from Mostar to Sarajevo for United Nations and humanitarian aid convoys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BULGARIA (89%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (75%); MALTA (57%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; CHINA; ZIMBABWE ; DANUBE RIVER; ADRIATIC SEA; BULGARIA; ROMANIA SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BULGARIA (89%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (75%); MALTA (57%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); NAVIES; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); VEHICLE SEARCH (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); RELIGION (62%); POLICE FORCES (52%); 

PERSON: ;PRIAL, FRANK J

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



550 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The President-Elect;
Clinton and Top Legislators Pledge Amity on Economy

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 16

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton gathered Democratic leaders around him today to pronounce an end to the "cold war" between Congress and the White House. But Mr. Clinton quickly confronted the degree to which his campaign pledges strain the coalition he will need to enact his programs.
At a news conference in the Arkansas State House, Mr. Clinton vowed to press ahead with his pledge to lift the ban on homosexuals in the armed forces, despite complaints from the Pentagon and signs of resistance from an important Democrat in Congress. 
 But today, Mr. Clinton, Vice President-elect Al Gore, Speaker Thomas S. Foley, Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader, and George J. Mitchell, the Senate majority leader, were all smiles as they extolled the virtues of one party controlling the Senate, the House and the White House for the first time since 1980.
After talks on Sunday night with Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary, they vowed to cooperate on a shared agenda of legislation to create jobs, affordable health care, middle-class tax relief and disciplined deficit reduction and to improve the long-term competitiveness of the American economy.
As he has throughout the transition, Mr. Clinton made no attempt to disguise the advisory role that his wife was playing. Although she was not present at the news conference, Mrs. Clinton took part in Sunday night's dinner talks. Mr. Clinton said she sat in on all the discussions, adding that "she talked a lot," and "knew more than we did about some things -- I think they would agree with that."
Mr. Clinton sounded conciliatory notes, as on his campaign demands for a cut in the size of the Congressional staff. After talking with his three guests, he said he no longer believed such a cut was needed and promised to slash the size of the White House staff. But the news conference was often diverted by questions about Mr. Clinton's plans for lifting the ban on homosexuals in the military.
 
No 'Timetable' on Lifting Ban
 Mr. Clinton said he had no "timetable" for lifting the ban and said he would impose a "very strict code of conduct" on homosexuals in the armed forces in an effort to insure that any inappropriate sexual behavior would not be tolerated. He also went out of his way to address concerns raised by Senator Sam Nunn, the George Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee.
But he made clear that he would press ahead with his plan, underscoring the tension between Mr. Clinton's hopes of focusing on the economy and health care -- issues for which he will need a broad coalition to make changes -- and some more controversial campaign pledges aimed at specific groups, which could splinter that coalition.
Mr. Clinton spiced his boilerplate remarks about working closely with Congress with some pointed jabs at the Bush Administration.
He went out of his way, for example, to say he hoped the size of the budget deficit his Administration would inherit from President Bush had not been "understated for next year and the year after."
Clinton aides say they are confident that the 103d Congress, impelled by public contempt for the gridlock that has characterized lawmaking in the last few years, will be eager to cooperate on legislation. Even Republicans, they say, will be judged more for what they pass than what they block.
Mr. Clinton said that he hoped Congress would promptly pass economic legislation but that his proposals for controlling health-care costs would take much longer because of their complexity.
"I do think we'll be able to do some things within 100 days," Mr. Clinton said. But on the issue of health care, he added, "what I have committed to do is present a plan within the first 100 days; I never said I would be able to pass a health-care plan" in that time.
The discussion in recent days of the ban on homosexuals in the military appears to be more the result of a miscalculation by Mr. Clinton than a choice. Clinton aides acknowledge that they have had a hard time adjusting from the campaign -- where the candidates shout as much as possible at the public and hope that something sticks -- to being President-elect, when every word is suddenly translatable into policies.
The issue of lifting the ban was raised last Wednesday when Mr. Clinton, answering a reporter's question after his Veteran's Day address, acknowledged that he intended to fulfill his campaign promise on this issue.
Now the issue has taken on a life of its own. Various active and retired military officers, along with Senator Nunn, cautioned the President-elect that lifting the ban would be insensitive to military men and women who live at close quarters in barracks.
In response, Mr. Clinton said, "We know that there have always been gays in the military, and we know, according to the study which was released near the end of the campaign, that it costs the United States taxpayers about $500 million to get fewer than 17,000 gays out of the military over the last 10 years."
Mr. Clinton was referring to a General Accounting Office study about the cost of investigating and litigating the effort to eliminate homosexuals from the military.
"The issue is not whether there are gays in the military," Mr. Clinton said. "It is whether they can be in the military without lying about it, as long as there is a very strict code of conduct which if they violate it would lead to dismissal from the service or other appropriate sanctions. There is a big difference between someone doing something wrong and their condition in life."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) STATE HOUSE PRESS (57%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HOMOSEXUALITY; MILITARY PERSONNEL; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ETHICS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); TAX RELIEF (67%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); NUNN, SAM (SEN) ; MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (77%); AL GORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



551 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: BISHOPS MAY AVOID STAND ON WOMEN

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops gathered here today to take a stand on a long-awaited pastoral letter on women in society and the church, but it was far from certain that the document they have been working on for nine years will actually come to a vote.
Rather than trying to achieve consensus on a sweeping document that has caused them only strife so far, the bishops may decide to have various committees develop positions on narrower questions that concern women. 
 In the nine years that the bishops have been writing and rewriting the letter, trying to reach agreement among themselves and with the Vatican, "we have managed to alienate at one time or another every identifiable male or female group," Bishop Joseph L. Imesch of Joliet, Ill., said today in remarks introducing the document to the meeting, whose sessions continue through Thursday.
 
Discrimination Is Condemned
 The four successive drafts of the letter have all affirmed the equality of women and condemned discrimination as a moral evil, but they have increasingly insisted that natural differences between men and women should not be minimized. The last draft, issued in August, also emphasized the church's traditional teaching that only men can serve as priests and expanded the section dealing with contraception and other sexual behavior that the church has judged sinful.
Conservative Catholics, including some women's groups, have criticized all the drafts as conceding too much to feminist views. Some liberal Catholic women's groups have said from the start that a document from the all-male hierarchy would lack credibility.
But when the bishops held extensive hearings throughout the nation, and included in the first draft many passages quoting women from those hearings, the liberal faction welcomed that draft as opening the process to women. Since that first draft in 1988, later drafts have followed more closely the traditional Vatican teachings.
At coffee breaks between business sessions today, many bishops were talking about a proposal to terminate the work of the committee drafting the letter by handing over all four drafts, plus all the material the committee had gathered, to several permanent committees of the bishops' conference that deal with women's issues.
These committees could issue much more limited documents on specific topics, like economic and social discrimination against women and some widening of women's roles in the church. The committees would be expected to concentrate their actions on areas where the bishops were already in substantial agreement. The model would be a strong condemnation of domestic violence against women issued several weeks ago jointly by the bishops' Committee on Marriage and Family and their Committee on Women in Society and in the Church.
Pastoral letters are among the weightiest teaching documents a conference of bishops can issue. Although not automatically binding on Catholics in their entirety, these letters frequently contain binding precepts, and in any case set out positions that Catholics are at least obliged to consider seriously in making decisions. In addition, pastoral letters set policy for the church's national agencies.
By comparison, the force of letters issued by bishops' committees depend largely on whether they articulate views already widely held among the bishops or the Catholic population.
 
Seeking Test Vote
 Passage of a pastoral letter requires the approval of two-thirds of the 287 active American bishops, but the hierarchy usually strives for an even greater consensus. A full-scale debate on the letter would dramatize exactly how split the bishops still are on a number of issues in the document.
Joseph Cardinal Bernardin of Chicago, considered a master of compromise among the bishops, will offer a proposal to turn the document over to the committees, several bishops said, perhaps at the very beginning of debate on the letter on Tuesday morning.
Still other bishops, primarily conservatives, expressed concern that setting aside the letter might be seen as indicating the bishops' lack of support for the church's official teaching limiting ordination to the priesthood to men. Those bishops are seeking some kind of test vote to demonstrate support for Rome.
Archbishop William J. Levada of Portland, Ore., pointed out that in the latest round of criticism of the letter, two bishops had published articles in two Catholic publications questioning the church's bar against ordaining women. Those statements and the attention given to last week's approval of ordaining women by the Church of England "have raised the stakes," he said, and "call into question the teaching of the church."
 
'So Many Nuances'
 Archbishop Levada, who also wanted the pastoral letter fully debated and predicted that it would be approved, favored a clear indication of "the mind of the body of bishops" on the question of women and the priesthood, whether linked directly to a vote on the letter or as a separate motion.
Bishop Imesch, who headed the committee drafting the letter, disagreed. "I don't think we want a black-and-white, a yes-and-no vote" on the ordination issue, he said. "There are so many nuances."
Other bishops said that a separate vote just on the question of ordination would be seen as a "loyalty test" toward the Vatican.
At a daily press briefing by the bishops conference today, Bishop Matthew H. Clark of Rochester said that although the vast majority of bishops accepted the church's limitation of the priesthood to men, a considerable number recognize that many "in the Catholic community today, many well-informed, loyal people" disagree. Those bishops do not want "to say that these questions are forever closed, pre-empted and not discussable," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the nine years that bishops have been rewriting the letter on the role of women in the church, trying to reach agreement among themselves and with the Vatican, "we have managed to alienate at one time or another every identifiable male or female group," said Bishop Joseph L. Imesch of Joliet, Ill. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH COMMITTEE ON WOMEN (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH COMMITTEE ON WOMEN (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); WOMEN (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); MEN (74%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (60%); 

PERSON: IMESCH, JOSEPH L (BISHOP); STEINFELS, PETER WILLIAM J LEVADA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



552 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION;
Avoiding Gridlock by Wooing Both Sides of Aisle

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 16

 BODY:
When President-elect Bill Clinton promised today to cooperate with Congress, saying "Pennsylvania Avenue will run both ways again," his hopes were grander than mere cooperation with the Democratic leaders standing behind him.
He wants Republican votes for his proposals, too. 
 His assertion at a news conference that "the Republicans know that the country voted for action, for an end to gridlock and an end to blame" could be dismissed as wishful puffery had he not made it clear to the leaders on Sunday that he intended to pursue Republicans, wooing the other party more more aggressively perhaps than any President since Lyndon B. Johnson.
Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said he had urged Mr. Clinton to work with some Republican senators, telling him they had as much interest in the good of the country as Democrats did. He said today that they discussed several particular Senators on Sunday night.
 
Lunch With the G.O.P.
 One Congressional aide said Mr. Clinton had made it clear that he planned to have Republicans to the White House -- where Democrats were rarely invited to business meetings this year -- and seek their views on how to structure some legislation.
He is not waiting for Inauguration Day. Last week he spoke by telephone with Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, who had saluted his victory with a furious attack on Mr. Clinton's slim mandate. This week he will meet the entire Republican leadership at a bipartisan lunch.
Of course, the desire for cooperation does not guarantee its accomplishment. Despite the optimism everyone offered today, his relations with Republicans, and Democrats, may end up badly.
Many Democrats are much more liberal than Mr. Clinton and may be suspicious of him if he is dealing seriously with Republicans. And most Republicans are much more conservative than he is. Beyond ideology, moreover, there is inherent constitutional tension between the two rival branches.
 
Dole's Rapprochement
 But Mr. Clinton appears to be counting on Congress's sharing his sense that government is on the defensive.
He may have a little bit of success to claim already, in the muted partisanship Mr. Dole displayed Sunday on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." The Kansan proclaimed himself interested in cooperating where he could and even offered the helpful thought that Mr. Clinton should not try to do too much in his first 100 days or else he could end up "on a reef."
There are two plausible motives behind Mr. Dole's shift, and neither is Mr. Clinton's charm. One is that Mr. Dole got a lot more criticism than he expected for his early pledge to block "awful" Clinton proposals and his insistence that he could represent the 57 percent of voters who did not vote for the Democrat.
The second is that Mr. Dole is happiest when he can legislate, when he can help forge a compromise that gets a bill passed. He did that on civil rights and unemployment compensation in 1991 but was frustrated by the Bush Administration's rejection of similar efforts regarding abortion counseling and fetal tissue research in 1992.
But if Mr. Clinton is going to try to legislate, Mr. Dole wants to be a player.
If they can deal from time to time, that will matter to Mr. Clinton's success not just because it will mean less Republican obstructionism in the Senate. If a bill in either house gets some significant share of Republican support, it becomes easier for conservative Democrats to support it, too. So even if dealing with Republicans means that some proposals have to be toned down a bit to get their support, the result may be that more of Mr. Clinton's proposals get passed.
The President-elect also offered hints of his legislative tactics in the news conference. Twice he stood firm on substance, and once he showed himself eager to compromise on process.
He praised Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee, for raising the important issue of personal privacy over the question of homosexuals in the military, but insisted he would not be deterred from ending the ban on their service.
He defended Senator Mitchell against a questioner's suggestion that the majority leader was not a full-fledged supporter of a middle-class tax cut, saying Mr. Mitchell worried about the deficit just the way he did. But he said Mr. Mitchell joined him in believing that fairness on the tax code was essential.
Finally, he embraced a substitute for the line-item veto he has advocated, saying the change was "functionally almost identical" to the procedure used in Arkansas. The substitute would enable him to force a separate vote on spending he considered unjustified.
That subject, incidentally, highlighted one of the major legislative problems he will face: the Senate.
The proposal is being pushed by Speaker Thomas S. Foley and eagerly backed by Mr. Clinton's associate from the Democratic Legislative Council, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader.
 
Avoiding Carter's Lead
 But Mr. Mitchell could commit himself to do no more than "review" the proposal. His style of leadership reflects the deference other senators expect, and in this case he was not going to step one inch out in front of Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee and a critic of procedures intended to help the President thwart Congressional spending.
No one doubts that there will be clashes between Mr. Clinton and Congress. But this week's efforts are a notable contrast to the last time the Democrats had both the White House and the Congress in their control with a new President coming in. Sixteen years ago Tuesday Jimmy Carter had a group of Democrats down to meet with him at Lovejoy, Ga., and the retiring Speaker of the House, Carl Albert, did not bother to go.
This time they apparently discussed dozens of possible legislative issues, from economic stimulus to campaign finance. In 1976, they talked mostly about how much authority to give Mr. Carter to reorganize the Federal Government, and hardly at all about the recession that had helped put him in office or his other legislative plans. When the Democrats emerged and said they expected cooperation, they really did not know what they expected to cooperate on. In the end, they did not cooperate very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After meeting with Democratic Congressional leaders yesterday, President-elect Bill Clinton spoke of ending the "cold war between Congress and the White House" and of getting Republicans behind his proposals. He was flanked by, from left, George J. Mitchell, Senate majority leader; Vice President-elect Al Gore; Richard A. Gephardt, House majority leader, and Speaker Thomas S. Foley. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NBC UNIVERSAL INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



553 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Northwest and KLM may function as one airline, the Transportation Department said. It would be the first time a foreign and a domestic airline can act as one carrier, even though legally they would remain separate companies. [Page A1.]
G.M. recognized in 1983 that its pickups could be made less vulnerable to collisions that might break open their fuel tanks, company files say. But it waited years to change the designs. [A1.] 
 Time Inc. named Henry Muller to its No. 2 editorial position. He will share with Jason McManus the editorial responsibilities for the company's eight magazines. [D1.]
A fund headed by Marvin Traub has acquired Conran Stores, which operates Conran's Habitat in the United States. Mr. Traub is the former chairman of Bloomingdale's. [D1.]
Nabisco's cold-cereal business is to be sold for $450 million to the Kraft General Foods division of Philip Morris. [D4.]
Kmart's profits increased about 12 percent, and Toys "R" Us said its net income was up nearly 15 percent. [D4.]
Tiffany's sales and profits were sharply lower. It attributed the declines to the slowing Japanese economy. [D4.]
A fake call-waiting system has been invented to get callers to hang up in deference to what they think is an incoming call. [D4.]
Microsoft acknowledged that a wrong turn on its commercial data base project cost it $20 million. [D5.] I.B.M introduced four speech-recognition products for PC's. [D5.]
Walter F. Williams resigned as Rubbermaid's chairman. [D5.]
 
The Economy
Guidelines for savings and loans officers were issued by the Office of Thrift Supervision. But other Federal regulators said they feared the the new rules would make it harder to recover damages from negligent executives and directors. [D1.]
Industrial production rose 0.3 percent in October, helped by a large gain in light-truck manufacturing. In another positive sign, business inventories were up only slightly in September. [D11.]
A judge scheduled a hearing for testimony from doctors on whether Clark M. Clifford is too ill to stand trial in New York. [D6.]
 
International
Punitive import taxes would be dropped for flat-panel screens if the U.S. approves an unexpected request by the only American company selling such computer screens. [D1.]
Western Germany's growth is expected to slump to zero in 1993, according to an independent forecast. [D2.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip and transportation stocks fell sharply. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 27.29 points, to 3,205.74, while the Dow transportation index lost 27.80 points, to 1,350.90. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury bills and notes took a beating in thin but volatile trading. The main impetus behind the selling is a belief that short-term interest rates have ended their decline. [D15.]
The dollar resumed its rally, rising on the heels of fresh reports pointing toward a reviving American economy. [D16.]
Oil prices snapped back, erasing last week's losses on expectations that colder weather will raise heating oil demand. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Pockets of deflation are emerging in the U.S. economy, raising some concerns and gradually reshaping the national outlook. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Biomed has attracted attention with a new antibiotic. But the company neglected to announce that third-stage clinical trials have been suspended. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D6.]
The Advertising Council is moving public-service campaigns into the realm of so-called new media like talk shows, MTV and program-length commercials. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (55%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIME INC (83%); TOYS 'R' US INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); DAMAGES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); JUDGES (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MARVIN STUART TRAUB (70%); JASON DONALD MCMANUS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



554 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Hanoi Backs Study To Trace M.I.A's

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Members of a Senate panel investigating the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War hailed what they said today was a new spirit of cooperation from Vietnam and suggested strongly that President Bush might soon relax an economic embargo against the Hanoi Government.
The comments by the senators followed a meeting in Hanoi with a senior official who pledged that Vietnam would provide "the clearest possible answers" to questions about the 2,265 Americans still unaccounted for. 
 "We are at a critical juncture," said Senator John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat and Vietnam veteran who is chairman of the Senate Select Committee on P.O.W.-M.I.A. Affairs. "We are definitely on a road leading to normalization.
"It's my sense that the President may be in a position, if we get adequate cooperation and if we can speed this process up, to make positive moves with respect to the embargo. I think that the Government of Vietnam has made a decision to help us get answers."
 
Letter From Bush
 The embargo has barred United States investment in Vietnam, has discouraged other foreign investment and has prevented the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other large international financial institutions from assisting Hanoi in rebuilding an economy that is only now beginning to recover from the war.
Senator Kerry said he was carrying a letter from President Bush to President Le Duc Anh. The Senator said he believed it was the first direct communication from a United States President to his Vietnamese counterpart since the fall of South Vietnam in 1975.
While Senator Kerry did not make the contents public, Congressional officials said they understood the letter made clear that President Bush, in his final weeks in office, was willing to move quickly to improve relations in exchange for further cooperation on the question of missing Americans.
Senator Hank Brown of Colorado, the Republican on the three-member delegation, said that "if there is a perception that we have had positive meetings this week, then you'll see the White House act" on the embargo.
 
The Pain of the Embargo
 Vietnam is eager to begin normal diplomatic relations with the United States and is desperate to see Washington lift the embargo, which was imposed against the North Vietnamese Government in 1964 and against all of Vietnam in 1975.
The Vietnamese are aware that they are operating against the clock -- specifically, they want Washington to lift the embargo before the transfer of power in the White House in January.
Vietnamese officials say their best of hope of ending the embargo quickly rests with President Bush, since President-elect Bill Clinton has already told veterans' groups that he feels no pressure to improve relations with Vietnam while there are unanswered questions about the fate of missing Americans.
Last month Hanoi announced that it would provide Defense Department investigators with full access to military museums and war archives.
 
Senate Report Due Soon
 Defense Department officials have described the announcement as a breakthrough in their efforts to determine what became of the Americans. The museums and archives are believed to hold thousands of artifacts collected from Americans -- as well as photographs of some of them -- after they were captured or killed in territory held by North Vietnamese forces.
Senator Kerry, Senator Brown and Senator Tom Daschle, a South Dakota Democrat, are representing the committee on a five-day tour of South Vietnam and Laos, the panel's last scheduled trip to Southeast Asia before it completes its work at the end of the year and submits a final report.
The Senators are expected to meet Tuesday with Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet and Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam, and to tour military installations in Hanoi where Americans were once rumored to have been held.
In a meeting today with the senators, Deputy Foreign Minister Le Mai pledged that "any request, any question you raise, we will give the clearest possible answers."
 
20 Years Is 'Long Enough'
 "It has been 20 years now since the end of the war," he said. "That is long enough. That is why we should accelerate our cooperation."
The Senators also met with the senior officials directly involved in assisting the Pentagon in searching for information about missing Americans.
Although the meeting did not resolve the fate of any of the Americans unaccounted for, Senator Kerry said the spirit of conciliation may signal an important shift in Hanoi's policies. It was the first time the Vietnamese had opened such a meeting to reporters.
"This is the first time we've ever had a discussion in the open like this -- about substantive cases, about real facts," Senator Kerry said. "It's fair to say that the policies of Vietnam have changed. It's very, very welcome."
Senator Daschle said, "For the first time, they're as forthcoming as we could hope them to be."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (94%); VIET NAM (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (94%); VIET NAM (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; MISSING IN ACTION; PRISONERS OF WAR; EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM VIETNAM WAR (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); VETERANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: KERRY, JOHN F (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



555 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: The Economy;
Liberals Advise Clinton to Raise Deficit Spending

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
As President-elect Clinton shapes his economic plan, he has had plenty of counsel from supporters of Ross Perot, who are pressing him to cut the budget deficit sooner rather than later.
But today he got a heavy dose of advice from the other side, as a liberal-leaning commission appointed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York called for a generous dollop of increased deficit spending to lift the weak economy. 
 The commission, which included business executives, union leaders and economists, said cutting the deficit should take a back seat to getting the economy moving again, although it added that any plan to stimulate the economy should be tied to a long-term effort to trim the deficit.
Members said the panel formed in 1990 to prepare the report as a possible economic program for Mr. Cuomo if he ran for President in 1992.
The report is the latest to offer advice to the President-elect. But today's recommendations carry more weight than most because Governor Cuomo has considerable influence among Democrats and because several of the report's authors are prominent advisers to Mr. Clinton. Members of the panel include two men mentioned as possible Treasury Secretaries: Robert E. Rubin, co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, and Felix G. Rohatyn, an investment banker at Lazard Freres.
 
More Activcism Is Urged
 The commission urged the Federal Government to take a more active approach to revive the economy than Mr. Clinton has indicated he will take as President. It called on him to spend $50 billion extra on public works this fiscal year, far more than the $20 billion extra he suggested in the campaign.
Moreover, the report urged the Federal Reserve to play a far more aggressive role in spurring the economy, saying it should pump $20 billion in capital into the nation's banks to make it easier for them to lend money. But Mr. Rubin dissented from that proposal, saying it would be undue Government interference in business. The report noted that not every member supported every proposal.
The commission suggested that Mr. Clinton adopt an investment tax credit and invest $22 billion more a year in education and job training than the current budget.
"America is failing to invest," it said. "We are neither matching the investment of our competitors nor making the amount of investments we once made. If we allow this dangerous 'investment gap' to continue, it will undercut the capacity and productivity of our factories and stunt future economic growth."
 
Less Caution on Pump-Priming
 The panel, called the Cuomo Commission on Competitiveness, was less cautious about stimulus than Mr. Clinton, who worries that any hint that he will embrace increased deficit spending will frighten financial markets and push up long-term interest rates.
The report, titled "America's Agenda: Rebuilding Economic Strength," called for a $3 billion public employment program to create jobs for the poor, a one-year temporary cut in Social Security payroll taxes and $10 billion in emergency revenue sharing for states to use for investments in highways and other infrastructure.
"A package to stimulate investment is critical to get us out of the cyclical downturn and to build our long-term strength," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a commission member and an economics professor at the University of California at Berkeley.
To rein in the deficit, the commission proposed deeper cuts in the Pentagon budget than Mr. Clinton has suggested, raising income taxes to 38 percent for households earning more than $200,000 from the present 31 percent, and increasing taxes on Social Security benefits to the wealthy.
 
More Public-Private Research
 One major thrust of the report was for greater cooperation between government and business in numerous areas, including research and in building sophisticated technologies like high-speed rail.
The 28-member commission made several recommendations that Mr. Clinton has also proposed, including reducing capital gains taxes for investments in new businesses, placing a cap on health-care spending and establishing a manufacturing extension service that would help small businesses obtain new technologies. Like the President-elect, the Commission supports far greater spending for Head Start and job training.
This June, Mr. Cuomo surprised Mr. Clinton with a unilateral announcement that he had persuaded the Arkansas Governor to outline a legislative agenda in cooperation with the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate. The idea was for Mr. Clinton to show that he could end Washington's gridlock. Later in the campaign, however, Mr. Clinton strained to keep his distance from Capitol Hill.
The panel today called for Washington to work far more aggressively with other industrial nations to end the global slump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TAX LAW (61%); GOVERNORS (58%); RESEARCH REPORTS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



556 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: New York Slips in Medical Research, Study Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

 BODY:
New York City's competitiveness in biomedical research -- a segment of the health-care industry that provides thousands of highly paid, highly skilled jobs -- is eroding at a worrisome pace, according to a new study and government and private experts.
New York is still a national leader in the field, with private nonprofit medical schools and hospitals like Mount Sinai, New York Hospital, Albert Einstein and Montefiore and those at Columbia, New York University and Rockefeller University. 
 But the study found that the city's share of Federal money for medical research is shrinking. In addition, New York City is not attracting many private biotechnology companies, which in other regions are a growing source of research money though cooperative and licensing arrangements with hospitals and universities.
From 1987 to 1990, the metropolitan region's share of all grant money from the two main Federal sources fell from 9.7 percent to 9.1 percent, largely because the city's share slipped from 8.1 percent to 7.3 percent. While the actual dollar amount of the Federal grants to New York City rose during that period, to a total of $517 million, the shrinking share of the pie meant that by 1990 the Boston area surpassed the New York region as the top recipient of this Federal money.
As a result, the city's top-tier position in this type of research could be lost, the study says.
"That would take a decade, but it would take a decade to put anything meaningful in place to stem the tide," said John W. Rowe, president of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital and chairman of the group that commissioned the report. "This study should be an alarm both for leaders in the medical-research and health-care fields and for public officials."
The study was conducted for the New York Academy of Medicine's Commission on Biomedical Research and Development, a group formed in 1991 by research institutions, companies and state and local officials. The commission is exploring ways to enhance the city's competitiveness in biomedical research.
The study emphasizes the economic importance of biomedical research to metropolitan New York: It is directly or indirectly responsible for nearly 32,600 jobs, including 11,500 in research, and more than $2.3 billion in economic activity.
Barry F. Sullivan, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, echoed the concerns of the study and said the city was working on a strategy to help strengthen the sector. But he also contended that the ivory-tower attitude at medical centers, as well as government policies, are to blame for the sector's woes. "We've got great brains, great research going on and we don't translate it well into business and then into jobs in New York," he said.
Long Island, which has three times the number of biotechnology companies that New York City has, seems to be doing a much better job.
Commission members insist that aid from the state and New York City governments will be needed to strengthen the biomedical sector. The medical centers -- as well as biotechnology companies -- want financial help to build laboratories and offices, buy equipment and provide training and affordable housing for staff. They also want to create a new public agency to help new companies through the governmental maze.
Dr. Rowe said the city's institutions have been much less successful than those in San Francisco and Boston in obtaining money from an increasingly important source: biotechnology companies. Given the size of the city's research base, there are few established biotechnology companies with laboratories in the city: only 6 to 10. Industry of all kinds provided a scant 5 percent of the institutions' research money last year.
 
Share of N.I.H. Grants Falls
 The commission's study examined the two main types of Federal financing for biomedical research: grants from the National Institutes of Health and from the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration. New York City's slumping performance in winning grants from the National Institutes of Health is especially worrisome because it indicates a decline in competitiveness. The city's share of N.I.H. grants fell to 6.8 percent in the year that ended Sept. 30, 1991, from 9.7 percent in 1980 and 10.4 percent in 1970.
Besides accounting for the vast majority of Federal research money, N.I.H. grants, unlike other types of Federal financing, are based mainly on competition among institutions, including a peer review.
Had metropolitan New York maintained its share of N.I.H. grants in the 1987-90 period, there would have been an additional 1,730 jobs in the city and 1,600 in the region in 1990, according to the study, which was conducted by Nancy Aries, a professor of public administration at Baruch College, and Elliott D. Sclar, a professor of urban planning at Columbia.
 
Need for Laboratory Space
 "If you want to be surrounded by first-rate scientists, you can now find that in New York, but it is not clear that you will a decade from now," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of New York University's Urban Research Center and an expert on the regional economy.
Commission members say one reason for the weakening of New York City's competitive position is inadequate laboratory space.
"Institutions in town have not developed new research space and facilities over the last 15 years at nearly the rate of Boston, Baltimore, San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco or even Birmingham, Ala.," Dr. Rowe said. "We are capital-starved."
The causes most often cited by medical centers include reductions in government financial support for research dating to the state and city fiscal crises of the 1970's; state restrictions on health-care reimbursements that were somewhat eased in 1990; the rising burden of caring for the poor, and the difficulty and high cost of building in the city.
Some executives of biotechnology companies say there is plenty of available space in Manhattan -- at old factories, for example. But while rents for it are low, the cost of turning it into laboratories makes it uneconomic, some say. They point to Long Island, whose biotechnology industry is three times the size of New York City's and growing faster, as an example of what the city needs to do.
Last month, the State University of New York at Stony Brook expanded its so-called incubator space for new high-technology companies, when it opened a 40,000-square-foot building. There is also a state research center for biotechnology at Stony Brook for fostering cooperation between companies and the university.
Institutions and the Federal, state and local governments are trying to expand research space in New York City. A $200 million biotechnology center at New York University is scheduled to open by next fall. Columbia just dedicated its $10 million Irving Center for Clinical Research and the university, along with the state and city governments, is financing a $30 million biotechnology incubator near Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan. Construction is scheduled to begin next spring.
But New York City's reputation as a tough place to live and work -- deserved or not -- also appears to be making it more difficult for research institutions to attract top-notch scientists, according to a survey conducted for the commission.
 
Barriers Remain
 Some scientists have also been discouraged by rules at their institutions that restrict the scientists' involvement in profit-making commercial ventures. As a result, some of the research centers are loosening those restrictions.
Some institutions now will exchange technology for an equity stake in a biotechnology company. Several are making it easier and more affordable for these companies to gain access to their scientists and labs and to use their hospitals for clinical tests. And institutions like Mount Sinai, N.Y.U. and Rockefeller University have hired specialists in commercializing discoveries.
The hope is these steps will make it easier for institutions to attract leading scientists who want to benefit financially from their discoveries and will accelerate the development of the city's biotechnology industry.
But barriers remain. And some wonder whether New York can catch up to places like San Francisco and Boston, which already have an abundant supply of technicians, scientists and laboratory space for start-up companies. Indeed, several start-up companies are using technology from New York University or Mount Sinai have chosen or intend to choose the Boston or San Francisco areas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. John W. Rowe is chairman of a group that commissioned a report that concluded that New York City's competitiveness in biomedical research is eroding. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Grpah: "NEW YORK MEDICAL SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS: Getting Research Funds"
 
Estimated total (year ending Sept. 30, 1991): $857 million
 
Federal Funds: 71%
Foundations/Contributions: 15%
Industry: 6%
Internally generated: 5%
Local Government: 1%
State Government: 1%
Other: 2%
 
(Source: Report by Nancy Aries, professor of public administration at Baruch College, and Elliott D. Sclar, professor of urban planning at Columbia University, for the Commission on Biomedical Research and Development.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ACADEMY OF MEDICINE BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH&DEVELOPMENT (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ACADEMY OF MEDICINE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; FEDERAL AID (US); CORPORATIONS; FEDERAL AID (US) MEDICAL RESEARCH (94%); HOSPITALS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; ARIES, NANCY (PROF); SCLAR, ELLIOTT (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



557 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
CHANGES ORDERED IN POLICE MONITORING
Stung by an avalanche of criticism over police corruption and apparently flawed controls for rooting it out, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly has ordered sweeping changes in his department's structure and methods for investigating and exposing corrupt officers. As part of the plan, Mr. Kelly said the Internal Affairs Division, the department's main anti-corruption unit, would be transformed into a full bureau, equivalent in the hierarchy to patrol forces and detectives. A1.
 
SHOWDOWN OVER SCHOOL CURRICULUM
In another round in their battle over whether to teach children about homosexuals, Schools Chancellor Joseph Fernandez has told a defiant Queens school board that its anti-bias curriculum still does not teach youngsters to respect gay people. He says he will send an emissary from his office to help the local board comply. B3.
 

AFTER A FIRE, CONCERN ABOUT CHEMICALS
City environmental officials have ordered the removal of a large stock of chemicals from a Brooklyn warehouse that was destroyed in a suspicious, five-alarm fire Sunday night. But they say the chemicals were secure in drums, not flammable or especially toxic, and posed no hazard to the surrounding Bushwick neighborhood. B3.
 
THE ART OF CONSENSUS
As the City Council continues to review Donald Trump's plans for a huge development on the Upper West Side, it has become clear that Mr. Trump still faces significant hurdles but enjoys a strong current of support among many members who see any large development in tough economic times as welcome news. B4.
 
REGION
 
SETTLEMENT IN AVIANCA CRASH
In its first public acknowledgement of any liability for the Avianca Airlines crash on Long Island that killed 73 people in 1990, the Federal Government has joined Avianca in a preliminary out-of-court settlement intended to apportion financial responsibility in the crash. Lawyers involved in the case say the settlement is important because in the past, the Federal Government has generally argued that it is not a party to lawsuits stemming from air crashes, even though most of the nation's air traffic controllers are Federal employees. B6.
 
FOUR DEFENSE LAWYERS, FOUR ANGLES
Although the four defense lawyers in the Glen Ridge sex assault trial are working as a team, when they take on prosecution witnesses, each attacks from a different angle. For the jury, that means that cross examination by the defense drones on, burying in a sea of words the points and images that prosecutors have elicited from the witnesses. And some defense themes, principally the young woman's sexual past, have become drumbeats before the jury. B6.
 
THE POWER OF THE AIRWAVES
Stunned by an outpouring of support for the New Jersey Network's preservation as the voice of the state and the realization that turning it over to another operator would be fiscally unsound, the New Jersey Assembly has voted overwhelmingly to scuttle a plan to abandon the television system and has restored most of its financing. B7.
 
Our Towns by Andrew Malcolm B6

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Inflation in the Region" shows the month-to-month change in consumer prices in New York City and 21 nearby counties from '90-'92. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AVIANCA AIRLINES (73%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CURRICULA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); WITNESSES (89%); LAWYERS (86%); JURY TRIALS (86%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); CITIES (73%); FIRES (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); AIRLINES (68%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (67%); TESTIMONY (67%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (65%); LITIGATION (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (63%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



558 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Clinton Faces Deflation Worries

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
GLEAMING, frostless refrigerators are a staple in millions of American homes. So are modern cooking ranges, dishwashers and air-conditioners. Yet the prices of these ubiquitous household appliances have been falling since 1989, reversing a decades-old trend toward higher prices -- and creating one of the pockets of deflation that keep appearing in these hard times.
Deflation can be dangerous. Nothing so characterized the Great Depression as the phenomenon of falling prices, falling real estate values and falling wages, snowballing across the nation. The pockets of deflation that exist today are only a shadow of that 1930's experience, and almost certain to remain so. But they are helping to gradually reshape the national outlook. 
 "There has been a certain resurgence in fond memories of inflation," according to Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's Consumer Research Center, whose polls go back to the late 1940's, the last period of noticeable deflation. "Our surveys show that the kind of animosity that we have had toward inflation in the past decade is weakening at the edges. People are starting to associate more inflation with more jobs and greater wealth."
That association might be helpful to President-elect Bill Clinton. His prescription for reviving the economy involves more spending on public works projects and tax credits to encourage companies to invest in machinery. Both are steps that in the past have increased the Federal deficit. Deficit spending, in turn, often increases inflation -- a no-longer-so-unhappy prospect, if the polls are accurate.
Whatever the case, deflation is certainly a discussion topic in the Clinton camp, Derek Shearer, an adviser to the President-elect, said. Because some prices have fallen, the nation's annual inflation has been a very mild 3 percent or less in recent months. "Business people that we deal with bring up deflation all the time," Mr. Shearer said.
Presumably, these business people include manufacturers of steel, paper, chemicals, oilfield equipment, aluminum, copper, printed cotton cloth and shipping cartons. All have suffered from falling prices since the late 1980's, according to the Labor Department, which tracks price changes. Even car manufacturers, which always seem to raise prices, have gotten a whiff of deflation in new car prices over the last 12 months.
In some cases, such as chemicals and paper, prices rose sharply until 1989 because demand exceeded supply and, to fill all the orders, plants operated at full capacity. But as these industries opened new plants, the United States economy fell into the long period of recession and slow growth that still endures. As demand has evaporated, the scramble for orders to keep the new plants busy has forced down prices, and as prices have fallen the companies have cut costs -- through layoffs, staff attrition and wage freezes.
Similar labor cost-cutting is common in the home appliance industry, although deflation there has different causes. Five major manufacturers compete for sales at a time when the weak economy has curtailed home construction and also home remodeling, once major sources of sales.
"We have become pretty much a replacement industry," Marian Stamos, a representative of the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, said. "And people nowadays resist replacing their appliances until repairs become too expensive."
The most dangerous deflation involves real estate values -- primarily office buildings where high vacancy rates have driven down rents and building values. Unable to repay loans, many building owners defaulted. Similarly, deflation has made many families reluctant to keep up mortgage payments. Why pay off a $130,000 mortgage to own a house whose resale value has declined to, say, $115,000 from $145,000? And, in fact, mortgage defaults have risen in the Northeast and in California, where home price deflation has been greatest.
Such defaults in the 1930's brought on bank failures that wiped out the savings deposits of many Americans. Wages also fell, making loan payments ever harder to pay. To raise cash, there was panic selling of homes and businesses, and that made prices fall even more. Deflation spread.
None of these things are happening now. Wages are stagnant, but for most Americans they are not falling. More important, deposit insurance, bank bailouts and other Federal programs have made the Government, in effect, the custodian of buildings and other assets that in the 1930's were so hurriedly sold.
But deflation, confined as it is today, clearly has delayed a recovery. Falling prices destroy wealth and prompt companies and consumers to cut back. "The mandate that the Clinton Administration has," said Donald Hilty, a Chrysler Corporation economist, "is to stop deflation."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; PUBLIC WORKS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); PLANT CAPACITY (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); LAYOFFS (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); COTTON FABRICS (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



559 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Trump's Riverside West Plan Appears to Be Gaining Favor

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
As the City Council continues to review Donald J. Trump's plans for a huge development on the Upper West Side, it has become clear that Mr. Trump still faces significant hurdles but enjoys a strong current of support among many members who see any large development in tough economic times as welcome news.
Mr. Trump will have to make some concessions in the $3 billion Riverside South project to win Council approval, Council aides said. Council members have raised questions about whether the city's sewage plant in western Harlem can absorb the 1.3 million gallons of sewage the project will produce each day. Some advocated asking the developer to build a small plant on the 56-acre site, a requirement Mr. Trump insists would kill the project.
 
'Movement for Jobs'
 Influential lawmakers are also seeking a public authority to oversee construction of the office and apartment complex, which is expected to take more than 10 years, as well as the creation of a public entity to manage the park, which will be built inside the development. 
 But under most of these worries ran the current of support, especially among members outside of Manhattan. Council leaders said they expect to reach a compromise with Mr. Trump on most of the sticking points before the full Council must vote on the plan on Dec. 17.
"My sense of the moment is that there is a desire to see a movement for jobs in the city," Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey of Queens said Friday.
 
10,000 More People
 If approved, the project would generate, on average, nearly 2,700 construction jobs a year at a time when the real-estate industry is moribund. Mr. Trump plans to build two office towers of up to 25 stories and a necklace of 16 apartment buildings between 18 and 49 stories on a gentle curve along the Hudson River. The West Side Highway would be moved inland to follow the curves of the buildings and would run under a new extension of Riverside Drive. The site stretches along the Hudson from 59th Street to 72d Street -- the site of the old Penn Central Rail Yard.
With nearly 7.9 million square feet of commercial and residential space, the project would increase the population of the area by 10,000 people, who would live in 5,700 apartments. Along the river a park of 21.5 acres would be built.
Gaining approval from the Council -- the final step in the review process -- is always a game of satisfying the needs of certain members in crucial positions, and the project's future hinges on whether Mr. Trump can give those members what they want without hurting the development's economic viability, opponents of the project and political strategists said.
One pivotal member is C. Virginia Fields of Harlem, the chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Permits, Dispositions and Concessions, which was reviewing the project yesterday. Ms. Fields represents the neighborhood that has been most affected by odor problems at the North River Waste Water Treatment Plant, which is where the Riverside South sewage would flow.
The Harlem Council member has said she would support the project only if Mr. Trump builds a sewage plant on the site. "There are major problems with that sewage plant and it has not been fixed and now we are talking about exacerbating the problem," she said Friday.
But the city's Environmental Protection Commissioner, Albert F. Appleton, testified yesterday that the plant could easily absorb the extra sewage because the city's water-conservation program has significantly reduced the flow coming into the sewage tanks and will save far more water over the next 10 years.
Stanley E. Michels, who represents upper Manhattan, grilled Mr. Appleton during the hearing until the commissioner acknowledged that he could not guarantee that the water-conservation steps the city was taking would solve the odor problem.
Mr. Trump threatened to abandon the project should the Council insist on a sewage plant within the complex. "It's a total deal breaker," he said yesterday.
Another pivotal lawmaker is the chairwoman of the Land Use Committee, June M. Eisland of the Bronx. Ms. Eisland, whose committee must approve the project before the Council takes it up, has made it clear she will not support the Trump project unless a public authority is established to oversee its construction.
Ms. Eisland is also angling for stronger assurances that Mr. Trump will contribute $7 million in the early years of the project toward the construction of rail yards along the Harlem River in the Bronx.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MANHATTAN COUNCIL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANHATTAN COUNCIL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RIVERSIDE SOUTH PROJECT (NYC); BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; CITY COUNCILS CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR DONALD TRUMP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



560 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
A Good Deed With Its Own Epilogue

BYLINE: By Andrew H. Malcolm

DATELINE: POUND RIDGE , N.Y.

 BODY:
IT seems to have started with a Russian massacre that followed a dispute over ownership of a bunch of dead otters. Then, 208 years later, came a dinner party in Boston. Nancy Freiheit, a teacher from here, was sitting next to David Brown, a lawyer from Hartford who is intrigued by archeology.
Suddenly, there's a flurry of activity in the basement over at the Hiram Halle Library in this affluent rural Westchester hamlet. The next thing this mail pilot up in Alaska knows, he's got so many heavy boxes for one isolated fishing village. But Emily Capjohn is delighted. 
 This story will never make the front pages or the evening news ("This just in: Authorities are puzzled by an unidentified band of adults roaming the suburbs doing selfless things for distant people they'll never see because it makes everybody feel fine for a few moments and might also cause some lasting good, although no one is certain. Film at 11.")
Now, reconstructing a good deed, just for fun, is, surprisingly, sometimes as difficult as tracking down a culprit. Oh, that! everybody says. Well, that's just something that happened, you know, like constructive spontaneous combustion. Every finger points at somebody else. Nobody saw anything unusual. Nobody did anything unusual. Why are you asking all these questions?
Maybe in the end that's what we should remember now and then; that amid all the fearful finger-pointing, the frustrated shouting and the useless hand-wringing about all the things wrong around us, there's usually a whole lot of good going on quietly, too.
Anyway, here's what we've dug up: In 1784, according to Czarist documents, the Russians arrived, the Russians arrived, by Old Harbor, Alaska, an isolated island hamlet nearly 300 miles southwest of what became Anchorage.
The Russians thought that because of their large guns they should have ownership of a treasure trove of furs there. The natives disagreed, with their spears. Hundreds of natives died. In the eloquent oral tradition of northern peoples, the story has been passed down over 11 generations.
Now, the local native association is financing a Roots-type exploration of the massacre site. One volunteer last summer was Mr. Brown, a 49-year-old native of suburban Chicago who now lives in suburban Hartford. For the last two years he's been so fascinated by archeology and Alaska that he's read nearly 20 books.
That's what you do in his written culture when you want to learn. You read a book. The Browns often take their two children to the local library, where the librarian treats the youngsters' interests and curiosity with the utmost seriousness, as if reading provides individual empowerment.
One night in Old Harbor Mr. Brown was looking for a good book. He sought directions to the library. Well, they said, actually, there isn't one. Back in '64 the tidal wave washed everything away. Then, 15 years later a fire destroyed the new one.
Life in Old Harbor (Population 300 to 350, depending on the tides, migrating fish and the economy) is still based on harvesting natural resources. Virtually everyone has something to do with fishing and the sea, which, with all roads ending at the town limits, remains the main highway to anywhere. But Kodiak city is only seven hours by boat.
Rick Berns, the part-time Mayor and fisherman, said Old Harbor had a library room ready near the health clinic, but no money for books.
Since his return, Mr. Brown has hustled good books big-time. He told Mrs. Freiheit who told Marilyn Tinter, the library director here. "It's hard to imagine a community without a library," she said. Mrs. Tinter oversees a book sale every two months when volunteers like Jackie Rodney, Gloria Smith and Ginny Powers peddle surplus and donated books. Edith Waters, who is 93, guards the till ($804 last weekend). It all helps an institution that gets only 28 percent of its $193,000 budget from government.
One afternoon Mrs. Freiheit and Mrs. Tinter rummaged through the storage room. That night Mrs. Freiheit weighed books on her bathroom scale. The next morning three boxes -- 170 pounds of words, maps, history, photos, stories and dreams -- left for ZIP code 99643. The book-rate: $48.18.
"Books," says Mr. Brown, "are wonderful symbols. So intimate and personal -- and cheap! -- to share." He thinks the lives of children will be touched by these very books. And perhaps such book-sharing among strangers will prove contagious, touching more little lives and recreating the warmth Mr. Brown feels on these chilly nights.
In Old Harbor, where it's down to 20 these days, Ms. Capjohn, the new librarian, actually has something to catalogue now. She reports big boxes of books have begun arriving. "We appreciate it so much," she says. "They're just wonderful. Please tell everyone."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OLD HARBOR (ALASKA) UNITED STATES (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); LIBRARIES (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); HISTORY (68%); 

PERSON: BROWN, DAVID (LEGAL HISTORIAN); MALCOLM, ANDREW H NANCY FREIHEIT (72%); MARILYN TINTER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



561 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Oil Prices Stage a Recovery As Colder Weather Is Seen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil futures prices snapped back yesterday, erasing last week's losses in a rally prompted in part by expectations that colder weather will raise heating oil demand.
In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, light sweet crude oil for December delivery rose 29 cents, to $20.37 a barrel; December heating oil surged 1.07 cents, to 58.9 cents a gallon; December unleaded gasoline jumped 1.25 cents, to 54.86 cents a gallon, and December natural gas fell 1.2 cents, to $2.411 for 1,000 cubic feet. 
 "We're beginning to see renewed interest in heating oil as we approach this colder weather," said Gerald Samuels, managing director in Los Angeles of ARB Oil Inc., a New York-based energy trading company.
Crude oil had dropped more than $2 a barrel and heating oil had fallen about 9 cents a gallon since Oct. 9 on signs of increased crude production by OPEC, despite the sluggish world economy.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is scheduled to meet next week. Oil prices are likely to rise if the organization agrees to trim its output, so this would be the week for speculators to try to push crude prices down to find the market's bottom, Mr. Samuels said.
Coffee futures soared on New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange on news that Brazil, the world's largest producer, was moving closer to a plan for an orderly release of stockpiled coffee onto its internal market.
Coffee for December delivery leaped 3.3 cents, to 72.5 cents a pound.
Wheat futures prices rose to a five-month high on the Chicago Board of Trade as the Bush Administration pressed ahead with its aggressive program to subsidize exports of the grain. Other grain and soybean futures retreated amid profit taking after last week's across-the-board gains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); FUTURES (93%); HEATING OIL (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); GASOLINE (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



562 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: October Output Rose 0.3%, Reversing Summer Decline

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
After a slump last summer, industrial production perked up in October, helped by a large gain in light-truck manufacturing, the Federal Reserve said today.
Output at factories, mines and utilities rose a modest three-tenths of a percent last month, only the second increase in five months. Output had fallen two-tenths of a percent in September and three-tenths of a percent in August. 
 In another positive sign, the Commerce Department said business inventories were up only slightly in September after rising a revised two-tenths of a percent in August. The August figure was initially reported as a gain of three-tenths of a percent. Stocks of goods held by businesses in September stood at $837.31 billion, compared with $836.97 billion in August. Business sales jumped 1.3 percent, reversing a 1.3 percent decline in August.
 
No Shift Toward Hiring
 The combination of rising sales and flat inventories bodes well for factory production, economists said. But they cautioned that the figures indicated that industrial growth was still far from strong.
The industrial sector "has to be considered feeble," said Robert G. Dederick, an economist at the the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "Gains of this size are not adequate to bring us employment gains in manufacturing."
Factories laid off 56,000 workers in October, but the workweek and overtime hours for existing employees increased. If the economy continues to improve, factories will be pressed to start rehiring -- but the question is when.
Some analysts were disappointed that much of October's rise in production was in light trucks, which were assembled at an annual rate of 4.4 million units, up from 3.8 million the month before. Automobiles were assembled at an annual rate of 5.5 million, unchanged from September.
Excluding autos and trucks, overall industrial production rose just a tenth of a percent.
Manufacturing in October rose three-tenths of a percent. A decline of five-tenths of a percent in output by utilities offset an increase of five-tenths of a percent in mining, which includes oil and gas production.
Within manufacturing, the output of durable goods -- big ticket items expected to last three years or more -- rose seven-tenths of a percent. Areas showing gains besides light trucks included computers and furniture. Appliance production fell.
Nondurable goods were unchanged over all. The weak points were chemicals, rubber, plastic products and textiles. The production of petroleum products rose.
 
Few Inflation Concerns
 The various changes left the Fed's index of industrial production at 109 percent of its 1987 base, only six-tenths of a percent higher than a year ago.
October's production gain caused a small increase in the operating rate at industrial concerns. It rose from 78.4 percent of capacity in September to 78.5 percent last month. The rate was far below the 85 percent level that economists say often means an increase in inflation.
In a third report today, the National Association of Realtors said the ability of the typical American family to purchase a home jumped in the third quarter to the highest level in 18 years. The trade group's affordable housing index rose from 119.4 to 127, meaning the typical family had 127 percent of the income needed to purchase a median-priced home.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Industrial Production" tracks index of total industrial production, monthly, since May, 1991. (Source: Commerce Department); "Capacity Utilization" tracks total output as a percentage of capacity, monthly, since May, 1991. (Source: Federal Reserve Board); "Inventory-Sales Ratio" tracks total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, monthly, since April, 1991. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); OVERTIME (70%); WORK WEEK (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



563 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts Renewed Gains On Stronger Economic Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar resumed its rally yesterday, rising on the heels of fresh reports pointing toward a reviving American economy.
Gold prices declined in domestic trading after rising overseas. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $333.90 an ounce, off $1.40 from Friday. The Republic National Bank said gold slid $1.20, to a late bid of $334.50. 
 Analysts said the dollar's advance began late Friday after the Government reported the nation's money supply had expanded in the recent week. An increase in money supply tends to portend a strengthening economy.
Dollar-buying was strong when foreign markets opened yesterday and it carried through when trading shifted to the United States.
The dollar was supported by a report showing industrial production rose three-tenths of 1 percent in October after slumping through much of the summer. A separate and equally favorable report showed business sales rose in September and the backlog of unsold inventories was unchanged.
"The dollar is resuming its uptrend," said Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J. "We've had some very good news -- money supply, industrial production. The market was looking for it."
Among individual currencies, the Japanese yen was under pressure from speculation that Japan's monetary officials were about to reduce interest rates. In Britain, the pound was weak after comments by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Norman Lamont, that Britain must first have an economic recovery before it could rejoin the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to 124.25 Japanese yen from 123.84 yen at Friday's close. Later, in London, it rose to 124.80 yen. In New York the dollar settled at 124.70 yen, up from 124.05 yen on Friday.
In London, the pound fell to $1.5185, from $1.5510 late Friday. In New York, a pound cost $1.5245, down from $1.5505 on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.5915 German marks, up from 1.5725; 1.4365 Swiss francs, up from 1.4190; 5.2645 French francs, down from 5.3055; 1,357.00 Italian lire, up from 1,344.00, and 1.2713 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2644.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.5920 German marks, up from 1.5665; 1.4380 Swiss francs, up from 1.4135; 5.3615 French francs, up from 5.2815; 1.7891 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7615; 1,357.00 Italian lire, up from 1,338.50, and 1.2698 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2636.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $335.75 an ounce, from $334.40 late Friday. In Zurich, gold was up to $335.25 from $334.95. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold gained $2.67 to close at a bid of $336.92.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GERMAN MARK (75%); BRITISH POUND (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: NORMAN LAMONT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



564 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Fleet Down After Report

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I., Nov. 16

 BODY:
Shaes of Fleet Financial Group Inc. fell as much as 4.4 percent today after a CBS television broadcast reported charges that its mortgage lending practices in Georgia were intended to profit at the expense of minority homeowners.
"We take strong exception to their charge we actively seek to foreclose on mortgage holders," said Thomas Lavelle, a spokesman for the bank holding company. "Also, the charge we prey on lower-income people is simply untrue." 
 CBS reported the allegations Sunday on the "60 Minutes" news program. It interviewed homeowners and their lawyers who accuse Fleet of charging low-income customers exceptionally high interest rates on second-mortgage loans, controlling outside mortgage companies that canvassed minority areas for customers, and foreclosing on borrowers who missed even one payment.
Fleet faces two class-action lawsuits tied to the charges. The "60 Minutes" report said the suits had a total of more than 20,000 plaintiffs, and could cost Fleet $500 million to $1 billion.
Shares of Fleet opened today at $30.50, down $1.125, on the New York Stock Exchange and sank as low as $30.25 before rebounding. The stock closed at $31, down 62.5 cents, on volume of 454,100 shares.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (75%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP INC; CBS INC BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP INC; CBS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA UNITED STATES (75%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (75%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); HOUSING; MORTGAGES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US) MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LITIGATION (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAWYERS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



565 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: 'Cleaner' Dry Cleaning Test

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
"I would like to air some dirty laundry to the press," William K. Reilly, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, told reporters at a news conference today. And he meant it.
Mr. Reilly was the first Federal employee to drop off a few dirty clothes at a local dry cleaner that is participating in a test of a new cleaning method based on biodegradable soaps instead of the harmful chemicals normally used to dry-clean clothes. 
 In turning his blue suit over to agency officials, Mr. Reilly inaugurated a four-week experiment intended to cut down on the use of the standard dry-cleaning agent, per-chloroethylene, which is a hazardous air pollutant. The agency is sponsoring the experiment along with two trade groups, the Neighborhood Cleaners Association of New York and the International Fabricare Institute of Maryland.
The widespread use of perchloroethylene, or Perc as it is more commonly known, has contaminated underground water, apartments and restaurants situated next to dry cleaners. Perc residue also remains on clothes after they are cleaned.
The new process relies on heat, steam pressing, biodegradable soaps and water, said Ohad Jehassi, an economist with the environmental agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL FABRICARE INSTITUTE (56%); INTERNATIONAL FABRICARE INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL FABRICARE INSTITUTE (56%); INTERNATIONAL FABRICARE INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; PERCHLOROETHYLENE (PCE); DRY CLEANING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); CLEANERS (78%); HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM K REILLY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



566 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: A U.S. Spy Satellite May Be Sold Abroad

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
THE United Arab Emirates is shopping in the United States for a spy satellite, raising tough new questions about the intersection of economic and national security needs at a time when military contractors are hungry for work after the cold war.
The deal would have an American company make, launch and operate the orbiting spy craft for the emirates. Federal officials, who have wrestled with the proposal for a half year, is said to be bitterly divided on its merits and has not yet issued an export license. 
 "The dilemma," said John E. Pike, head of space policy at the Federation of American Scientists, a private Washington group, "is how to promote exports and American jobs without creating new military threats abroad. It's going to be one of the most challenging issues of the decade."
A Federal official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the Government was carefully considering the risks and benefits of the proposed sale, which might run to several hundred million dollars.
 
National Security Issue
 "There are a number of folks who are not opposed to this kind of thing in principle," the official said. "But it's situational. It depends on which country, the conditions of sale and a number of related factors bearing on the security of the United States."
Private experts said the bid by the emirates, reported yesterday by Space News, a weekly trade publication, and confirmed by Federal officials, was the first of its kind to be disclosed publicly.
Yesterday, an official at the emirates Embassy in Washington said he had "no information" about the spy-satellite sale.
As to why the emirates might want such a satellite, Dr. Peter D. Zimmerman, a reconnaissance expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a private group in Washington, said the nation might want to share the imagery with its Arab allies, but he judged it as having little direct military usefulness for the small nation.
Mr. Pike of the science federation agreed. "It probably comes down to a calculation of what is going to enhance their status more in the Arab world," he said, "buying another squadron of jet fighters or being the first kid on the block with a spy satellite."
One issue in the emirates' initiative, American experts say, is whether blocking the sale might simply send the oil-rich Persian Gulf nation shopping elsewhere, and whether it would be better to strike a deal that enabled the United States to retain some control over reconnaissance imagery produced by the spy craft.
 
Concerns About Deal
 But some military planners fear that any deal could eventually endanger the nation's security, both militarily and economically. The emirates, they say, might quietly sell the imagery to an American enemy or devote itself to monitoring oil refineries, tankers, and wells abound the globe in search of a marketing edge.
Space News, based in Springfield, Va., said that more than six months ago an unnamed American company applied for an export license for a new spy satellite on behalf of the emirates, throwing Federal intelligence and export officials into conflict. The proposed spacecraft, the publication said, would be able to resolve, or "see," objects on the ground about a meter, or three feet, in diameter.
By contrast, the most powerful commerical satellites in the world, made by the French, have a resolution of 10 meters. Moscow recently starting selling spy photographs that have two-meter resolution, one sample photograph showing cars in a Pentagon parking lot. The best American spy satellites are said to be able to see objects as small as a baseball, although such claims have been disputed.
Space News said Federal officials in the departments of State, Commerce and Defense, as well as the nation's intelligence agencies, were currently deadlocked on whether to give the proposed deal a go-ahead, and suggested that the dispute would probably be passed for resolution to the Clinton Administration.
"It's a first as far as I can tell," Dr. Zimmerman said in an interview.
"Now we have to decide whether it's a technology we want exported to other countries," he added. "My own feeling is that it isn't. The potential for use contrary to the interests of the Unites States is too high."
 
Worth Hundreds of Millions
 The commercial sale of spy satellites could open up a lucrative new market for American industry. Mr. Pike estimated that a one-meter spy satellite might sell for several hundred million dollars, including launching costs.
If the actual sale is approved and an export license granted, the Space News article said, quoting Federal officials, the two governments would negotiate a set of agreements "restricting the emirates' use of the satellite for intelligence purposes" and prohibiting the Persian Gulf nation from selling the data commercially.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ARAB SHIPPING CO (UASC) (92%); UNITED ARAB MATCH & CHIPBOARD CO (92%); UNITED ARAB INDUSTRIAL CO (92%); UNITED ARAB MOTORS CO LTD (92%); UNITED ARAB INVESTORS CO (92%); UNITED ARAB SHIPPING AGENCIES CO (92%); UNITED ARAB BANK (92%); AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (58%); WASHINGTON GROUP-ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION (57%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED ARAB EMIRATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); GULF STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: RECONNAISSANCE SATELLITES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ESPIONAGE (91%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); EXPORT PROMOTION (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); 

PERSON: JOHN E PIKE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



567 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Clues Etched in Bone Debunk Theory of a Plague's Spread

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
AMONG human bones from pre-Columbian America and Europe, scientists are finding distinctive scars, some like the patterns in worm-eaten wood, that could be decisive clues in one of the enduring mysteries of medical history: Where did syphilis originate, and how and why did it erupt with epidemic virulence in Europe at the end of the 15th century?
The latest clues are etched in bones discovered in the cemetery of an ancient Greek colony in southern Italy. These bones, and two other skeletons examined recently in England, could be the first unequivocal evidence of the presence of the organism causing syphilis in Europe before Columbus. 
 Strong circumstantial evidence had long placed the blame mainly on the crews of Columbus and other explorers of the New World. Since the first clearly recognized cases in Europe occurred soon after their return, it was assumed that they had contracted the infection through sexual intercourse with American Indians and then spread it back home.
If the Columbian connection is correct, this was a kind of rough justice, considering the terrible toll European diseases like smallpox, measles and influenza took on the immunologically defenseless Indians.
An opposing hypothesis holds that syphilis originated in early human evolution and so existed in some form in populations worldwide. In this view, the venereal disease had been in Europe all along, but was perhaps confused with leprosy. A convergence of social and economic trends, more than returning sailors, presumably accounted for the spreading European epidemic by 1500.
The weight of evidence in recent years had tipped the scales in favor of the Columbian hypothesis. Examination of thousands of skeletons from prehistoric burial grounds in the Americas revealed the marks of bone lesions showing that the infection causing syphilis must have been common and widespread there long before 1492, though it probably manifested itself in milder, non-venereal forms like yaws.
By contrast, similar research on European skeletons, even those from leper cemeteries, had failed to turn up any unambiguous traces there of the disease before the return of Columbus.
But now the cemetery in southern Italy has produced evidence that is certain to re-ignite the controversy. Specialists in the science of paleopathology said many of the skulls, nasal and leg bones and teeth showed the characteristic ravages from the class of bacteria called treponemes, which when transmitted sexually leads to syphilis.
The cemetery, discovered in an olive grove near the ancient town of Metaponto, occupied by Greeks from 600 to 250 B.C., was excavated by Dr. Joseph C. Carter, a classical archeologist at the University of Texas at Austin. Analysis of what the skeletons reveal of the colony's health was conducted by Dr. Maciej Henneberg and Renata Henneberg, anatomists at the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
In a report published last week in the journal National Geographic Research & Exploration, the scientists said their results contradicted the arguments in favor of the New World origins of syphilis and supported the pre-Columbian hypothesis. The initial reaction of anthropologists was one of surprise and caution.
"I would need to see for myself what they are describing," said Dr. John W. Verano, an anthropologist at the Smithsonian Institution.
Dr. George J. Armelagos, a physical anthropologist at the University of Florida in Gainesville and a leading proponent of the Columbian hypothesis, praised the Hennebergs as careful paleopathologists. "It is a puzzlement," he said of their findings.
But Dr. Donald J. Ortner, another Smithsonian anthropologist, who has just returned from examining two skeletons in England, said the Hennebergs' results should not be surprising in view of what he had found. He said the two skeletons, dating from before 1420, contained the kind of bone damage caused by treponematosis, a group of allied diseases including syphilis and yaws. Some of the skull lesions are "classic syphilis" evidence, he said.
"More and more evidence is coming in indicating that treponematosis was in Europe before Columbus," Dr. Ortner said yesterday. "I've argued for a long time that it ought to be in Europe, and it was just a matter of finding it."
 
Yaws and Syphilis
 The mystery has been complicated by the fact that the treponomal organism that causes syphilis is indistinguishable from the organisms responsible for yaws. The same bacterium somehow causes different symptoms depending on how it is acquired. Only syphilis is sexually transmitted. Yaws is a chronic childhood infection spread by casual contact and causing long-lasting sores on the legs and arms. In time this infection attacks the bones, leaving scars similar to those from syphilis.
Though most attention has focused on the history of syphilis, Dr. Ortner said, "A far more interesting question is why what appears to be a single organism results in different pathogenic processes."
The case for the American origin of treponematosis gained wide backing four years ago when Dr. Armelagos and Dr. Brenda J. Baker, now at Tufts University, published the results of an extensive survey of skeletal material from both the New World and the Old. They cited research showing unambiguous cases of treponemal infection in South American bones from 3,000 to 4,000 years old. By at least A.D. 600, the disease was widespread in North America. At the time, no similar skeletal evidence had been identified anywhere in Europe.
 
A Possible Reconstruction
 So Dr. Armelagos developed a possible reconstruction of what happened. If the disease in America was mainly contracted in childhood, the people would be immune to it by the time they reached sexual maturity. They would not have passed it to each other during sexual intercourse, but could have with Europeans having no such immunity.
This could explain the outbreak of syphilis in Naples in 1495 among the mercenary soldiers of Charles VIII of France. Some of those soldiers were presumably Spanish who carried the infection brought home by Columbus's men. Even then, the disease's origins were disputed, the French calling it the Italian disease, others calling it the French disease. It reached all the way to India in 1497, borne by the Portuguese explorers, and soon was so prevalent in Europe that in France it was said that noblemen who did not carry syphilis were scarcely noble. Syphilis remained a notorious plague until the introduction of penicillin in the 1940's.
Dr. Alfred W. Crosby, a University of Texas historian and author of "The Columbian Exchange: The Biological Consequences of 1492," said most scholars tended to accept this Columbian hypothesis in which syphilis was "the only disease of significance" to be transmitted from America to Europe.
According to the pre-Columbian hypothesis, however, syphilis was already in Europe, probably misdiagnosed as leprosy. Even the biblical term "leprosy" could have referred to syphilis. King David suffered from shooting pains and his "loins are filled with a loathsome disease." He suspected Bathsheba.
 
272 Individuals Studied
 In this interpretation, the sudden outbreaks of syphilis at the end of the 15th century occurred because of increasing travel around the continent and papal edicts closing the leper asylums. Patients who might be carrying the syphilis infection were thus released, spreading the disease. Physicians also began to recognize syphilis as distinct from leprosy.
The cemetery at the Metaponto site may have tipped the scales back toward the pre-Columbian hypothesis. Dr. Carter said the cemetery's 320 virtually undisturbed burials were the "largest sampling of human skeletons in one place from the ancient Mediterranean" societies. Previous excavations in the region had concentrated on architectural ruins.
In their analysis of the remains of 272 individuals, the researchers said they found the clearest evidence to date of malaria in a classical population. Although artifacts suggest that Metaponto was a prosperous agricultural colony of Greeks, the people appeared to have been plagued with anemia and malnutrition. They were small of stature and at birth had a life expectancy of 32 years.
In literary accounts, Dr. Carter said, "Metaponto was famous for its medical school, the quality of its doctors, but archeology seems to contradict this." The researchers found several skeletons of people who had suffered severe bone fractures that had healed naturally without any apparent attempt to set them.
 
Early Malpractice Suit?
 These unset bones, the researchers concluded, could explain the curses inscribed on lead tablets in one tomb. The inscriptions denounce by name no less than 15 local doctors, just possibly an early medical malpractice suit being appealed to some higher court in the hereafter.
Among the skeletons the Hennebergs found 16 cases of thickening of the skull, a discorder associated with treponematous infections of long duration. In seven cases, these characteristics coincided with scars on long bones, also evidence pointing to treponematosis. The high frequency of tooth enamel defects, the scientists said, indicted that many of the people had become infected in the womb or in early childhood.
"We are sure of our findings," Dr. Henneberg said in an interview by telephone from South Africa. "But we cannot tell whether the infection was venereal or not, whether any of the cases were syphilis or something non-venereal like yaws."
Dr. Henneberg held out little hope of arriving at a more definitive diagnosis. The pits and eroded areas on the bones seem to be virtually the same for syphilis and yaws. The ultimate test, he said, would have to be provided by a direct immunochemical analysis of antigens extracted from the bone. Such tests are unlikely to succeed, he added, because in these diseases little antigen is present in the bones and what there is decomposes after death and during the centuries in the soil.
"As long as all we've got is bone deformations, I don't think we are getting anywhere in solving the origins of syphilis," a disappointed Dr. Crosby said. "I was hoping the molecular biologists were going to solve it for us."
Dr. Armelagos, however, plans to give it a try this winter in molecular biological tests on ancient bones from the Americas, where the scourge may -- or may not -- have originated.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Columbus-era sailors returning from the New World are often blamed for European syphilis. Recent discoveries in a pre-Columbian cemetery in Metaponto, Italy, suggest otherwise. Researchers open a tomb there. (National Geographic Research & Exploration) (pg. C8)
 
Map/Drawings: "Paths of Trade And Exploration: Paths of Disease Transmission"
 
New Discovery in Europe's Past
Although a consensus was developing that the origin of syphilis was in the Americas, a recent excavation of bones in a Greek cemetery at Metaponto in southern Italy suggests that the disease did afflict inhabitants of the Old World before Columbus, leaving telltale lesions on their skeletal remains. The bones include 16 skeletons with thickening of the skull, characteristic of infection of long standing with the bacteria that cause syphilis.
 
Confused diagnosis?
In medieval Europe, the symptoms and transmission of leprosy were inaccurately described and, some researhcers contend, many leprosy cases may have actually been syphilis. Thus the course of syphilis in Europe may have been camouflaged.
 
Epidemic in Europe
Increasing numbers of people living in cities and traveling and other demographic factors were kindling for the epidemic that erupted in Europe after Columbus returned. During 15th century wars, French and Neapolitan troops each branded the disease with the nationality of the enemy.
 
American Origins?
There is ample evidence that pre-Columbian Indians suffered from infection with bacteria called treponemes, which when transmitted sexually cause syphilis. But the evidence suggests that it was not a venereal disease, but a childhood illness, spread by casual contact, like yaws, so that by the time Indians reached sexual maturity, they already possessed immunity.
 
Map showing possible routes taken by Columbus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; WESTERN HEMISPHERE; NORTH AMERICA; SOUTH AMERICA; METAPONTO (ITALY) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (50%); 

SUBJECT: VENEREAL DISEASES; ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; GREEK CIVILIZATION SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CEMETERIES (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); LEPROSY (87%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); CLASSICS (77%); INFLUENZA (77%); MEASLES (77%); BACTERIA (77%); SMALLPOX (77%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); EVOLUTION THEORY (70%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE; COLUMBUS, CHRISTOPHER (1451-1506) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



568 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Still Needs a Prod

 BODY:
With an uptick here and a rosy look there, the economy gives faint signs of revival, raising sensible doubts. If things are looking up, should the new Clinton Administration continue to plan for a temporary burst of Federal stimulation? The answer, in a word, is yes; the signs of revival may be, in a word, false.
A year ago the economy was staggering along, threatening to plunge back into recession. Short-term spending hikes and tax cuts seemed like a sensible way to ignite recovery without worsening the long-term deficit. 
 As summer neared, unemployment mounted. With no relief in sight, many people started calling for stimulus, including Michael Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. Had President Bush listened, he might be looking forward to a second term.
That was then. But today the economy seems to display some faint pink signs of dawn. Growth during the third quarter, according to preliminary estimates, reached an annual rate of almost 3 percent. In October, retail sales rose at double-digit rates, and first-time jobless claims fell.
But the data are all murky, even deceptive. Take, for example, the surprising 3 percent growth estimate. The figure appears exaggerated, for technical reasons having to do with the way the Government corrects for inflation. Besides, consumers are unlikely to be sustaining their high recent spending, and businesses could be expected to reduce factory orders to work off sizable inventories.
As a rule of thumb, growth must exceed 4 percent for two years to knock even one point off the unemployment rate, now 7.5 percent. With a true 3 percent nowhere on the horizon, the need for stimulus endures.
There's no reason for Bill Clinton to be doctrinaire about it. If the fourth quarter shows a dramatic turnabout, he could slow down on his promised jobs program and go on to his long-term program without detour. But if this fourth quarter is, as most experts expect, disappointing, then he would continue to be wise to press Congress for a modest stimulus package.
His advisers are discussing a $60 billion package -- temporary spending hikes for accelerated infrastructure projects and temporary tax cuts on business investment. A package of that size, about 1 percent of economic output, poses no danger of over-igniting the economy or, because it is self-liquidating, running up the deficit.
The prudent course is to prepare Congress to pass a stimulus package, tied to long-term deficit reduction, immediately on its return in January. The need today, still, is to light the fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ELECTION ISSUES; FORECASTS; EDITORIALS; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); STATISTICS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RETAIL SALES (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



569 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Short-Term Stimulus? Long-Term Error.

SERIES: Bill's List

BYLINE: By Steven Rattner; Steven Rattner is a general partner of Lazard Freres & Company, investment bankers.

 BODY:
The country has just endured a wrenching recession, modest growth has resumed but employment remains stubbornly high. The nation rejects its President in favor of a voice for change. With inflation seemingly under control, the new occupant of the White House announces a formidable $30 billion program to stimulate the economy.
Sound familiar? That's what happened in 1976 when Jimmy Carter replaced Gerald Ford, with results that are still all too poignant. The parallels for Bill Clinton are clear. While our economy needs lots of attention, new Government spending or tax cuts should not be allowed to further increase the enormous budget deficit. Even as a Democrat, I can't justify more stimulus -- including lower interest rates -- on the basis of the economic news from Washington. 
 Despite much talk of America's collapsing economy, by virtually every statistic the recessionary decline ended in the first half of 1991 and the economy has been climbing ever so slowly since then. Pick almost any sign -- retail sales, industrial production, consumer debt, even the number of jobs -- and it's better than 18 months ago.
In the past several weeks, the number of new applicants for unemployment insurance dropped to the lowest level in more than two years, suggesting improvement in the labor market. The gross domestic product rose faster than expected in the third quarter; it's now above the pre-recession peak. Even bank lending and consumer confidence, two of the weakest indicators, are turning upward.
However pathetic America's economic performance during the past four years, we shouldn't confuse short-term solutions such as stimulus with long-term problems such as weak productivity and investment. Fiscal stimulus is like an efficacious medication with side effects. It often takes so long to enact, even with a new President, that it arrives just in time to help reignite inflation -- as it did for Jimmy Carter.
The prospect of fiscal stimulus already has the financial markets on edge; long-term rates, the surest barometer of inflationary fears, have gone up by a half percentage point in the past two months, a meaningful rise.
And even the most temporary additions to the budget deficit have a nasty habit of becoming permanent. Today's deficit, equal to more than 5 percent of economic activity, is two and a half times the level of the 1970's and more than five times the rate of the 1960's. While the fragility of the economy argues for not trying to shrink the deficit quickly (as Ross Perot would do), longer-term reduction will be unattainable if we don't hold the line now.
But digging in doesn't justify doing nothing. The budget and tax system need reform badly. Increasing taxes on the richest 2 percent -- an increase in the top rate to 36 percent from 31 percent and a 10 percent surtax for millionaires -- would raise $13 billion to $18 billion a year, according to Mr. Clinton's numbers. That money could, in turn, finance modest middle class tax cuts and a targeted investment tax credit to raise investment, currently at the lowest level in 30 years. Selected defense cuts -- such as not rebuilding Homestead Air Force Base in Florida, for an immediate saving of $500 million -- could pay for improvements in transportation, information and environmental facilities. Ideally, these trade-offs should rely on market forces rather than bigger Government -- more investment tax credits than federally funded research and development, for example.
But so long as the trend of modestly positive statistics continues, initiatives must remain trade-offs and not become add-ons. At recent press conferences, including yesterday's, Mr. Clinton has suggested programs to restart growth but has left unstated -- apparently deliberately -- the likely impact on the deficit.
To be sure, he faces risks in not attacking short-term problems; there's more than a passing chance that the economy will slide back, and if he is perceived as having done little, he's likely to slide with it. That's what did in George Bush. But for Bill Clinton, focusing on long-term economic problems like investment and productivity would be the true act of leadership.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); RETAIL SALES (52%); 

PERSON: RATTNER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) STEVEN RATTNER (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1992



570 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Social Workers: Targets in a Violent Society

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
A released convict, angered because his daughter was placed in foster care, pursued a social services worker to her farmhouse near Auburn, N.Y., last year and beat, bit and strangled her.
Last month in Watkins Glen, N.Y., a truck driver infuriated by child support payments killed four women working in a county welfare office and then turned his gun on himself. 
 And earlier this month in Danielson, Conn., in yet another attack on a social service worker, an auto mechanic embroiled in a custody battle shot and killed his 6-year-old daughter and badly wounded the caseworker supervising his visit with her.
Across the New York region and around the nation, experts say that social service workers are increasingly at risk of violent assault. At least eight workers have been slain by clients in five years.
Hundreds of others have been assaulted as they work the front lines between desperate clients and a government they believe has caused their problems or cannot solve them.
"We're constantly getting reports of violence," said Jordan Barab, who tracks working conditions in public offices for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. "Every time somebody gets killed, I get calls from around the country about social service workers getting beat up and attacked."
And workers fear that publicity about attacks will breed even more violence. In Baltimore, where a man enraged by delays in getting food stamps drew a butcher knife and killed a receptionist last year, callers have since threatened to "take out more of you social workers."
Ever since Jane Adams braved Chicago's tenements, social service workers have been at some risk, and until recently, there has been little awareness that the dangers were mounting. As a result, there has been no nationwide system for reporting attacks on them. But union officials, academics and other experts say the violence is increasing.
Most of the recent victims have been women, reflecting a larger epidemic of work-place violence against women. According to a recent study by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, the leading cause of "traumatic work-place death" for American women is homicide.
A number of reasons have been offered for the increase in violence. The ranks of those seeking public assistance have been swollen by mental patients released onto the streets in recent years. Clinic-based psychiatric social workers now routinely face clients who previously were confined to high-security mental hospitals.
Another cause is the changing nature of cases at welfare offices. Men who owe child-support payments are confronted by newly aggressive efforts to track them down. Social workers are being asked to deal with increasingly volatile issues in family disputes, particularly in child-abuse cases. Aggravating the problem is the recession, which has forced welfare cutbacks as need has grown.
"Social work gets more dangerous every year," said William Griffin, an adjunct professor of social work at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Mr. Griffin said he had been called in on about 75 assault cases around the country since he began counseling government agencies in 1985 about how to respond to such attacks.
 
'Yelling in the Wind'
 "Many incidents get little attention," Mr. Griffin said. "I'm one of the few people who is collecting this information, and sometimes I feel like I'm yelling in the wind."
In fact, others are beginning to document the violence.
A 1,400-worker division of Kentucky's social services bureaucracy reported 225 threats and physical attacks last year, including 15 in which victims required medical attention. In one recent incident, a father accused of sexual abuse brandished a .357 Magnum during a meeting with caseworkers. In another, an assailant with a shotgun took a worker hostage, said Richard Newman, a branch manager in Kentucky's human resources agency.
"Our people have been kicked with cowboy boots, threatened with Coke bottles, poked with umbrellas, bit on the ears, grabbed by the hair and smashed into desks," Mr. Newman said.
 
Small Towns, Too
 A California report documented 58 cases during 1990 in which workers were struck, stabbed, beaten, or shot and 16 other cases involving other forms of physical assault.
It is not just a big-city problem, as Watkins Glen learned when the four workers were shot to death on Oct. 15. Since then Sheriff Michael J. Maloney has stationed two deputies in the county building where the workers were shot to death. Sheriff Maloney said he had also received requests for protection at "other offices that deal with an irate public," including family court and the local tax assessor. Several other New York counties, including Cayuga, Chemung and Yates, have installed metal detectors and deployed additional deputies to guard social services offices since the October shootings.
In Yates County four days after the Watkins Glen killings, James T. Wallace, a father angered by efforts to collect child support, threatened to carry out a similar massacre.
"He implied that the same thing could happen in Yates County if people didn't leave him alone," said Ron Spike, the Yates County Sheriff. Mr. Wallace was arrested on Oct. 26, charged with aggravated harassment and released on $10,000 bond, Sheriff Spike said.
In Orange County, the impetus for increased security came in March, seven months before the Watkins Glen killings, when a client stabbed a caseworker, Linda Char, in the face and chest, said a county spokeswoman, Joanne Stricko. Ms. Char, who survived the attack, has continued her career.
A major factor heightening the danger has been the growing number of child-abuse complaints that social workers must investigate, as a result of a 1974 child protection law. The number of abuse reports nationwide has quadrupled from 669,000 in 1976 to 2,694,000 in 1991, according to statistics provided by the American Humane Association, a Denver-based group.
These investigations often require caseworkers to confront parents about abuses, and such cases can result in "an explosion of anger and energy," said Robert Van Marle, a social worker who was shot through the stomach and kidney in 1985 in Darby, Mont., by an indignant rancher he was questioning about reports that he had abused his 8-year-old daughter.
 
'When You Meddle'
 "People have less of a grip on who they are today, relative to traditional values, and they're more volatile," Mr. Van Marle said. "And when you meddle in family abuse questions, you're stirring up a hornet's nest."
Circumstances like these appear to have spurred the murder last year of Sabina Kulakowski, who worked for the Cayuga County, N.Y., social services department. After caseworkers investigated reports of violence and removed the 7-year-old daughter of Roy Brown to a foster home, Mr. Brown phoned county offices threatening to "spray" workers with Uzi rifle fire to "wipe everybody out."
The authorities taped the threats, and Mr. Brown was arrested and jailed for six months. Five days after his release in May 1991, Ms. Kulakowski, 49, the county's day care coordinator, was followed to her farm home and stabbed, strangled and beaten until her skull was crushed. Her murderer burned her house down.
The police matched human bite marks covering Ms. Kulakowski's body with Mr. Brown's jaw, and Mr. Brown was convicted of the killing in February. Sentenced to 25 years to life, he has appealed.
"It's difficult to imagine a more brutal murder," said James Vargason, the Cayuga County District Attorney, who prosecuted Mr. Brown. Though Ms. Kulakowski personally never had any dealings with Mr. Brown, Mr. Vargason concluded that Mr. Brown killed her as a way of taking revenge on the county bureaucracy.
A family dispute was behind the Nov. 2 shooting in Danielson, Conn., that left a 6-year-old girl dead and a caseworker, Joyce L. Lannan, 36, seriously wounded in the head. Diego M. Vas, a 40-year-old mechanic locked in a custody battle with the mother of his child, pulled a pistol during a court-ordered visit, shooting Ms. Lannan and his daughter, who died. Ms. Lannan was blinded in one eye in the attack.
Another factor contributing to the mounting violence has been the mass deinstitutionalization of mental patients, according to LeRoy G. Schultz, professor of social work at West Virginia University, in Morgantown.
 
An Obsession
 In February 1989, David Smith, a 26-year-old homeless Air Force veteran, charged into a Los Angeles County clinic and fatally stabbed his psychiatric social worker, Robbyn Panitch, 31 times with a knife.
Mr. Smith, who had been convicted in 1987 for assaulting his own mother, developed an obsession that Ms. Panitch, 36, was the Antichrist, and Ms. Panitch, fearing an assault, had ordered him committed for hospital evaluation. But the authorities -- who at the time were shutting down 13 county mental health centers and laying off hundreds of social workers because of budget cuts -- ordered Mr. Smith released days before the fatal attack.
Two months after Ms. Panitch's murder, another Los Angeles County psychiatric social worker, Shirley Ann Sauerwein, was stabbed five times by the mental patient she was counseling. She returned to work after being treated for a collapsed lung.
Edith Pollach, a colleague of Ms. Panitch, who recently retired as president of the local union that represented Los Angeles County psychiatric social workers, said budget cuts had greatly increased the perils of social work.
"Dangerous people are released because there is not enough money to confine hem," Ms. Pollach said.
Money troubles have also aggravated the dangers in other social service settings, as welfare clients, angered by cutbacks and delays in receiving public assistance, have become increasingly aggressive.
In June 1991, Arnold Bates, a 34-year-old food stamp applicant in a Baltimore welfare office, fatally stabbed a caseworker, Tanja Brown-O'Neil.
Ms. O'Neil's grieving co-workers were dismayed by the harsh public reaction to her death.
"We got no sympathy from the public on this," said Donna Edwards, president of Maryland's Social Services Employees Union, to which Ms. O'Neil belonged. "We got callers who said: 'We got one of you. Now we're going to have to take more of you social workers out of there.' It was as if we had caused this incident because we were treating people badly."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Social service workers are increasingly at risk of violent assault. On Blanchard Road in Aurelius, N.Y., stands the home of Sabina Kulakowski, a social worker in Cayuga County who was murdered by a case client last year before he set her farm house on fire; Police officer Tom Carbonaro patrolled the halls of the Cayuga County social services department in Auburn, N.Y., where a black ribbon adorns the door to the Support Collection unit in memory of the four social workers killed in Watkins Glen, N.Y., last month. (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (52%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUBURN (NY); WATKINS GLEN (NY); DANIELSON (CONN) ; BALTIMORE (MD) UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SERVICES; WELFARE (US); MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ASSAULTS; VIOLENCE; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; WOMEN ; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; FOOD STAMPS WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); WOMEN (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); FOSTER CARE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); COUNTIES (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%); 

PERSON: KULAKOWSKI, SABINA ; DILLON, SAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



571 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
WEST TO SEARCH ADRIATIC SHIPS
In response to a United Nations resolution toughening the sanctions on Yugoslavia, an international fleet authorized to halt and search vessels carrying suspected cargo is likely to begin operating in the next several days. A senior Bush Administration official said that United States warships would participate in a multi national fleet in the Adriatic Sea once NATO endorsed the plan. A1
 
SERB-CROAT PEACE IS THREATENED
A peace plan that ended the civil war between Serbs and Croats late last year is now in danger of collapsing as Croatia's Serbian minority builds up a military force and proclaims an independent state in areas it controls. A14 

NATAL VIOLENCE IS ASSESSED
Residents in the Natal province of South Africa feel the spreading violence there reflects the waning strength of Mangosuthu Gatsha Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party, the main black group to rival the African National Congress. A1
 
CHINESE THREAT ON HONG KONG
China has sharply escalated its dispute with the British and the Hong Kong authorities by threatening to scrap the 1984 agreement that promised Hong Kong continued political and economic freedom for 50 years after it returns to Chinese control in 1997. A1
 
SEOUL TO RESUME AID TO RUSSIA
South Korea, which granted and then cut off $3 billion in economic assistance to the former Soviet Union, is preparing to resume its aid to Russia once again, Government officials said. A7
 
AMERICANS SEE VIETNAM SECRETS
Three Senators and a group of Pentagon officials toured long-secret areas of Vietnam's military headquarters and rummaged through a room of museum artifacts that may hold clues to the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War. A3
 
United Nations chief says Cambodia vote should go on. A9
 
U.S. TO MEET ON IRANIAN BAN
The United States will meet with its six closest economic partners on Friday in an attempt to persuade them to halt the sale of all militarily useful equipment and technology to Iran, Administration officials said. A5
 
Italian police arrest 75 in crackdown on the Mafia. A3
 
Cairo Journal: Film makers and fundamentalists square off. A4
 
Age and illness is threatening the Honecker manslaughter trial. A8
 
Mexican opposition vows civil disobedience in two states. A12
 
Two environmental parties join forces to woo French voters. A15
 
National A16-24
 
'YOU SEE HOW GOOD A MAN HE WAS'
To countless young urban blacks, born long after he died, Malcolm X is a folk hero, a resurrected spokesman for an angry generation. A1
 
THE LONELY UPTURN IN RETAILING
The savings that Americans have realized from lower mortgage rates are helping to support recent increases in consumer spending. But alone, those savings are not enough to spur a lackluster economy. A1
 
PASSPORT-FILE SEARCHER RESIGNS
An official who carried out the hunt of passport files for information about Bill Clinton has quit his State Department job. The disclosure of his resignation comes with the approach of a report by Federal investigators that is expected to criticize the search. A19
 
TIGHT CONTROL BY CLINTON
With his selection of a transition director of personnel, the President-elect signaled that in order to insure loyalty to his agenda he intended to have a large say in whom his Cabinet officers choose as deputies. A22
 
After seeing Bush today, Clinton will tour a black commercial hub. A22
 
Clinton won't save taxpayer money by forgoing Blair House. A22
 
News analysis: The power of the purse and an ancient battle. A23
 
A testy exchange underscored the G.O.P. split on religion. A23
 
HOMELESS GAIN IN MIAMI
A Federal judge ordered the City of Miami to create "safe zones" where homeless people can sleep, bathe, cook and eat without fear of being arrested. The order is believed to be a first for the nation. A16
 
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT'S RISING TIDE
A nun's murderer will become the 28th prisoner put to death in the United States this year when Alabama executes him on Friday. Executions are now more commonplace than at any other time since 1976, when the Supreme Court allowed them to resume, and one knowledgeable chronicler of the practice says the numbers will almost certainly soar further. A16
 
BISHOPS CLASH ON WOMEN'S ROLE
Roman Catholicism's opposition to the ordination of women, which the Vatican has insisted is not open to further debate, nonetheless became the central subject of discussion at the semiannual meeting of the nation's bishops. A20
 
NIXON WINS RULING ON TAPES
A Federal appeals court held that former President Nixon must be compensated for the Government's seizure of his White House papers and tapes, including the Watergate recordings. A16
 
A survey found a rise in journalists who say they're Democrats. A20
 
Education Page B7
 
Texas takes up the 'Robin Hood' school financing battle again.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
DINKINS ASSAILS HIS CRITICS
Mayor Dinkins accused some of his critics of distorting the facts on how he handled the Crown Heights disturbances, saying they were trying to get his "political scalp."A1
 
SOCIAL WORKERS AS TARGETS
Across the New York region and around the nation, experts say that social service workers are increasingly at risk of violent assault. At least eight workers -- five of them in New York State -- have been slain by clients in five years. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-16
 
On the run with Jeremy Irons. C1
 
Health Page C18
 
Some experts advise screening pregnant women for type B strep.
 
Arts/Entertainment C19-28
 
Warhol's "Marilyn X 100" is auctioned at Sotheby's. C19
 
Film: "Malcolm X." C19
 
Obituaries A25
 
Sports B8-13
 
Baseball: Rockies and Marlins stock rosters. B9
 
Football: Taylor eyes playoffs. B9
 
Tennis: McNeil upsets Graf. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Line-item veto: no help, or hope.
Honest food labels? Fat chance.
No ifs, ands or butts.
Topics: Let the gag rule die.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Set her free.
 
Joseph Brodsky: Bosnia tune.
 
Ann Crittenden: Bad breaks.
 
Alan M. Dershowitz: Justice on trial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); HONG KONG (93%); VIET NAM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SERBIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (90%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); HONG KONG (93%); VIET NAM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SERBIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (77%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); CIVIL WAR (75%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ARRESTS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); ORGANIZED CRIME (61%); MANSLAUGHTER (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: MANGOSUTHU GATSHA BUTHELEZI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



572 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: An Extra $2 Billion a Month, Thanks to Lower Mortgages

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Early next month, Robert E. Pearson Jr., a 45-year-old advertising executive, and his wife expect to close a deal to replace the mortgage on their suburban Milwaukee home with one at a cheaper interest rate. The transaction has induced the Pearsons to unzip their wallets: about $6,000 worth of new furniture now graces their living room and family room.
"We feel we made the right move," said Mr. Pearson, who took out a larger mortgage, but at a lower rate, to give his family extra cash to pay down debts and buy new furniture. "We feel psychologically more comfortable." 
 Over all, according to a Federal Reserve Board estimate, American consumers will enter the new year with an additional $2 billion each month in their pockets as a result of savings in 1991 and 1992 from refinancing their mortgages or from the lower rates on their adjustable-rate mortgages.
 
More Consumer Spending
 The savings are helping support recent upturns in consumer spending, which during the July-September quarter bounded ahead at a 3.4 percent annual pace after being virtually unchanged during the spring.
"People find out they've got more dollars left" after paying the mortgage, said David Seiders, economist for the National Association of Home Builders.
But alone, they are not enough to spur a lackluster economy for several reasons. Lyle E. Gramley, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, reckons refinancing and lower rates on adjustable mortgages to be roughly equivalent to a $50 billion tax cut, big enough to matter but a tiny fraction in a $6 trillion economy
Since incomes have not rebounded as much as spending, the upturn presumably has come from tapping existing assets or from lower mortgage payments. With interest rates tumbling over the last two years, touching levels not seen in two decades, millions of Americans have renegotiated mortgages or are in the process of doing so. There's nothing like an upturn in rates, like the half-point rise since Labor Day, to cause a stampede among the holdouts.
 
Paying Off Debt
 Morever, an even larger number of additional households have benefited from automatic cuts in adjustable-rate mortgages, a portion of these of the home equity variety.
Yet, as the Pearson household helps illustrate, not all of those savings find their way into cash registers. Some people are putting the new-found money in the bank while others use it for another kind of savings -- paying off accumulated debt.
The refinancing by the Pearsons involves trading a $117,000 mortgage at 9 percent for a $132,000 mortgage at 8 percent. Normally, specialists say, refinancing pays only when the new rate is at least two points below the old one, but in this case the family had an additional desire for cash. While many people are shortening the maturity of their mortgage, often to 15 years from 30, the Pearsons already had a 15-year mortgage and made no change.
Besides buying the furniture, the Pearsons are using the $15,000 of cash to repay some high-rate credit-card debt, to pay off bills from their daughter's wedding, to send some money to their son at West Point and to buy a snow board and a few other items.
Still, economists caution, mortgage-interest savings alone cannot fuel a recovery.
One reason is that low interest rates produce losers as well as winners. For instance, tens of millions of people's livelihoods depend to one degree or another on certificates of deposit, Treasury bills and other interest income, which has shrunk as interest rates have fallen.
Another is that the nation's households, though paying off more old obligations than they took on in most recent months, remain heavily indebted. Debt service during the Bush Administration is still a higher proportion of disposable income than in any Presidency in over a generation.
"We've got debt overloads all over the place," Mr. Seiders said, referring to governments and corporations as well as consumers.
Low rates have long been assumed to encourage people to borrow, both by cutting the cost of financing new purchases and cutting the burden of existing debts whose terms can be renegotiated. But with rates having fallen so far, so fast, many consumers are now also motivated to spend rather than save money, since it may now earn only 2 3/4 percent at a bank, versus perhaps three times that much a few years ago.
But as recent history shows, low interest rates are not enough by themselves to spur a lackluster economy.
 
Jobs and Income
 "The primary factors are always the fundamentals -- income and employment," said Jeffrey M. Humphreys, director of the Selig Center for Economic Growth at the University of Georgia. "These are the essential building blocks of confidence" that lead consumers, who account for two-thirds of economic activity, to spend.
And though first-time jobless claims have dwindled of late and the nation's jobless rate has edged down for four straight months, reaching 7.4 percent in October, it's not yet proved that the job market is on the mend.
Without this, recovery will almost certainly founder, contended Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist for Midland Montagu Securities in New York.
"It is employment growth that drives confidence rather than debt repayment and restructuring," he said, "since even with smaller debt service charges and greater housing affordability, consumers are unlikely to increase spending if their jobs are threatened or eliminated."


GRAPHIC: Refinancing of mortgages owned by Fannie Mae, the largest holder of residential mortgages in the country, in the frist three quarters of 1992.
 
Old Loan: 30-year fixed-rate
New Loan:
 30-year fixed-rate 44.4%
 15-year fixed-rate 47.9%
 Adjustable-rate 5.9%
 Other 1.8%
 
Old Loan: 15-year fixed-rate
New Loan:
 30-year fixed-rate 15.0%
 15-year fixed-rate 80.2%
 Adjustable-rate 3.7%
 Other 1.2%
 
Old Loan: Adjustable-rate
New Loan:
 30-year fixed-rate 46.3%
 15-year fixed-rate 36.7%
 Adjustable-rate 10.2%
 Other 6.9%
 
(Source: Federal National Mortgage Association) (pg. D2)
Chart: "Terms of Choice For Refinancing"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; RATES; INTEREST (MONEY); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; HOME EQUITY LOANS; INCOME; FINANCES, PERSONAL ; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); US LABOR DAY (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: PEARSON, ROBERT E JR; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ROBERT E PEARSON JR (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



573 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hopes to Broaden Ban on Arms Sales to Iran

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The United States is to meet Friday with six of its closest economic partners in an attempt to persuade them to halt sales of all militarily useful equipment and technology to Iran, Administration officials said today.
But in preliminary discussions, the Bush Administration has already met considerable resistance from its allies, who are eager to increase trade with Iran. In addition, the United States has pressed for the plan at such a low level that none of the allies have taken it seriously. 
 Another obstacle is that the United States itself does not completely ban all sales to Iran's military establishment. If Iran's military wanted to buy certain laptop computers, for example, it would be able to do so without approval from Washington.
The meeting, at an undisclosed location in Europe, is to include representatives from Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Japan and Germany. It will represent the first time that the countries, known as the Group of Seven, will specifically discuss such exports to Iran. Although Iran will be the main focus, the seven will also discuss such sales to Libya, Iraq and North Korea.
Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said today that the meeting was part of the Administration's effort to "harmonize export controls among major industrial nations with regard to Iran." He added that the United States will "be talking to other governments about the need for the kind of strict export licensing on Iran that we have already."
Since the beginning of the year, the United States has unsuccessfully tried to persuade its allies to halt sales to Teheran of equipment that could be put to military uses. The goal of the initiative, first reported last week in The Washington Post, is to prevent Iran from buying and producing both conventional arms and so-called weapons of mass destruction, which include ballistic missiles and chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
Three senior Administration officials presented the initiative last month to officials during an unpublicized trip to the six nations.
 
Rejection by Tokyo
 In a statement Friday, Japan expressed its reservations about the plan. "We cannot agree 100 percent with the United States because our ties go a long way back and are different from Iran-United States relations," Foreign Minsiter Michio Watanabe said at a news conference.
Even Administration officials have reservations. "The initiative has no bite," said one official who closely follows the issue. "It's being done at a low level and there's nothing in it to convince the allies why they should give up such a lucrative market."
Washington's concern about Iran's military buildup drew a response today from Iran's President, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who told a group of Revolutionary Guards that the West was trying to alarm Iran's neighbors, thus encouraging them to buy more weapons.
"Western powers and their news media state that Iran is seeking military dominance in the region through the purchase of advanced weapons," Iran Radio quoted President Rafsanjani as saying. "In fact, they try to alarm the regional countries in order to sell them more weapons and try to prevent the strengthening of cordial ties between Iran and these countries."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); JAPAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (71%); IRAN (58%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; JAPAN; EUROPE; LIBYA; IRAQ; NORTH KOREA UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); JAPAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (71%); IRAN (58%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (62%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (54%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



574 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
A banking syndicate is reportedly trying to help Northwest Airlines avoid a bankruptcy filing by putting together $300 million in new credit while it attempts to complete its merger with KLM. But some banks are said to be reluctant to go along. [Page D1.]
Nationsbank will buy almost all of Chrysler First, a consumer finance subsidiary of the Chrysler Financial Corporation. The sale will provide Chrysler with an infusion of cash, and Nationsbank will be able to expand its consumer lending business quickly. [D1.] 
 JWP expects a third-quarter loss of as much as $162 million. The prospective loss leaves JWP, a computer reseller and electrical contractor, in violation of loan agreements. [D1.]
Belmac disclosed plans to acquire a private French company three weeks ago to a group of stockbrokers. But the pharmaceutical company did not publicly announce the deal until yesterday. [D1.]
Arkla Inc. plans to sell its Arkla Exploration unit to Seagull Energy for $402 million because of a change in Federal regulations for interstate natural gas pipelines. [D3.]
Barnes & Noble completed a $508.4 million recapitalization. The financing eases the bookstore chain's heavy debt burden and will enable it to continue its ambitious expansion program. [D4.]
Continental's creditors would be paid between 4.8 cents and 36.1 cents on the dollar under the airline's bankruptcy plan. [D4.]
Japan is designing wireless telephones that would be cheaper than the planned U.S. personal communications services. [D4.]
British Airways' earnings declined 23 percent in its second quarter, in large part because of unfavorable exchange rates. [D4.]
Home Depot and Dayton Hudson reported big increases in their third-quarter profits. [D5]
 
International
Mexico has stopped pushing for quick adoption of the North American Free Trade Agreement and indicated it would discuss President-elect Bill Clinton's objections to the pact. [D1.]
China is threatening to scrap the 1984 agreement that promised Hong Kong continued political and economic freedom for 50 years. Hong Kong stock prices fell more than 3 percent. [A1.]
 
The Economy
Americans have more money in their pockets because of mortgage refinancings and savings. But while consumer spending is up, it is not robust enough to spur a lackluster economy. [A1.]
 
Markets
Stocks fell again amid signs of deteriorating earnings at computer and electrical equipment companies. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 12.42 points, to 3,193.32. [D8.]
Finland's $2 billion global bond issue was well received. It was the first issue by a sovereign government in which securities were sold in markets around the world simultaneously. [D15.]
Soybeans rose to a two-month high at the Chicago Board of Trade amid expectations for robust export demand. [D16.]
The dollar's recent rally stalled, and gold prices rose. [D16.]
 
Business Technology
Auto makers are improving the internal combustion engine in Japan. But some experts contend that the new engines will probably not sell very well anyway. [D6.]
Geospan is seeking to create computerized video maps. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
Foote, Cone & Belding promotes "brand architecture" in its San Francisco office. The goal is to become involved in a client'sentire sales and marketing process. Stuart Elliott. Advertising. [D6.]
Video game software companies are gaining some respect on Wall Street. Acclaim Entertainment and Electronic Arts are garnering most of the attention. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (82%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); TGT (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (53%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (82%); CHRYSLER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%); ARKLA INC (69%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%); TARGET CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SYNDICATED LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (74%); HOME CENTERS (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); NATURAL GAS (71%); BONDS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (67%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (67%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (67%); BOND ISSUES (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (52%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (52%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



575 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact May Have To Wait

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The Mexican Government has stopped pushing for a quick adoption of the North American Free Trade Agreement, amid signs that the new Clinton Administration will want to deal first with the domestic economy.
After initially seeking a resolution of the outstanding issues by next March, Mexican officials now say they are prepared to discuss President-elect Bill Clinton's objections to the pact whenever and wherever he wants. 
 Some Congressional Democrats are also reluctant to confront the international issue early in the next term if problems like the sluggish economy and joblessness persist. At the same time 121 new members of Congress are still sorting out their views on the free-trade agreement by Mexico, the United States and Canada.
 
Eventual Passage Still Seen
 "A lot of the members who have been elected are more nationalistic, and a lot of the Democratic members are closer to labor," which has opposed the agreement, said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat from California, who is a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee's trade subcommittee.
He added, however, that he still eventually expected passage of legislation putting the pact's provisions into American law.
Mr. Clinton mentioned at a news conference last Thursday in Little Rock, Ark., that reviving global economic growth was one of his top foreign policy goals, and that he hoped to achieve it partly by "resolving outstanding matters with Mexico." But Mr. Clinton has said little else about the agreement, and has conspicuously not mentioned it in describing his early priorities.
 
Commission Taking a Look
 Democrats said that a Clinton Administration was likely to take a much closer look at the probable effects of the free-trade agreement than did the Bush Administration, which has relied primarily on private-sector studies and economic theories of free trade in advocating prompt Congressional passage of legislation that would put the agreement into law.
Congress in the final days of the last session instructed the International Trade Commission, a bipartisan Federal agency independent of the executive branch, to conduct a lengthy review of the pact and make a report next year.
The six-member commission began three days of hearings today in its main hall, which is remarkable for its pink walls, pink ceiling beams and even pink chairs. Exporters favoring the agreement alternated testimony with importers who fear further competition from Mexico if the pact takes effect. The agreement would reduce tariffs and other trade barriers across North America.
Arnold Delin, the executive director of the Atlantic Apparel Contractors Association, said at the hearing that the agreement would devastate the small sewing companies in Pennsylvania that his trade group represents. The pact would allow large clothing companies to ship American-made fabric to Mexico, pay low-wage workers there to sew it into garments and then ship the finished apparel back to the United States free of import taxes, Mr. Delin said.
The result will be cheaper clothes for American consumers, but possibly fewer jobs for American workers. "We have been betrayed by our own Government," Mr. Delin said. "Why us? We are American citizens."
But Rodney C. Schonland, the manager of trade and regulations for the Polaroid Corporation, told the commission that his company would ship more instant film and instant cameras to Mexico from the United States instead of Europe if the pact took effect.
Polaroid, which has its headquarters in Cambridge, Mass., currently uses plants in Europe to produce half of its products for the Mexican market, because the European operations are better organized for printing boxes and instructions in languages other than English. But this difference would be more than wiped out by a provision in the free-trade agreement that on Jan. 1, 1994, would eliminate all Mexican import taxes on instant photographic equipment from the United States and Canada, Mr. Schonland said.
The hearings have attracted an eclectic group of trade lawyers, academics and association presidents. Participants include such obscure groups as the Broom Manufacturers Tariff Task Force, which is angry that the agreement will rapidly eliminate the nation's 32 percent import tax on Mexican brooms.
Mr. Clinton has staked out a middle ground on the free-trade pact's merits. In a speech in Raleigh, N.C., on Oct. 4, the President-elect said that he would not renegotiate the pact. But he also set seven conditions that would have to be met before he would sign legislation putting the pact into law.
Three of the conditions require further negotiations with Mexico. The main two involve the strengthening of trilateral labor and environmental commissions already set up by companion texts to the free-trade agreement. Mr. Clinton also wants stricter rules for temporarily reimposing tariffs or quotas if imports suddenly surge.
The other four conditions, involving such matters as the use of Mexican immigrants to break strikes in the United States, can be met with Presidential orders or acts of Congress, without Mexico's consent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES; CANADA MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRENDS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (64%); FABRICS (63%); CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); DORIS O MATSUI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



576 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: Visit to Washington;
Clinton to Take Walk in the 'Real City'

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Bill Clinton visits his new hometown this week to meet with President Bush at the White House and Congressional leaders on Capitol Hill, dine in Georgetown salons and sleep at the elegant Hay-Adams hotel in a two-bedroom suite that commands a view of the Executive Mansion.
But as rich as the visit will be with the trappings and symbolism of official Washington, it will depart from the traditional for at least two hours on Wednesday afternoon, when the President-elect will journey to Georgia Avenue, the commercial spine of a large proportion of the city's black neighborhoods. 
 Before he heads to the avenue in Northwest Washington, Mr. Clinton is scheduled to meet for an hour with the incumbent President he defeated. Aides to Mr. Clinton said today that the meeting would be an open-ended courtesy call between the two men. Hillary Clinton is scheduled to tour the White House with Barbara Bush on Thursday.
On Wednesday evening, the Clintons will attend a fund-raising reception for the Children's Defense Fund at the National Building Museum and dine at the home of Vernon E. Jordan, the prominent Washington lawyer who is heading the President-elect's transition operation. After meeting with Congressional leaders on Thursday, Mr. Clinton will attend another dinner at the Georgetown home of Pamela Harriman, a Washington hostess who is an influential figure in the Democratic Party.
 
Going Beyond the Bubble
 But Mr. Clinton is apparently making an effort to reach beyond the secure Presidential bubble that usually limits Federal officials to areas of Washington that are dominated by monuments.
The worn stretch of Georgia Avenue that Mr. Clinton will visit -- a combination of working-class residences and businesses that include a West Indian restaurant, a Korean-owned liquor store, a Chinese take-out restaurant and a beauty salon owned by a black woman -- is probably as far away as the President-elect can get psychologically from official Washington.
"It's the first time in my life a national figure has come here," Tony Mondy, a 32-year-old civil engineering student at the University of Maryland, said today as he waited for a bus on the avenue.
"It's a pretty good neighborhood," he added. "You hear a lot of things about Washington and black people and violence going on. But people here are hard-working. They're trying to make a future for their kids."
 
New Role, New Emphasis
 As Mr. Clinton moves into a new role, even his simplest decisions have acquired a political veneer. He is to fly to Washington on a chartered Boeing 727 instead of the usual military plane, and he has decided to stay at a hotel instead of at Blair House, the 14-room residence across the street from the White House where dignitaries usually are lodged.
His aides said today that both decisions were made to save taxpayer money, but in the end, Mr. Clinton's accommodations will actually cost more because of the additional Secret Service protection that will be needed to secure a commercial hotel.
Mr. Clinton is expected to spend little time at his hotel, and his visit to Georgia Avenue may be his best effort to showcase what he likes to present as his informal side and to demonstrate that he will not lose touch with the people who elected him.
 
Rewards of Support
 It is also an elaborate political payback to Charlene Drew Jarvis, the area's representative on the District Council.
Mrs. Jarvis, whose name has hit the rumor circuit as a possible Clinton appointee, spent much of her time campaigning for Mr. Clinton and barely won re-election to her council seat. On election night, she was in Little Rock instead of Washington.
But Mrs. Jarvis chose to cast the visit in other terms, calling it "a demonstration of his intention to know who his neighbors are."
"I'm going to be standing there right by his side," said Mrs. Jarvis. "And my ward will just be deliriously happy."
For Mr. Clinton's scheduled one-block stroll, Georgia Avenue will be closed off for three blocks around, and a flatbed truck will be brought in to accommodate reporters, photographers and camera crews. On the street today, Secret Service agents with hand-held radios patrolled the area .
But in a neighborhood that has seen its share of disruption -- merchants regularly arm themselves against incursions from open-air drug markets nearby -- the imminent arrival of the President-elect caused little stir today.
 
'He Can Make a Big Change'
 "I voted for him, so I must think good of him," said Shirley W. Webb, a tire shop owner who plans to shake his candidate's hand today. "God has everything in control anyhow, but if he walks in the steps of the Lord, he can make a big change."
Yun Kwon Chong, whose father owns Hamilton Beverage, applauded Mr. Clinton's visit. "He wants to get in touch with the public," he said.
Bernadine Carey was washing her customer's hair and keeping an eye on the soap opera flickering on her black-and-white television when a visitor to her storefront beauty salon asked whether she would be excited to meet the President-elect when he strolls by tomorrow.
"I put it like this," she said, shrugging as she adjusted the flow of warm water. "He's the President, but it's not something to be all bent out of shape about. He's just another man."
Bina Avery and Felix Yeoman are loan analysts for a commercial revitalization office that has, with the help of city and Federal money, financed facade renovations along some of the more tattered areas of Georgia Avenue. They first learned of Mr. Clinton's visit when Secret Service agents knocked on their door first thing this morning.
Mr. Yeoman said he voted for Mr. Clinton because he thought the Republicans were out of touch and that small-business development financing would be more likely to increase under a Democratic administration.
"Even in the last days of the election, the Republican Administration was saying there wasn't a recession just because of a minor increase in the gross national product for the final quarter," said Mr. Yeoman. "They gave the impression that they didn't know people were hurting out there."
But not everyone in Washington is sure that Mr. Clinton's trek into the real city will accomplish all that is necessary.
Courtland Milloy, a columnist for The Washington Post who invited Mr. Clinton to "a ride on the welcome wagon" for a tour of the city, compared the President-elect's visit to Jimmy Carter's inaugural walk down Pennsylvania Avenue or Mikhail S. Gorbachev's impromptu leaps into Washington pedestrian traffic during summit visits.
"I guess it'll be a good gesture," Mr. Milloy said today. "Gorbachev popped out and made a big splash by jumping out and pressing a little flesh, but it's not the same as getting to know people. And you know what happened to him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Secret Service, police officers from Washington and transition officials for President-elect Bill Clinton inspecting Georgia Avenue yesterday. Mr. Clinton will journey today to the street, the commercial spine of a large proportion of the city's black neighborhoods. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Clinton's Schedule"
 
TODAY
 Noon -- Arrives in Washington
 1:10 P.M. -- Arrives at White House
 1:20-2:15 P.M. -- Meets with President Bush
 2:45 P.M. -- Stroll on Georgia Ave (between Hamilton & Ingram Streets)
 4:30 P.M. -- Leaves for hotel
 6 P.M. -- Attends the Children's Defense Fund reception
 7:15 P.M. -- Dines with Vernon Jordan
 10 P.M. -- Returns to hotel
 
TOMORROW
Clinton will be at the U.S. Capitol in the morning, in private meetings in the afternoon and at a private dinner with Pamela Harriman in the evening. He returns to Little Rock late tomorrow evening.
 
Map of Washington, D.C. showing where Clinton will visit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HAY-ADAMS HOTEL (58%); BOEING CO (50%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (82%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (82%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (55%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (82%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (82%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (55%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); AIRLINES (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); FAST FOOD (66%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (66%); ENGINEERING (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); CHILD WELFARE (52%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%); 

PERSON: JARVIS, CHARLENE DREW (COUNCILWOMAN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); IFILL, GWEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



577 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Greek Shipping Lines Are Violating Yugoslav Embargo

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
United States officials said today that companies based in Greece are major violators of the world economic embargo against Yugoslavia and that the Bush Administration has privately complained to the Athens Government about its apparent willingness to tolerate the offenses.
President Bush was to raise the topic today in a meeting with Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis of Greece. Mr. Mitsotakis said later that he had assured Mr. Bush that Greece was complying with the embargo. 
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Mitsotakis met one day after the United Nations approved new sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro, the two republics that now make up Yugoslavia, that were designed in part to discourage violations of the embargo by Greek companies.
Administration experts, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Greek tankers have recently transported 450,000 barrels of oil to Serbia. Some of the tankers unloaded their cargoes in Bulgaria for shipment to Serbia and others unloaded in Montenegro.
As recently as Friday, one official said, a Greek-owned tanker was in the Adriatic seaport of Bar, Montenegro, unloading caustic soda, a critical product in the oil-refining process.
On Friday, the United States delegate to the United Nations, Edward J. Perkins, took the unusual step of publicly identifying one Piraeus, Greece shipping firm, Thita Tankers Company S.A., for violating sanctions in the oil and caustic soda trade.
He said the Thita Triton and Thita Volcano made several deliveries of those products to Bar. Egyptian and Italian tankers also had shipped embargoed products to Bar, he said.
Some officials suspect the Athens Government has not only tolerated the smuggling but encouraged it.
"It is certainly true that Greek ships and Greek companies have been centrally involved in violations of these sanctions," a Congressional expert said in an interview today. "But it's difficult to say the Greek Government is encouraging these shipments with a wink and a nod."
But other officials said the violations of the embargo are so blatant that it is inconceivable the Athens Government is unaware of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); GREECE (95%); SERBIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); BULGARIA (73%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) THITA TANKERS CO SA (80%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; GREECE UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); GREECE (95%); SERBIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); BULGARIA (73%); ATHENS, GREECE (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (68%); CHEMICALS TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MITSOTAKIS, CONSTANTINE (PRIME MIN) ; WINES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



578 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Money Fund, C.D. Yields Are Mixed

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit are slightly higher than a week ago at 20 leading banks nationwide but mixed in the New York area, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.
Analysts at The Monitor said that the number of banks raising rates was just slightly larger than those lowering rates. 
 New York-area bank money market rates were down slightly, in contrast to the slight increase at 20 large banks nationwide. And while rates on certificates of deposit were unchanged in New York, they were modestly higher nationwide.
At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills on Monday, average discount rates rose for the sixth consecutive week. The auction is often regarded as the harbinger of how banks will set their deposit rates in the weeks ahead.
The average rate at auction for a three-month bill rose 3 basis points, to 3.13 percent from 3.10 percent, while the six-month bill rose 6 basis points, to 3.37 percent. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
The combined New York area average for yields in the latest week showed the average money market account down a basis point, to 2.77 percent, with three- and six-month C.D.'s unchanged at 2.85 percent and 3.01 percent, respectively.
Outside the New York market, yields at 20 large banks moved higher, with an average money market account up a basis point, to 2.67 percent, and a six-month C.D. up 2 basis points, to 2.96 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: C/D/R/ INC (69%); NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (79%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



579 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: With a Crackle, Religion Enters G.O.P. Meeting

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FONTANA, Wis., Nov. 17

 BODY:
At the close of a gathering here in which the nation's Republican governors spent two days pledging harmony and a "big tent" of inclusion, a testy exchange between two Southern governors today underscored the topic that is at the core of the party's internal struggle: the role of religion.
At a news conference concluding the meeting of the Republican Governors Association, a reporter asked the governors whether they could succeed in holding together a diverse conservative coalition without alienating the religious right. 
 "There's reasonable ground that most us agree on," replied Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina. "And so we don't seek to divide. We may have differences and debate on the individual issues, but not on the general philosophy of this party." He spoke of "the big tent," a term Republicans have used to describe the diverse coalition that formed to elect Ronald Reagan and then President Bush.
But then Gov. Kirk Fordice of Mississippi, a staunch conservative who is opposed to abortion, took issue with the questioner.
 
A 'Christian Nation'
 He said the question "seemed to infer that there is a demise of Christianity in America," adding, "I totally reject that."
Mr. Fordice went on to say: "The United States of America is a Christian nation, which does not in any way infer at any time that religious intolerance or any kind of particular dogma is being forced on anyone else. It just is a simple fact of life in the United States of America."
The Governor also said that "the less we emphasize the Christian religion the further we fall into the abyss of poor character and chaos in the United States of America."
Governor Campbell then strode to the platform and said: "The value base of this country comes from the Judeo-Christian heritage that we have, and that is something we need to realize." He added that a study of history showed that "the foundation of the country" was based on "a Judeo-Christian heritage."
 
Make That 'Judeo-Christian'
 When Mr. Campbell returned to to his spot on the dais next to Mr. Fordice, he said, "I just wanted to add the 'Judeo' part."
Mr. Fordice responded tartly, "If I wanted to do that I would have done it."
The debate came after governors went out of their way during the conference to talk of diversity and sought to publicly shed the image of division that emerged from the Republican National Convention last summer.
 
Beginning in Harmony
 The convention was widely seen as having been controlled by religious conservatives, but the struggle that resulted was set aside for more than two months as Republicans tried to salvage Mr. Bush's re-election hopes. But now that Mr. Bush's fate is sealed, the party's warring factions seem about to resume the battle.
There are three factions: The Christian right, the party's economic conservatives and an emerging group of moderate Republicans. The latter group wants the party to soften its strict social conservatism and find a new appeal for blue-collar Democrats, other conservative Democrats and young people -- the groups that helped form the Reagan coalition in the 1980's.
But until the final news conference today, the governors had shown restraint about allowing the struggle to come into public view.
During the meeting, Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, who typifies those in the new moderate group, was not ready to directly repudiate the Rev. Pat Robertson, a leader of the Christian right. At the opening session of the meeting, Governor Weld said: "A lot of these pundits are running around saying Pat Robertson's captured the Republican Party. I don't think he's captured the Republican Party. He hasn't captured me. I'll tell you what, I wish him well."
But Mr. Weld added, "Over the next four years that diversity approach is probably a healthy thing for the Republican Party."
Then, in what was probably an indication of the simmering tensions that boiled over today, Mr. Fordice said: "Dr. Pat Robertson is a good friend of mine. He certainly doesn't have control of this party, but he represents Christian people who are rather strong in this country. They feel like they ought to have a voice. And he's a part of our party, and I think he'll continue to be a part of it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, left, spoke yesterday with Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, outgoing chairman of the Republican Governors Association, at a news session in Fontana, Wis. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSN REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSN REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; GOVERNORS (US) ; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); GOVERNORS (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); CHURCH & STATE (76%); HISTORY (62%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; FORDICE, KIRK (GOV); CAMPBELL, CARROLL A JR (GOV); GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR); THOMPSON, TOMMY (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); TOMMY THOMPSON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



580 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Senators Tour Hanoi's P.O.W. Closet

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Three Senators and a group of Pentagon officials were allowed today to tour long-secret areas of Vietnam's military headquarters and to rummage through a storeroom of museum artifacts that could hold clues to the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War.
The visits were evidence of what Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet of Vietnam described today as his nation's determination to "resolve all aspects of the issue of missing Americans" and to establish full diplomatic and economic ties with the United States. 
 In the dank storeroom in Hanoi's central war museum, Senator John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Select Committee on M.I.A.-P.O.W. affairs, opened a dust-covered wooden closet and found stacks of neatly folded olive green flight suits that, according to the Vietnamese, had been worn by American airmen shot down over North Vietnamese territory.
Defense Department investigators had not been granted access to the storeroom until today, and they appeared startled by Senator Kerry's discovery.
 
Hanoi's 'Enormous Effort'
 At least some of the flight suits bore name tags and, according to investigators, could provide the United States with important evidence in trying to determine the fate of pilots and other airmen who are among the 2,265 Americans still listed as unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.
After touring the museum, Maj. Gen. Thomas G. Needham, who oversees Pentagon teams investigating the fate of missing Americans throughout Indochina, said that Vietnamese cooperation "has markedly increased almost every day." "We've no reason to believe that we're not getting the information we want," he said.
Senator Hank Brown, a Colorado Republican who is a member of the select committee, said today in Hanoi that he detected an "enormous effort by Vietnam to change -- to work toward friendship, to work toward cooperation."
The three Senators -- Mr. Brown, Mr. Kerry and Tom Daschle, a South Dakota Democrat who is also a member of the committee -- are making the panel's last scheduled visit to Vietnam before the committee is to complete a final report and go out of business in January after a 17-month investigation.
 
Tour of the Citadel
 The report is expected to judge the quality of Vietnamese cooperation in resolving the question of Americans missing from the war. The Senators hinted this week that President Bush, as one of his final acts in the White House, will relax a 17-year American trade embargo that has discouraged foreign investments in Vietnam.
Calls by Americans to relax the embargo have accelerated since Vietnam's announcement last month that it would allow American investigators full access to military museums and archives holding information about Americans.
Today's visit to the Hanoi war museum, the Museum of the People's Army, came after the three Senators and a team of Pentagon officials toured the Citadel, a complex of buildings that serves as Vietnam's military headquarters.
Over the years, American intelligence reports gathered from Vietnamese refugees have suggested that American prisoners might have been held in the Citadel long after the end of the Vietnam War. But Senator Kerry said after touring the building that "we found significant information" discounting at least one such report, asserting that a group of about 30 Caucasian men was seen there in 1986.
 
Senator Is Impressed
 Vietnamese officials, hopeful that President Bush will relax and perhaps even lift the economic embargo before he leaves office in January, appeared anxious today to convince the Senators and Pentagon officials that Hanoi was cooperating fully in the search for missing Americans.
Senator Kerry, a decorated Vietnam veteran, said he was very impressed with the Vietnamese efforts.
"I think the cooperation, at least in the couple of of days we've been here, has been as much as we can ask for," he said. "Everything we've asked for has been done."
The Senators also met today with Prime Minister Kiet, who later told reporters that American and Vietnamese officials "understand each other very clearly and well."
Senator Kerry was presented by the museum's director, Col. Pham Duc Dai, with several wartime artifacts and documents, including a handful of Social Security cards and one identification card that had been collected from captured or killed American soldiers.
The Senators were given a blue and gold airman's helmet that, the Vietnamese said, had been worn by Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican who is a member of the select committee and who was a prisoner of war in North Vietnam for more than five years. Inside the helmet were the initials "J. M."
"I would think there must be piles of this stuff elsewhere," Senator Kerry said, pointing to the other wartime relics that were turned over to the American delegation today: items of military clothing, what appeared to be an American pilot's charred log book, a handbook titled "Survival" on American military search and rescue techniques.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); VIETNAM (95%); VIET NAM (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (95%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (98%); VIETNAM (95%); VIET NAM (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (95%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; PRISONERS OF WAR; MISSING IN ACTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY PERSONNEL; ARCHIVES AND RECORDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ARMED FORCES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); 

PERSON: KERRY, JOHN F (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); SHENON, PHILIP JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



581 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Living Down Atari's Ghost

BYLINE: By Adam Bryant

 BODY:
AFTER years of being haunted by the ghost of Atari, a soaring star of the early 1980's that fizzled out, American video game software companies finally appear to be getting some respect on Wall Street.
The two largest publicly traded video game developers -- Acclaim Entertainment Inc. of Oyster Bay, L.I., and Electronic Arts of San Mateo, Calif. -- are garnering most of the attention, and being promoted by many industry analysts as safe and promising. This marks a departure from the historical reading of these companies as volatile, risky plays. 
 "The entertainment software industry is going to be around for a long, long time," said Gary M. Jacobson, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody.
Why the optimism? In broad terms, the video game business is maturing more smoothly than it has in the past. Sales of video game systems based on eight-bit computer technology peaked just after Christmas 1989, and 1990 was a tough year for software developers. But the industry is upgrading to more advanced 16-bit systems.
Sales of these new systems, known as the Sega Genesis and Nintendo's Super NES, are expected to reach 10 million units this year, with an additonal seven or eight million to be sold next year. Electronic Arts and Acclaim are the two largest American third-party software suppliers for these systems.
This growth in hardware systems creates an enormous appetite for games. There are more than 250 new titles coming to market this year, and an equal number or more are expected next year. Both companies have diversified their sources of revenue. And in one sign of the market's maturation, Electronic Arts is using television advertising to pitch its titles for the Sega system.
All of which creates some high expectations that have played on the stock of Acclaim and Electronic Arts in different ways recently. The value of Acclaim's stock, which closed yesterday at $13.50, up 37.5 cents, in over-the-counter trading, has more than doubled since the summer.
Although the company has not been as steady a performer as Electronic Arts, the market nevertheless appears to be signaling that Acclaim's stock deserves to trade at an earnings multiple of more than 20, much closer to that of Electronic Arts' current price-earnings multiple of around 30.
Because of the consistency of Electronics Arts, it has become "the kind of company analysts emblazon on their pillow and hug at night," said Peter L. Keane, an analyst at Interstate/Johnson Lane in Charlotte, N.C.
Electronic Arts' stock, however, has floated too high on the expectations, analysts say, and the stock has subsequently dropped in recent weeks by as much as 16 percent since mid-October. It has rebounded, however, closing yesterday at $31, down 75 cents, in over-the-counter trading. "Both stocks are moving more into equilibrium," Mr. Jacobson said.
The two companies represent two different models of a game software publishing company. Electronic Arts maintains its own staff of software developers, while Acclaim subcontracts development of its games to other companies. And while Acclaim concentrates on licensing such popular movie and television characters as the Simpsons and the Terminator, Electronic Arts develops games that are pegged less to fictional characters. Its library of best sellers include "Chuck Yeager's Air Combat," "Deluxe Paint IV" and "John Madden Football '92."
While most analysts agree that the wind in the sails of these stocks is strong and reliable, it may not be entirely steady. Robert F. Kleiber of Piper, Jaffray Inc. downgraded his recommendation on Electronic Arts on Nov. 2 from "buy" to "accumulate." Although Mr. Kleiber did not change his earnings estimates for Electronic Arts, he did express concern about the current valuations and looming challenges over the next year for Electronic Arts and the industry as a whole.
After the holiday season ends, for example, economic weakness may hamstring sales of game systems early next year. The marketplace for advanced games based on CD-ROM (compact disk-read only memory) technology is going to intensify next year with the introduction of new systems from companies that include a joint venture known as SMSG whose partners include Electronic Arts and Time Warner. "By this time next year, the choice may include as many as eight alternatives," Mr. Kleiber wrote in his most recent report.
CD-ROMS are part of an emerging technology in which compact disks are used to store audio, video, graphics and text. Although the disks hold out enormous potential because of their storage capacity, software game developers are still struggling to fully tap that potential.
Regardless of those challenges, some analysts continue to recommend these stocks aggressively, even high-flying Electronic Arts. "There's lots more upside to the company and the stock," said Steven L. Eskenazi, an analyst with Alex. Brown & Sons in New York who tracks Electronic Arts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (92%); 7974 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACCLAIM ENTERTAINMENT INC; ELECTRONIC ARTS ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (92%); ACCLAIM ENTERTAINMENT INC (84%); NINTENDO CO LTD (55%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACCLAIM ENTERTAINMENT INC; ELECTRONIC ARTS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIDEO GAMES; STOCKS (CORPORATE); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS COMPUTER GAMES (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CHRISTMAS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM ROBERT F KLEIBER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



582 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: A Dismayed Historian of the Gallows

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HEADLAND, Ala., Nov. 11

 BODY:
Cornelius Singleton, convicted of the rape and murder of a nun when she went to pray at another sister's grave in a deserted cemetery, is scheduled to be electrocuted by Alabama this month. Few state residents expect executive clemency, least of all Watt Espy, a historian of capital punishment who sees a record tide of executions waiting to sweep the nation in the next decade.
"Most awful," says Mr. Espy, appalled at the very viciousness of the nun's murder, the kind of savagery that makes most Americans favor capital punishment to the point where 2,636 convicts await execution, more than at any one time before. 
 By his accounting, this year's death-house toll will reach 28 with the state's dispatching of Mr. Singleton on Nov. 20, the most in a single year since 1976, when the Supreme Court cleared the way for executions to resume.
This year's executions will fall short of the record 199 set in 1935, a desperate time economically and criminally, Mr. Espy notes. But this year signals an upswing that he estimates will be setting record annual tolls in excess of 300 executions by the turn of the century.
 
'Quiet Blood Bath'
 "And the danger is that you can have a kind of quiet blood bath which the people won't even notice as executions become more common and less newsworthy," said Mr. Espy, a committed opponent of the death penalty who initially favored execution when he began research on it 22 years ago.
"If we executed one a day," he said, "it would take close to nine years to kill those now waiting on death row, and we're adding 200 to 300 a year beyond that."
Time-withered reams of crime magazines and court journals surround Mr. Espy, his computer and his dog here in a ramshackle house in the heart of this rural town in southeastern Alabama, where, at 59, he now devotes his life to uncovering all he can on every execution since colonial times. So far he has documented 18,482 executions since 1608, when George Kendall was shot as a Spanish spy in the Virginia colony.
In contrast to past times of public controversy, Mr. Espy and other critics of executions now foresee an era of routine, footnote capital punishment of historic proportions in which the merits of the issue are less debated and in which retribution rather than deterrence is becoming the main social goal served. This shift is eased by a combination of the abolition of high-profile public execution more than 50 years ago and the application of modern technology in the form of lethal injection.
Of the 36 states that execute convicts, , 22, plus the Federal Government, have adopted lethal injection in recent years as either the sole or optional means of death. While critics note the continuing problems with lethal injection in some states -- 41 minutes of torturous probing for the veins of one doomed felon -- others say that historically, humaneness has never been an overriding factor.
"Study after study now shows retribution is behind the push for capital punishment," said Kica Matos, the research director for the Capital Punishment Project of the NAACP's Legal Defense and Educational Fund.
"What the American people want is some sort of a quick fix in the face of the rise in violence across the nation," Ms. Matos said.
The election of Bill Clinton presents conflicting signals, in her view. On the one hand he has promised judicial appointments rooted in individual quality rather than in conservative-agenda orthodoxy. But as Governor of Arkansas he oversaw executions without apology, including that of a lobotomized convicted murderer. Political specialists say this helped his campaign image as a firm centrist.
"Clinton's impact on the issue will be in the appointment of hundreds of Federal judges across time," Mr. Espy said. He contends that changes in the Supreme Court early in the Clinton Administration might not necessarily mean any immediate shift from an era of high-volume executions that Mr. Espy finds likely, particularly since recent Court rulings pruned the process of time-consuming death row appeals.
 
Viciousness and Despair
 "Who was it said the Supreme Court reads newspapers?" Mr. Espy commented, emphasizing the power of the country's current despair at the viciousness of crime in a nation relatively young and steeped in frontier traditions like liberal gun possession.
The United States is one of only two major industrial nations -- South Africa is the other -- that has not abolished capital punishment. And it is the only one that permits the execution of convicts younger than 18 years of age, 16 being the limit in some jurisdictions.
Mr. Espy documents this history with daily care and without benefit of a research grant. A non-academic who used to sell encyclopedias and cemetery plots, he prefers narrative detail to moralizing, letting not-so-old newspaper accounts ("Black Fiend Hanged/Jerked to Jesus") set the tone of the leering injustice that he contends remains the hallmark of capital punishment.
Mr. Espy feels that some day the nation will pause in the jagged routine of history and be ready for a full-scale debate on capital punishment. "I want to see it based on all the facts, not just emotion," he said. Accordingly, he gathers and savors human shadings above all, talking to the families of victims and perpetrators alike and wincing at the violence and sickness that he, for one, measures as largely unaffected by capital punishment.
"I happened to meet Cornelius Singleton's mother in Mobile," Mr. Espy said. "She's as fine a Christian lady as you could want to meet. And now she's become a victim of crime, just as much as that poor nun's family members and her fellow sisters."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Watt Espy, a historian of executions, is devoting his life to uncovering all he can on every execution since colonial times. He has documented 18,482 since 1608. (Frank Gaines for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ALABAMA ; VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; HISTORY; PUBLIC OPINION; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; NUNS; SEX CRIMES ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); MURDER (90%); HISTORY (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: ESPY, WATT; CLINES, FRANCIS X; SINGLETON, CORNELIUS MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



583 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Nationsbank Is Buying Most of a Chrysler Unit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Nationsbank, the acquisitive North Carolina banking company whose name reflects its ambitions, announced an agreement yesterday to buy almost all of Chrysler First, a consumer finance subsidiary of the Chrysler Financial Corporation.
For Chrysler, the sale of its consumer finance subsidiary will provide an infusion of cash and reduce by about $4 billion its borrowings in financial markets and from banks. 
 John P. Tierney, chairman of Chrysler Financial, said the company wanted to get out of some of its nonautomobile businesses to focus on financing car buyers and car dealers.
Nationsbank purchased $4 billion of Chrysler First's loans and paid Chrysler an additional premium of about $100 million. The profit to Chrysler, which bought the company in 1985 from the BankAmerica Corporation, was not disclosed.
 
Expansion of Lending
 For Nationsbank, the purchase is a way to expand its consumer lending business quickly and to deploy profitably the surplus of deposits it has accumulated since the purchase of a failed Texas bank several years ago. The bank has also said it wants to shift some of its $28 billion investment in securities into loans, where profit margins are larger.
Hugh L. McColl, Nationsbank's chairman, has often said he wants consumer lending to grow more rapidly, so that it will account for about half the company's loans, up from about 39 percent, or about $27 billion, currently.
The weak economy has slowed consumer lending at many banks. In the three months that ended on Sept. 30, for example, consumer loans at Nationsbank grew by about $305 million, or less than half as much as business loans rose.
Of the $4 billion of loans Nationsbank will purchase from Chrysler, about half are to individuals and half are to retail stores to finance their inventories.
Profits of Chrysler First were not disclosed, but analysts noted that well-run consumer finance companies could earn $1.50 to $2.50 of profit for every $100 of assets, higher than any large banking company. Nationsbank, for example, earned $1.06 on each $100 of assets in the first nine months of this year.
Chrysler First's business will be combined with Nationsbank's existing consumer finance business, which has $500 million in assets and 105 offices in 10 states, and renamed Nationscredit. The company will occupy Chrysler First's headquarters in Allentown, Pa. Robert Major, president of Chrysler First, will continue in that position.
Timothy P. Hartman, chairman of Nationsbank West, will oversee the consumer finance business. He said there would be some consolidation and cost-cutting in absorbing Chrysler First, but that the consumer finance company would remain separate from Nationsbank's branch network.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John P. Tierney, chairman of the Chrysler Financial Corporation. (Peter Yates)
 
Graphs: "What Is Changing Hands" shows details of the Chrysler First consumer finance subsidiary. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; NATIONSBANK; CHRYSLER FINANCIAL CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); CHRYSLER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; NATIONSBANK; CHRYSLER FINANCIAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; TIERNEY, JOHN P JOHN P TIERNEY (72%); HUGH L MCCOLL JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



584 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Global Finnish Issue Sells Well

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Finland received a good reception for its $2 billion bond issue yesterday despite its economic problems at home, traders said. And, for a change, American investors helped another country cover its budget deficit by buying bonds.
The global issue, under which the securities were sold in markets around the world simultaneously, was the first by a sovereign government, traders said. It sold around $900 million of its dollar-denominated five-year notes in the American market. 
 The successful sale of the issue showed that some of the pressure on the corporate bond market has eased recently as the pace of new issues has subsided. From as much as $10 billion a week in September, new issues have slowed, traders said.
 
Demand From Europeans
 James B. Quigley, managing director of the Global Debt Financing Desk at Merrill Lynch, which was a joint manager and the global coordinator for the Finland deal, said the success of the deal was partly the result of demand from Europeans for the securities because of the recent rally of the dollar.
Since the beginning of September the dollar has jumped 14 percent against the German mark and similar amounts against other European currencies. Many analysts say the dollar rally is likely to continue because interest rates are expected to decline further in Europe. And if the American economy begins to rebound at a respectable pace and attract more foreign investment the dollar rally could move even faster.
This makes owning dollar-denominated securities quite attractive because the investor can make a nice profit when the dollars are finally translated back into the home country's currency. In fact, the gains or losses on the price movements of bonds are often swamped by the change in the currency. So even if a European investor expects to lose a little on the five-year note because short-term interest rates might rise further, the currency gain can offset this loss easily.
In the Finish deal, the five-year notes were priced to yield 6.858 percent, which was 82 basis points over the yield for the five-year Treasury note at the time of the sale. In late trading, traders said the spread had narrowed by two to four basis points, another sign the deal went well.
It is hard to measure how much more or less than comparable deals Finland had to pay in yield for the successful deal. Joe Cook, a managing director at J. P. Morgan Securities, which was one of the three joint lead managers of the Finland deal, said Finland paid less yield than its recent alternative borrowings but more than a comparably rated American corporate issuer.
The Finland issue is rated Aa-2 by Moody's Investors Service and AA+ by Standard & Poor's. A comparable domestic corporate industrial bond with these ratings would have a yield that is about 40 or 50 basis points over the five-year Treasury notes, traders said. But, at the same time, compared with recent bond deals that Finland has done in Europe, the yield paid yesterday was about 10 basis points less.
Mr. Quigley of Merrill Lynch said the Finnish sale was also helped by its size. He said some fund managers buy many foreign issued bonds that are denominated in dollars and called Yankee bonds. Because this was such a large issue, not owning it could hurt a manager's performance compared with a benchmark index of the Yankee bond market. Nomura International was the third joint lead manager of the deal.
In a second $2 billion deal yesterday, the Swedish Government issued three-year bonds denominated in dollars in Europe. It was not available in the United States. The issue was priced to yield 5.636 percent, or 46 basis points over the yield on the three-year Treasury note at the time of the sale. The lead underwriters were Credit Suisse First Boston and J. P Morgan. Mr. Cook said the issue was about half sold.
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 Prices of Government bonds and notes rose moderately in light trading yesterday as the Treasury market got a late day lift from a report that showed department and chain store sales off about 1 percent in the first two weeks of November.
In secondary trading, the price of the 7.625 percent 30-year bond was up 11/32 to yield 7.53 percent, down from 7.56 percent on Monday. The prices of notes from two to ten years were up while their yields fell.
In the auction of one-year Treasury bills, the average discount rate was 3.61 percent, the highest since the 3.93 percent of June 24.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 96.350
Discounted Rate . . . 3.61%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.76%
High Price . . . 96.360
Discounted Rate . . . 3.60%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.75%
Low Price . . . 96.350
Discounted Rate . . . 3.61%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.76%
Accepted at low price . . . 86%
Total applied for . . . $34,409,645
Accepted . . . $14,254,675
N.Y. applied for . . . $31,693,595
N.Y. accepted . . . $13,679,935
Noncompetitive . . . $367,085
 
The one-year bills mature Nov. 18, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "1-Year Treasury Bills" shows the average discounted rate in percent from July 1991-Nov. 1992.; "Treasury Yield Curve" shows the yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (94%); GERMANY (71%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FINLAND EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (94%); GERMANY (71%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND ISSUES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GERMAN MARK (66%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



585 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Witness Saw Accused Killer In Another Crown Hts. Case

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

 BODY:
Showing concern for violence in Crown Heights, more than 30 Hasidic women filled a Brooklyn courtroom yesterday to hear somber testimony about the slaying of a neighbor, Phyllis LaPine, who was stabbed to death in her home on Feb. 6.
Quiet weeping could be heard in the spectator section of the small, crowded courtroom as a witness testified about finding Mrs. LaPine's 2-year-old daughter singing a children's song alone in her bedroom as the victim lay dead in a nearby hallway. 
 The witness, Joseph Simpson, a school principal and volunteer with a community ambulance service, said he cradled the child in his arms and shielded her eyes from the body as he took her out of the apartment.
The slaying, which took place in an apparent burglary, is not considered a racial incident. But it heightened tensions because the suspect is black and because racial disturbances broke out in Crown Heights in 1991 when a black child, Gavin Cato, was killed by a car, and a Hasidic man, Yankel Rosenbaum, was stabbed to death.
 
'Nothing, Man'
 In yesterday's session in State Supreme Court, a 16-year-old student identified the defendant, Romane LaFond, as a man he saw running through his backyard near Mrs. LaPine's home on the afternoon of the slaying. Mr. LaFond, 24, is an unemployed handyman who lives in Crown Heights.
The witness, Odino Brown, testified that he looked out his bedroom window because he heard his dog barking outside and that he saw Mr. LaFond in the backyard, which faced Mrs. LaPine's backyard.
Mr. Brown said he went outside, confronted Mr. LaFond and asked him what he wanted.
"He said, 'Nothing, man,' and he jumped over the fence," Mr. Brown testified, noting that a low fence separated his house from the one next door.
Replying to more questions by a prosecutor, Michael F. Vecchione, the witness said the defendant was holding a a 2-by-4 piece of wood in his right hand and that "he had blood on his hand."
A defense lawyer, Samuel Gregory, elicited in cross-examination that Mr. Brown had told the police that the defendant had been wearing a black jacket, light brown sweater and black pants. The defense is expected to present evidence that no blood stains were found on the defendant's clothing.
Mrs. LaPine was stabbed to death when she returned to her home at 680 Lefferts Avenue in Crown Heights after shopping. Considerable blood was found at the scene.
Justice Francis X. Egitto is conducting the trial, which began on Monday.
One of the Hasidic women attending the trial, Liz Zargary, said they intended to come every day "out of respect for Mrs. LaPine."
"It could have happened to any one of us," she said, adding, "We are coming to show our concern for what has happened in our community."
In February, Mrs. LaPine's slaying prompted renewed complaints by Jewish residents in Crown Heights that the police were not providing sufficient protection in the area. The slaying was also followed by an incident in which rocks and bottles were thrown back by Hasidic and black residents of the community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; HASIDISM HOMICIDE (91%); RELIGION (91%); DEATHS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); EYEWITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (70%); BURGLARY (68%); 

PERSON: LUBASCH, ARNOLD H; LAPINE, PHYLLIS; LAFOND, ROMANE PHYLLIS LAPINE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



586 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Twice Burned: Bronx Store Loses a Last Battle

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Stanley Bell hunched his shoulders against the morning chill and watched in disbelief last week as a bulldozer's chunky treads noisily crunched over a rough gray patch of broken walls and charred timbers. A gaping hole was the final testament to Belco Distributors, the two-way radio business to which he had devoted four decades of his life in the Tremont section of the Bronx.
It was nearly four months to the day that a searing blaze had burned off the second floor of his electronics store, sending him on a journey of hope and, ultimately, disbelief through the city's bureaucracy.
 
Promises, Promises
 Eager to rebuild, he had won promises of special assistance from city officials and a settlement from his insurance company. But though the insurer had deemed the building salvageable, Mr. Bell says, he was repeatedly stymied in his efforts to get the promised help or the necessary reconstruction permits from the city. Finally, the city declared the building unsafe and tore it down. 
 "I can't get any permits to reconstruct, but they can get everything over in a second," he said, adding that the city had never notified him of the demolition. "I feel my whole life here has been a failure because of this."
Mr. Bell is among half a dozen business owners on a once-vibrant stretch of East Tremont Avenue whose stores were either destroyed or heavily damaged by a five-alarm fire that began accidentally in a trash heap the morning of July 6. In one way or another, his frustrations since then echo those of his neighbors.
City officials say Mr. Bell and some of the others simply expected too much too fast and failed to comply with city rules and deadlines. But the merchants of East Tremont Avenue say they cannot forgive what they see as the hollow promises of city officials, who said they had scheduled the area for extra attention.
Two months ago, when a reporter first visited the block, Jesus Rodriguez, the owner of a hardware store destroyed in the fire, still hoped he would qualify for low-interest city loans. He now says he has abandoned any expectation of government help, even though his creditors are demanding payment from him.
Mr. Bell, who complained then of being caught in a bureaucratic quagmire, said the city's inaction had led him to put his property up for sale in late September. Now, he chafes at the prospect of having to reimburse the city for a demolition he never wanted.
Wallace L. Ford 2d, the Commissioner of the Department of Business Services, said his office was clearing the way for redevelopment, even if the merchants did think there had been no progress.
"There are instances where people expect that just as there was a catastrophic occurrence, there is an ability to rectify matters in a dramatic fashion," he said, adding that his office had helped one property owner obtain a city-owned building as part of a larger plan to rebuild a set of storefronts.
 
Safety Hazards
 Mr. Ford said his office expedited the demolition of Mr. Bell's property and four other burned-out buildings, citing the safety hazards posed by the damaged buildings, at least one of which had asbestos insulation in its plumbing and boiler system.
"This is not a situation of the city just coming in and tearing down a building," Mr. Ford said.
Stanley Bell said his misadventure began after the Department of Buildings issued him a summons to appear in court after declaring the structure unsafe, standard practice after such a fire. Vahe Tiryakian, a spokesman, said Mr. Bell could have prevented the demolition if he had taken steps to secure the building.
Mr. Bell said he and his general contractor tried in vain to obtain the necessary permits to secure the building, remove the asbestos and start construction, but was thwarted by bureaucratic tangles.
He appeared in State Supreme Court on Aug. 25, but was told the hearing -- which could determine whether the building would be razed -- had to be rescheduled because a representative from the Buildings Department was ill. He said he heard nothing further until a former worker called in a panic to say a bulldozer had arrived.
Susan Fuller, an assistant corporation counsel, said a new hearing date was set for Sept. 1 during the August meeting, and a judge ruled to demolish the building at that second hearing. She said there was no need for written notice.
"He lost his opportunity to get into any kind of debate with the court by not following up," she said.
With the demolition done, Mr. Bell is now waiting to see how much he will have to pay for the job. Repeated telephone calls to the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which handled the job, were not returned.
Francisco Gonzalez, who works for the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, a branch of the Office of the Bronx Borough President, said that city officials should have streamlined their procedures so the rebuilding process would have been under way no more than 30 days after the fire.
"The city made promises they can help and assist these businesses," said Mr. Gonzalez, who convened a meeting of merchants and officials two weeks after the fire. "We try to facilitate with the city and the city agencies sit on their hands."
A speedier response, he said, could have helped Mr. Bell keep his business in the Bronx as well as sending the message that the survival of small businesses was as worthy of official attention as keeping a large corporation from leaving the city.
Mr. Rodriguez fretted that while he waits for his landlord to rebuild his hardware store, his suppliers are asking him for $35,000 he owes for merchandise that was lost in the fire. They have reduced his line of credit at another hardware store where he is a co-owner.
He is two months behind on his house payments and has put his Jeep up for sale, the same one on whose dashboard he placed the charred street number sign from his store. Mr. Rodriguez said a city official told him he would qualify for a $250,000 loan, but the official denied ever having made such a promise, saying the finances were limited to $50,000 per merchant and that it would have been a disservice to lend Mr. Rodriguez an insufficient amount.
"This is worse than starting over," Mr. Rodriguez said. "When you start from scratch, at least you know where you stand. Here, you don't know about tomorrow."
Nor do the merchants who emerged unscathed by the fire. Mo Stein, the owner of Frank's Sporting Goods, worried that the block could mirror the landscape across the street, where a fire reduced a string of shops to a lot strewn with broken bricks, bulging bags of garbage and a few scurrying rats.
"This could be the death of the block," he said. "The city's inaction creates the biggest problems in the world. Talk about a domino effect."
Across the street, Smitty Smith paused in front of a shuttered bank and craned his neck to look at a row of fluorescent lights that lined the roof.
"When they lit up at night, it was beautiful," he said, as a homeless man swathed in grimy rags tottered in the nearby doorway. "But they don't put them on any more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When fire swept through East Tremont Avenue in the Bronx, merchants were given promises of special assistance from the city. Four months later many brand the promises as hollow. Stanley Bell said his efforts to rebuild his store were stymied until the city finally tore it down as unsafe. He showed his daughter, Risa Hoag, the site. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 
Map of the Bronx highlighting site of fire (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TREMONT (NYC) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FIRES AND FIREMEN; SMALL BUSINESS; DEMOLITION CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FIRES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (77%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); HARDWARE STORES (70%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; BELL, STANLEY (BRONX STORE OWNER)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



587 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar's Recent Rally Stalls While Gold Prices Advance

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar's recent rally stalled yesterday in the absence of fresh economic news.
Gold prices rose. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $334.30 an ounce, up 40 cents from Monday. A late quote from the Republic National Bank said gold rose 90 cents to close at $335.40 an ounce. 
 The dollar has been rising in recent weeks amid reports that indicate the economy is slowly improving. Retail sales, industrial production and the nation's money supply all have perked up in recent days.
"Over all, the dollar is close to the highs we have seen, but there has been little new incentive to take it higher," Craig Asche, a vice president and foreign exchange trader at Salomon Brothers, said.
The dollar has been strengthening against the mark in recent sessions. The mark weakened on Monday after five leading German economists predicted zero growth in western Germany's economy next year, Andrew Hodge, vice president at Bank Brussels Lambert, said.
Mr. Hodge said the dollar failed to break a critical level of about 160.7 marks during the session. The dollar closed at 1.592 marks in late New York trading, up from 1.5915 late Monday.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 124.56 yen from 124.25 yen at Monday's close. Later, in London, it fell to 124.5 yen. At closing in New York, the dollar was quoted at 124.35 yen, down from 124.7 yen on Monday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.5225, from $1.5185 late Monday. In New York, one pound cost $1.522, less expensive than Monday's $1.5245.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.447 Swiss francs, up from 1.4365; 5.3625 French francs, down from 5.3645; 1,358 Italian lire, up from 1,357, and 1.27385 Canadian dollars, up from 1.27125.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late rates Monday, included: 1.5955 German marks, up from 1.592; 1.4508 Swiss francs, up from 1.438; 5.3825 French francs, up from 5.3615; 1.795 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7891; 1,361 Italian lire, up from 1,357, and 1.2747 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2698.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $333.95 an ounce, from $335.75 bid late Monday. In Zurich, gold fell to a closing bid of $333.90, from $335.25 bid late Monday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $2.52 an ounce to close at a bid of $334.40.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); BELGIUM (75%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); ING BELGIUM SA/NV (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); BELGIUM (75%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); JAPAN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BRITISH POUND (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); RETAIL SALES (56%); 

PERSON: ANDREW HODGE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



588 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A Ratings Cut For Prudential

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Standard & Poor's lowered its ratings by a notch yesterday on $3.15 billion of bonds from the Prudential Insurance Company of America, making it more expensive for the biggest insurance company in the United States to borrow money.
The downgrade, to AA+ from the top AAA rating, signifies a higher risk is associated with owning Prudential debt and that means the Newark company may be forced to offer higher interest rates in the future to attract investors. 
 S.& P. said it had stripped Prudential's AAA rating because of the insurer's losses from Hurricane Andrew. Prudential said in September that it had given a subsidiary $900 million to cover greater-than-anticipated claims from victims of the hurricane. Prudential said it expected more than $1 billion of claims and forecast a 1992 loss of $500 million. In addition, S.& P. said it expected Prudential to show as much as $900 million of hurricane-related after-tax losses.
Prudential said the company would have almost $10 billion of capital after paying hurricane-related claims, about the same as in 1991.
Moody's Investors Service said in September that it might cut its Aa1 ratings on Prudential. Prudential lost its Aaa rating from Moody's last January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA; STANDARD & POOR'S INC PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA; STANDARD & POOR'S INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CORPORATE BONDS HURRICANES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



589 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
British Air's Net Off 23% In 2d Quarter

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
British Airways reported a decline of 23 percent today in earnings in its second quarter, as a modest gain in operating income was offset by unfavorable exchange rates.
British Airways reported earnings of 112 million, or $170.2 million at current exchange rates, for the quarter that ended on Sept. 30, down from 146 million in the corresponding period in 1991. 
 Income from the 1991 quarter included a one-time gain of 25 million from aircraft sales, while the 1992 results included a charge of 16 million from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Combined, those items offset a 2.4 percent increase in operating profits in the quarter.
British Airways said its planes carried a larger percentage of passengers during the period. But it said the yield -- the amount earned for each mile a passenger is flown -- was off.
Revenue rose 5.2 percent, to 1.50 billion, or $2.28 billion, for the second quarter.
British Airways' chairman, Lord King, said the results were "not at a level we would like," but noted that the industry over all was in a third straight year of staggering losses.
"While we continue to achieve results that are the envy of our competitors, we, like them, have suffered from the effects of the recession in many of our key markets right around the globe," Mr. King said in a statement.
"Prospects for the second half of the financial year remain uncertain," he said. "Although we continue to experience growth in overall traffic, we do not expect to see an increase in demand for our premium brands until there is sustained economic growth in the major markets which we serve."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
British Air-USAir Tie
 LONDON, Nov. 17 (By Bloomberg Business News) -- British Airways will insist on the right to veto financial decisions at USAir as a condition for completing its proposed $750 million investment in the unprofitable United States airline, British Air's chief executive, Colin Marshall, said today.
British Air expects the United States to approve the link with USAir by Dec. 24, Mr. Marshall said. A rejection by the United Sates would "encourage those doubtful about 'open skies' to believe the U.S. doesn't believe in it," he added
Moreover, "the deal is as it stands," and is not subject to possible American demands that British Air give up any veto over some of USAir's financial decisions, Mr. Marshall said. The British airline must have representatives on USAir's board and "couldn't go into an arrangement without broad veto," or with "no influence whatsoever," on USAir's board, he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Landings and Takeoffs" shows the net income or loss of British Airways by calendar quarter. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: COLIN MARSHALL (75%); LORD KING (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



590 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Running Half-Engine to Save Fuel

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
In the race to develop automobile engines that conserve fuel but provide adequate power, the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation has revived an idea that failed a decade ago.
Mitsubishi's new engine automatically switches from four cylinders to two in slow city driving to save fuel, and shifts back to four cylinders when open-road power is needed. 
 The new engine, available only in Japan so far, is the latest product of an aggressive effort by Japanese auto makers to improve the internal combustion engine. Although such efforts could put further pressure on the American auto makers, some experts contend that the new engines will not be suitable for larger American cars and probably will not sell very well anyway.
 
Some Lackluster Results
 Indeed, two new engines introduced by Japanese companies last year have not had that much impact on the market, despite their impressive technology.
Mitsubishi introduced an engine last year that offered a significant improvement in fuel economy by using so-called lean-burn technology. But the engine, offered as an option on the compact Mirage sold only in Japan, has been chosen by only one-half of 1 percent of Mirage buyers.
Honda has had slightly better success with its fuel-efficient VTEC-E engine, introduced last year on some models of the Civic. About 5 percent of the Civic buyers in the United States and Japan have chosen the new engine, a figure that the company says is about what it expected.
Mitsubishi, however, concluded from its experience that consumers were not interested in fuel efficiency alone -- even in Japan, where gasoline costs about three times what it does in the United States.
So Mitsubishi came back with a new approach. Its 1.6-liter engine, capable of 175 horsepower, was introduced last month as an option for Mitsubishi's compact Lancer and Mirage models for sale in Japan. The company said the cars could average more than 37 miles a gallon and when cruising at a steady speed a bit below 40 miles an hour could achieve 61 miles a gallon. The figures come from the standard Japanese mileage test, which differs from that used in the United States.
 
No Decision on U.S. Sales
 Mitsubishi has not yet decided whether to begin selling the engines in the United States. If it does, it will have to come up with new speed and power reference points for switching between two and four cylinders, because the driving habits in the United States, with its many open roads, are far different from those in Japan, with its monumental traffic jams.
An engine cylinder is a chamber in which fuel is burned to power a piston. The concept of varying the number of working cylinders was first tried by General Motors on some 1981-model Cadillacs, which could operate using four, six or eight cylinders. Mitsubishi tried the approach in 1982, offering an engine that could operate on two or four cylinders.
But both efforts were short-lived, mainly because customers just did not respond. Also, the Mitsubishi managing director in charge of passenger car development, Motoo Suzuki, acknowledged that the switch between two and four cylinders was somewhat jerky, with the car suddenly speeding up or slowing down.
But now, Mr. Suzuki said, improved electronic engine controls allow the switch to be made almost imperceptibly. The engine can operate on two cylinders up to a speed of about 60 miles an hour. But if the driver needs power to accelerate quickly, the engine will switch to four cylinders even if the car is traveling at only one mile an hour. The switch is made by hydraulic pressure, activated by an electronic device that senses engine speed.
 
A Savings of 16%
 Mr. Suzuki said the two-cylinder option could lead to a 16 percent improvement in fuel efficiency in typical city driving.
In the quest for efficiency, an approach pursued by Honda, Mitsubishi and Toyota is the lean-burn engine, which mixes more air with the fuel. But lean-burn technology tends to increase pollution by nitrogen oxides and also tends to limit engine power, making it suitable only for the smallest cars. The engine that Mitsubishi introduced a year ago is a lean-burn engine.
Another approach is to vary the timing of the opening and closing of valves that let air and fuel into the cylinder depending on the speed of the engine. The idea is to maximize the amount of air and fuel entering the cylinder.
While such variable valve timing improves the engine's power, it has little effect on fuel consumption. So auto makers are turning to combinations of techniques.
Honda, in its VTEC-E engine combines the valve-timing and lean-burn approaches. Mitsubishi's new engine uses the valve-timing approach for power but instead of lean-burn technology it employs two-cylinder operation to achieve better mileage.
The Mitsubishi engine makes use of high-speed and low-speed cams and rocker arms to control the opening and closing of valves. When the engine is rotating at high speeds, the high-speed mechanisms keep the valves open longer. At slower speeds, the low-speed cam and rocker arm control the valve timing. When little power is needed, specially designed hydraulic pistons disconnect the high- and low-speed cam and rocker arms for two of the four cylinders, leaving them inoperable.
"There's no question that the Japanese have some very clever designs and mechanisms," said David E. Cole, director of the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation at the University of Michigan. "But others don't have to use that to achieve similar performance gains."
 
Some Differences Noted
 Japanese engines are smaller than American ones, he said, and have trouble generating power at low speeds without using tricks like variable valve timing.
Mr. Cole also said that variable valve timing "adds significantly to the cost of the vehicle." Indeed, Mitsubishi said its new engine with the two-cylinder mode added 170,000 yen, about $1,400, to a car's price.
But the Japanese manufacturers are undeterred. Eventually such technology, they say, will spread to more models of cars and the price will come down. "Such improvements will be accelerated by selling such products in the market," Mr. Suzuki of Mitsubishi said, "even if the volume is small."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Mitsubishi's Fuel-Saving Engine Works"
 
Mitsubishi combines a four-cylinder for power on the freeway with two-cylinder engine for fuel, efficiency in city driving. To accomplish this, the engine switches between three modes.
 
Inside the engine
 
High-speed mode above 5,000 engine revolutions per minute (R.P.M.)
 
High-speed mechanism is engaged on all four cylinders.
 
Low-speed mode between 3,400 and 5,000 R.P.M.
 
Low-speed mechanism is engaged on all four cylinders.
 
"Modulated displacement" mode below 3,400 R.P.M.
 
Low-speed mechanism is engaged on only two cylinders.
 
Inside each cylinder
 
As each cam spins, it drives its rocker arm, controlling the opening and closing of the valve. In high-speed mode, for example, the cam spins rapidly, keeping the valve open wider to let in more air for combustion. Switching from one mode to another is done by a hydraulic electronic control.
 
(Sources: Mitsubishi Motors, Automotive News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: 7211 (TSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ENGINES; ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (75%); GASOLINE (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (67%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



591 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: The Pop Life

BYLINE: By Sheila Rule

 BODY:
A Genesis to Suit
The long and the short of marketing the rock group Genesis these days involves, well, "The Shorts" and "The Longs."
In the spirit of having something for everybody, Atlantic Records is releasing "Genesis Live: The Way We Walk" in two separate albums, aimed at two distinct audiences. The newly released "Volume 1: The Shorts" features in-concert versions of hits from the group's last three studio albums, including "Genesis," "Invisible Touch" and "We Can't Dance." "Volume 2: The Longs" is intended to highlight the group's longer, more exploratory numbers, including "Home by the Sea," "Domino" and "Driving the Last Spike," as well as a medley of pieces from the 1970's. To be sold at a discount, the second volume will be released in January and available only through April. 
 The songs on both volumes, Genesis's first live recordings in 10 years, were recorded during the band's stadium tour this year.
"We didn't want to come out with a high-priced album in the middle of these economic times," said Doug Morris, a co-chairman and co-chief executive officer of the Atlantic Group, about the decision against releasing a double-set album. "Secondly, we felt we could appeal to two audiences. One is 'The Shorts' audience, which may start with 14-year-olds who listen to radio and like the hits. The other is the audience that has been with Genesis for years, the adult audience, which is very interested in their eclectic works and longer pieces."
The marketing approach takes advantage of the success of the group -- whose onstage members include Phil Collins, Tony Banks, Mike Rutherford, Daryl Stuermer and Chester Thompson -- in maintaining its traditional base of fans while attracting a new generation of record buyers. "The Shorts" also rides on the coattails of the album "We Can't Dance." Released about a year ago, it has sold more than three million copies in the United States.
"What we're selling is 20 years of emotion," Mr. Morris said. "This is a band that has been around a long time and is very dear to the hearts of a lot of different people."
 
Music for 'Malcolm X'
 To prepare himself for composing the score to Spike Lee's new film, "Malcolm X," which opens across the country today, the trumpeter and composer Terence Blanchard looked at -- or perhaps more accurately, listened to -- a few other movies. (Vincent Canby's review of "Malcolm X" is on page C19.)
"Spike gave me 'Anatomy of a Murder,' which Duke Ellington scored," Mr. Blanchard said. "Spike wanted an orchestra so I went out and got other movies that people suggested. 'Glory' was one I watched a lot."
Mr. Blanchard first collaborated with Mr. Lee on the score of his film "School Daze" in 1988, which led to his contributing to the music of the director's subsequent films, "Do The Right Thing," "Mo' Better Blues" and "Jungle Fever." "I don't start scoring a film until it's just about fully edited, so I can see how the scenes are cut together, where the emphasis is in the scenes," he said. "One thing that's amazing about the process is that I can read the script and get an idea but once I see the scene it can be totally different."
"Malcolm X: The Original Motion Picture Score" (40 Acres and a Mule Musicworks/Columbia) features the Boys Choir of Harlem, the saxophonists Branford Marsalis and Jerry Dodgion, Tarus Mateen on bass, Troy Davis on drums, Sir Roland Hanna on piano and Britt Woodman on trombone. The score, a mix of original jazz and orchestral pieces, represents just one aspect of Mr. Blanchard's participation in the film. He makes his acting debut as the trumpeter and leader of a quartet that backs up an actress playing Billie Holiday. But acting the part required no special creativity, he said.
"That's basically who I am," he said. "I'm a jazz musician. I have a serious passion for music."
That serious passion will be on display evenings from Tuesday through Nov. 29 when Mr. Blanchard plays an engagement at the Village Vanguard in Greenwich Village. He said he would be giving the premiere performances of jazz suite versions of the "Malcolm X" score there.
 
Ya Kid K
 Ya Kid K, who as lead singer of the group Technotronic had pop hits like "Pump Up the Jam" and "Move This," has seen a lot of the world and heard a lot of its music. She was born in Zaire and reared there and in Kenya and in Belgium. Her newly released debut solo album, "One World Nation" (SBK Records), was recorded and mixed in Belgium, the United States and England. It includes rap, African percussion, reggae and a new version of "Move This."
Having been so many places, Ya Kid K, who is 20 years old, says she considers herself a citizen of "the planet earth" and does not like "passports, boundaries or borders." Yet when it comes to the roots of the world's music, she says, all roads lead back to Africa.
"If you mess around with the tempo and listen to the music you'll find that every kind of style of music around today derives from there," said Ya Kid K, adding that "Ya" is a term of respect reserved for older relatives or friends. Her original name is Manuela Barbara Kamosi Maose Djogi.
"So there is nothing that we can't claim," she said of people of the African diaspora. "The whole world is open to us because we started it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phil Collins of Genesis (David Scheinmann/Atlantic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MALCOLM X (MOVIE); POP LIFE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GENESIS (BAND); ATLANTIC RECORDS; SBK RECORDS GROUP ATLANTIC GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENESIS (BAND); ATLANTIC RECORDS; SBK RECORDS GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); MOTION PICTURES POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); MOVIE REVIEWS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA; YA KID K (VOCALIST); BLANCHARD, TERENCE; LEE, SPIKE DOUG MORRIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



592 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 6; Living Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Meeting South African Wines

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
SINCE early summer, ships with container-loads of South African wine have been docking at American ports and the wines have been showing up in wine shops and restaurants. By the end of the year, about 40,000 cases will have landed here.
With the lifting of trade sanctions against South Africa nearly a year and a half ago, Americans have an opportunity -- and for many it is the first time -- to sample South African wines. 
 Like many other wine regions, South Africa, the ninth-largest wine-producing country in the world, is
A little-known wine region with a unique local grape, pinotage.
adding to the vast global supply of chardonnay and cabernet sauvignon. It also offers a wine made from a grape that is grown exclusively in South Africa, pinotage. The red pinotage wines are easy to like for their gentle fruity complexity and relatively reasonable price.
"A good pinotage should become synonymous with what is distinctive about South African wines," said Andre Shearer, whose company, the Natural Corporation, was among the first to send South African wines to America. Roger Bohmrich, a vice president of Frederick Wildman & Sons, the importer of Kanonkop and Lievland wines from the Stellenbosch district, said that while there are only limited amounts of most South African wines available, there is a good supply of pinotage for the demand. "That's the one you're likely to see in restaurants," he said.
The pinotage grape, developed in 1926, is a hybrid of pinot noir and cinsaut. In South Africa, the cinsaut grape is also known as hermitage, hence the hybridized name, pinotage. Never mind that in France's Rhone Valley, where the cinsaut is extensively cultivated, the wine called hermitage is made from the syrah grape and has nothing to do with cinsaut. Or that Australia's greatest red wine, Grange Hermitage, is made from syrah, not cinsaut.
The pinotage grape was originally intended for blending and for lower-priced bulk wine. "But now the wine makers are learning to treat it like the best cabernet sauvignon or syrah, with excellent results," Mr. Shearer said. "It has its own distinctive style and flavor." There are nearly 100 wineries making wines with pinotage in South Africa today; about half of the wines are blends.
At Boom, a restaurant in SoHo with an international menu and wine list to match, Rocco Ancarola, one of the owners, started serving South African wines as soon as they became available, even pouring them as house wines. "Pinotage is South Africa's claim to fame," he said. "It has body and softness. It surprises people who are unfamiliar with it."
At a tasting of a selection of pinotage wines in New York earlier this year, several South African wine experts, among them Mr. Shearer, John Platter, the country's leading wine authority, and Jabulani Ntshangase (pronounced Chan-GA-say), a native of Soweto who came to New York in 1980 with a business scholarship to Baruch College and now works with Mr. Shearer, discussed the various styles of pinotage.
The tasters preferred the deliciously spicy yet fruity Kanonkop 1990 pinotage. "It's well knit, and I could see it developing for 10 years," Mr. Ntshangase said.
Pinotage can be vinified to have the rich, satisfying complexity and lingering finish of the award-winning Kanonkop, or it can be made in a light and fruity style suggesting Beaujolais, like the Simonsig 1989. "If you like this style of pinotage, we have it in abundance," Mr. Platter said of the Simonsig.
Landskroon pinotage 1989 had the kind of earthy bouquet typical of some pinot noir. The tasters agreed that it was a well-balanced wine with good complexity, but lighter than the Kanonkop. The Bertrams pinotage 1988 was pleasant and easy to drink, while Clos Malverne 1989 was a sturdier wine, with more complexity.
Mr. Shearer predicted that there would eventually be around a dozen pinotage wines on the American market. For around $17 a bottle, the Kanonkop pinotage is the most expensive. Most are $7 to $10.
But selling these wines has not always been as easy as sipping them. Most wine shops that have started carrying South African wines, like Crossroads Wine and Liquor on West 14th Street and Lower Falls Wine Company in Newton, Mass., report no consumer resistance to them. But others are less eager to stock them. "Questions of politics are being raised," Mr. Ntshangase said. "But there is also the quality factor. People who taste the cabernet and pinotage wines and our French-style sauvignon blancs are very receptive."
"I'm putting my political credibility on the line," he added. "But we have to think about the economics of the country as well as the politics."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FREDERICK WILDMAN & SONS LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WINES WINE (93%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



593 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Bad Breaks

SERIES: Bill's List: An occasional series commenting on ideas and issues facing the new Clinton Administration.

BYLINE: By Ann Crittenden; Ann Crittenden is author of the forthcoming "Killing the Sacred Cows: Bold Ideas for a New Economy."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Now that the election is over, all we have to do is get the economy moving again, tackle the deficit and add a few much needed domestic programs. All this will take money. But instead of raising taxes, we could consider eliminating a few unproductive tax subsidies that favor corporate debt, foreign investors and long lunches. Here are some suggestions:
* The debtors' subsidy. Right now, a company can deduct all interest payments on debt, even debt incurred buying up its own shares. This means that in effect the Treasury subsidized much of the damaging casino economy of the 1980's. The deduction was originally limited to investment in plant and equipment. If the interest on debt to purchase more than $5 million in stock was no longer deductible, and if companies were no longer able to write-off "goodwill" and similar intangible assets of acquired companies, we would gain $9 billion over five years. 
 * The Puerto Rican subsidy. Drug companies are the principal beneficiaries of the possessions tax credit. The idea was to create jobs in Puerto Rico by giving companies tax credits to set up manufacturing operations there. According to the Congressional Budget Office, repeal of this credit would produce $15 billion in revenue over five years. Do we really need to shelter an industry that charges Americans more for their drugs than consumers are charged anywhere else in the industrialized world?
* The Jacuzzi subsidy. The mortgage interest deduction allows the write-off of interest on mortgages of up to $1 million. Only 19.2 percent of this tax break goes to home owners with incomes below $40,000 (79 percent of taxpayers). If the deduction were capped at 15 percent for home owners with incomes of more than $150,000 (roughly cutting its value in half), the Treasury would save $15 billion a year.
* The advertising subsidy. Companies can write off their annual advertising costs every year. Why not treat some of those expenses as a gradual deduction, since they can contribute to brand recognition that lasts for decades? If 20 percent of the spending for advertising were deducted over four years, the Treasury would raise roughly $18 billion in the first four years, with declining gains after that.
* The Perrier subsidy. Remember the two-martini lunch? Now it's bottled water, but expense-account lunches are still 80 percent deductible. If the deduction were reduced to 50 percent, Federal revenues would rise by $18 billion over five years, and we would discover that the wheels of commerce didn't need that kind of grease.
* The foreigners' subsidy. Interest income earned by foreigners on investments in the U.S. is tax exempt, making the U.S. one of the world's premier tax havens. If a 5 percent tax were imposed on interest earned by foreigners on their U.S. securities, we would gain $11 billion over five years -- even if the tax were waived for those who reported the income to their own governments.
* The speculator subsidy. This isn't a subsidy, but it could cost us a fortune if interest rates go up again. Commercial banks enjoy Federal deposit insurance on money they invest in Treasury securities, which pay higher interest rates than banks pay depositors. But why should we insure deposits that are being used for interest rate speculation? Let's limit the percentage of assets a bank can use to play arbitrage games with insured deposits.
Getting rid of these kinks in the tax code wouldn't hurt the economy. On the contrary, it would allow the Government to invest its tax dollars more productively. Of course, anyone who knows anything about Washington knows that the chances of eliminating subsidies for the folks who write the tax laws are roughly equal to the chances of finding an open suitcase of $100 bills on 34th Street. In other words, it would be a miracle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;PUERTO RICO UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; INTEREST (MONEY); CORPORATIONS; EXPENSE ACCOUNTS ; ADVERTISING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MORTGAGES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); AWARENESS MARKETING (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); BOTTLED WATER (71%); BRAND EQUITY (68%); BRANDING (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: CRITTENDEN, ANN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



594 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Asian AIDS Cases Soon to Pass Africa's

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Nov. 8 special report on AIDS in Asia predicts that reported cases in Asia will multiply in the millions, and the reputation of AIDS as a gay disease will be forgotten. There is, unfortunately, a growing trend to scapegoat gay people as the principal carriers of this disease. 
 Recently, China attributed a jump in AIDS cases to drug addiction, prostitution and homosexuality. A recent gay Asian regional conference held in the Philippines had its conference site changed when the hotel owners realized AIDS was a principal topic. In Japan, where AIDS cases through homosexual transmission is almost double that of heterosexual transmission, new Government pamphlets on human immunodeficiency virus awareness do not directly address the gay population. There is a prevailing notion that AIDS is a result of the gay liberation movement, and any educational materials directed to gays may only increase the AIDS caseload.
The World Health Organization's AIDS surveillance report notes homosexual and bisexual AIDS cases represent 50 percent to 75 percent of the cases in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, French Polynesia, New Caledonia and the Philippines.
You speculate that Asian governments have not responded to the AIDS crisis because of fears of offending local standards, of driving away international investors, local denial or plain ignorance of the problem's seriousness. These reasons let many countries off the hook much too easily. Their ruling parties and elites know full well what AIDS is, and their health ministers have attended many world AIDS conferences.
For the less developed and poorer Asian countries, AIDS is inextricably linked to poverty, and if these governments, many of them corrupt, have not addressed basic health issues of their poor before AIDS, there is little reason they will address this disease now. Thailand is the sole exception with its Government backing a successful H.I.V. education program. With more than 35 countries in the region and 25 of these countries reporting H.I.V. and AIDS cases, W.H.O. predicts cumulative AIDS cases in the region will exceed Africa's by the year 2000.
You end by citing how the lingering denial of AIDS in Asian countries will have catastrophic effects on their economies when significant numbers of the work force succumb to the disease. In this global economy, the United States, Japan and Western European nations have significant investments, manufacturing plants and factories in Asia. California alone has a $40 billion yearly trade with Asia.
The economic health and well-being of Asia has profound effects on the Western nations and Japan, and our own denial is exemplified by an absence of sharing resources and experiences in combatting AIDS.
For the second year in a row, the San Francisco AIDS surveillance unit has recorded a decline in the number of reported Asian Pacific Islander AIDS cases, reflecting the same decline as that of the white gay male population. Culturally sensitive and gay-positive educational materials, early intervention and testing and sexual behavior changes have been responsible for this decline. Replicating and sharing these programs in Asia will be one invaluable step in helping to stem an AIDS epidemic there.
 
JOHN L. SILVA
Exec. Dir., Community HIV Project
Gay Asian Pacific Alliance
San Francisco, Nov. 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ASIA (98%); AFRICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW CALEDONIA (79%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS ASIA (98%); AFRICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW CALEDONIA (79%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); HOMOSEXUALITY AIDS & HIV (99%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASE REPORTING (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); AIDS & HIV REPORTING (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (88%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); VIRUSES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); PROSTITUTION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (56%); HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); 

PERSON: SILVA, JOHN L

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992



595 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Here's Who First Asked Rock's Big Question

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
It was 1955, there was a revolution on the radio, and five kids from Washington Heights signed up as foot soldiers. Just after the birth of rock-and-roll, they had their moment.
That moment was a simple, tender song called "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?"; the group was Frankie Lymon and the Teen-Agers. For nearly 40 years -- as the song was recorded and rerecorded into the pop music pantheon -- the boy with the sweet soprano and that first blockbuster hit were joined in rock 'n' roll immortality. 
 Yesterday, a bit of revisionist music history was made in a courtroom in lower Manhattan. A Federal jury ruled that two other members of the group had actually first asked the apocalyptic questions posed by the song:
 
Oo-wah oo-wah
Oo-wah oo-wah
Oo-wah oo-wah
Why do fools fall in love?
Why do birds sing so gay?
And lovers await the break of day?
Why do they fall in love?
Frankie Lymon might have had some role, the jury found, but his fellow Teen-Agers -- Jimmy Merchant and Herman Santiago -- were the true and rightful authors.
Now, Mr. Merchant, a cabdriver living in Queens, and Mr. Santiago, who is unemployed and still lives in Washington Heights, stand to collect millions of dollars from those who profited from the song.
"It's been a long, awful struggle that we've been fighting since we were kids," said Mr. Merchant, who is now 52. "Thank God we're alive to see this."
But the struggle is not over. The plaintiffs must go through a second phase of the trial to determine how much they are owed. "I figure there's about $4 million coming to them," said their lawyer, Carl E. Person.
The defense lawyer, Ira Greenberg, said he would ask Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald to reverse the jury's verdict. He would not say if, failing that, his clients would appeal, but he cautioned that the verdict would set a bad precedent by encouraging similar suits years after the fact.
The story of "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?" is a tangled history of music-business chicanery, legal maneuvering and festering resentment, not to mention an earlier courtroom battle over which of Frankie Lymon's three wives was entitled to what was then deemed to be his share of the royalties.
 
Quartet Called the Pre miers-
 It began toward the end of 1955 with a quartet of 15-year-old students at Stitt Junior High in Washington Heights, who called themselves the Premiers. They got a tryout with George Goldner, the sharp-dressing owner of Gee Records, performing a song called "Birds Sing So Gay." Shortly after, Goldner recorded the group and released a record.
What happened in that interval, just a matter of weeks, would haunt Mr. Merchant and Mr. Santiago for 37 years. Another boy from the neighborhood, 13-year-old Frankie Lymon, joined the group and replaced Mr. Santiago as the lead vocalist on the song. The act's name was changed to the Teen-Agers and the song became "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?" And Mr. Lymon and Mr. Goldner, not Mr. Merchant and Mr. Santiago, were named in the copyright as authors.
"Why Do Fools Fall In Love?" soared to the top of the pop charts in early 1956, and the group followed it with an 18-month concert tour. But the members of the band were paid just $1,000 each for their efforts, and Mr. Merchant and Mr. Santiago received no songwriting royalties.
"We were ignorant," Mr. Merchant said. "We did not understand contracts. We didn't know what publishing was. We didn't know about percentages. They said, 'We'll take care of you; the money will be there when you turn 21' and we believed them."
 
Complaints of Intimidation
 Soon, Mr. Merchant recalled, he and Mr. Santiago began to suspect that they had been taken. The singers maintain that when they complained about not being paid, they were intimidated into silence, a pattern that continued over several years when, from time to time, they would raise the issue. Mr. Santiago testified at the trial that a record company executive told him in 1969 that his life would be in danger if he pursued his claim.
Their outrage grew when they realized that Mr. Lymon was receiving songwriting royalties. "Frankie barely did anything on that song," Mr. Merchant said. "It was Herman and me. In the beginning, I was angry at Frankie, but through the years, I began to realize that he was completely manipulated by these people."
Mr. Goldner claimed credit on the premise that the song as actually recorded was substantially different from the song that the Premiers had taken to him. Several second-hand accounts have it that Mr. Goldner put Mr. Lyman's name on the song in order to market it as a schoolboy's love paean to a teacher.
Most of the royalties went to Mr. Goldner and Morris Levy, who was an important promoter and music company owner in the early days of rock-and-roll, and the music companies they owned. In 1964, Mr. Goldner mysteriously signed over the copyright to "Why Do Fools Fall in Love" and other works to Mr. Levy, asserting that he had mistakenly taken songwriting credit that belonged to his colleague.
Mr. Person described the actions of Mr. Goldner and Mr. Levy -- who was convicted years later on two counts of conspiracy to commit extortion -- as "pretty typical of the music world in those days, but very dishonest."
"I don't think the trial was about whether Morris Levy and George Goldner were nice human beings," Mr. Greenberg said. "It was about who wrote the song, and our position was that Merchant and Santiago didn't write the song."
Both Mr. Levy and Mr. Goldner died several years ago. It was the estate of Morris Levy and two companies that he owned, the Big Seven Music Corporation and Roulette Records Inc., that the jury found liable.
Usually, copyright complaints cannot seek royalties from more than three years before the suit was filed. But based on the claim that Mr. Merchant and Mr. Santiago feared the consequences if they took legal action, the jury waived the three-year limit, and found them eligible for royalties they would have collected since 1969, the date of the death threat against them.
Indeed, Mr. Santiago and Mr. Merchant are the sole survivors among the people who created and marketed "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?"
Frankie Lymon left the Teen-Agers in 1957, and the group began a rapid fade into obscurity. The other singers, still teen-agers, began the daily struggle of people who live ordinary lives in the city, while still bitter over what had become of their brief fame. They kept in touch and still occasionally perform together.
Mr. Lymon, after a long struggle with heroin, died of an overdose in 1968 at his grandmother's home in Washington Heights. Another Teen-Ager, Sherman Garnes, died during heart surgery, and a third, Joe Negroni, died of a stroke.
Five years ago, Mr. Santiago and Mr. Merchant began singing together again. They now perform as Frankie Lymon's Teen-Agers, with Louis Lymon taking his late brother's place. "This is what I want to get back to: Making music," Mr. Merchant said.
Because the copyright can be renewed through the year 2030, it can not only make the plaintiffs rich men right away, it can provide a source of income well into their old age.
"That would be very nice," said Mr. Merchant. "I guess it's about time something nice happened to us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Federal jury in Manhattan ruled yesterday thet in 1955, Jimmy Merchant co-wrote the song "Why Do Fools Fall in Love" with a band member, Herman Santiago. After the ruling, Mr. Merchant spoke to his lawyer from his apartment in Sunnyside, Queens. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); Frankie Lymon in 1957 before a show at the Palladium in New York. The jury decided that Mr. Lymon unfairly shared the copyright and royalties to the song. (Associated Press) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; COPYRIGHTS POP & ROCK (91%); VERDICTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); ROYALTIES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); LAWYERS (74%); HISTORY (74%); LITIGATION (69%); WRITERS (65%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; SANTIAGO, HERMAN; MERCHANT, JIMMY; LYMON, FRANKIE; LEVY, MORRIS; GOLDNER, GEORGE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992



596 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION;
Washington Greets Clinton With Open Arms

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton walked into Washington's open arms today, gliding from the campaign he just won into the campaign he has just begun. In a sneak preview of the style and symbolism likely to mark the Clinton Presidency, he moved quickly from the august confines of the White House to the storefronts of Georgia Avenue, seeking wisdom from the President and from the people.
The Presidential wisdom was offered in private. But Mr. Clinton later described his meeting with Mr. Bush, which covered topics from foreign policy to health care, as "terrific." [Page A22.] 
 The popular wisdom emerged willy-nilly from a happy, boisterous crowd of 500 people who made it through two metal detectors to touch Mr. Clinton, to pose for pictures with him and to talk about their children, their businesses, how much they liked the movie "Malcolm X," how much they feared the guns that kill the young men in their alleys and how much they wanted him to succeed.
"I'm glad you're with the common folk -- you're keeping your promise," said one man.
"My son is here," said another. "He wants to become President of the United States. God bless you."
Along the one-and-one-half-block walk, Mr. Clinton talked to a hairdresser about health insurance reform, chatted with a liquor store owner about the job creation potential of small business and promised a 9-year-old girl an invitation to his inaugural.
Mr. Clinton has declared that his Presidency will itself be a campaign, an appeal to the people to crash through the Washington logjam. As he moved from the capital's ceremonial venues to its streets -- trailing a cumbersome army of television cameras, photographers, and reporters on three flatbed trucks -- he seemed to be following that blueprint.
"The campaign has just begun," said Kenneth M. Duberstein, who, as President Reagan's chief of staff, has seen Presidential transitions from both ends. "I mean his campaign to change America, his campaign to get the economy moving in the direction he promised and to convince the American people to rally around him and his program -- a program which has not yet been written and a program on which the American people should be focused."
After a virtually wordless, two-minute public welcome of Mr. Clinton at the White House, marked by President Bush's open-armed greeting of the rival he once belittled as a "bozo," the President-elect seemed firmly in control of the day's symbolism.
Indeed, as the ponderous mediaapparatus detached itself from the President and lumbered off after Mr. Clinton, it underlined the swiftness with which public attention has turned to the newcomer and away from the lame-duck President.
"All the attention, all the media focus, all the political focus all flows to the incoming guy," said Mr. Duberstein. "And you're kind of left there taking care of business. It's as if you knew it was time to move off center stage, but you were still on stage when all of a sudden the new soprano was front and center. Even if the soprano's act didn't begin till tomorrow."
 
Past and Future
 There was, in fact, a poignant contrast between the two most recent public appearances of these former rivals. One week ago, President Bush drove to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial at midnight to participate in a public reading of the names of America's dead, a somber moment honoring the past. Today, President-elect Clinton went to the streets of Washington in mid-afternoon, to talk about the future.
In recent public statements, President Bush has made it clear that he dislikes the 11-week Presidential fadeout prescribed by the Constitution. At an awards dinner Monday night, according to a report by United Press International, Mr. Bush said, "I've concluded that the interregnum is too long, too ungenerous and too long. But we're determined to finish this in style."
 
Attention Blossoms
 But if Mr. Bush was uncomfortable with the sudden shrinking sensation confronting a lame-duck President, Mr. Clinton seemed immune to vertigo as his own stature -- if stature can be measured in attention of reporters and cameras -- grew by the second. As Mr. Clinton's motorcade pulled into the White House driveway, some 250 or more reporters tripped over each other to get a good view, or gave up and glumly regarded their colleagues' backs.
Perhaps 10 public words were spoken between the two men. Each made perhaps five gestures -- awkward waves, firm handshakes and the like -- which worked out to 25 reporters per gesture. Seldom since Mr. Bush first took office has a two-minute "photo opportunity" received such coverage.
There was other, more disconcerting evidence that, for better and for worse, the nation is turning its attention to the newcomers. One young man strode back and forth with a handwritten sign saying, "Welcome to Washington, Gov. Clinton. I need a job in your Administration!" As this sign carrier walked to and fro, he crossed paths with an older, angrier man whose sign read, "Clinton Cut My Sister's Throat."
The young man who wanted a job later turned up at the intersection of Ingraham Street and Georgia Avenue, but did not appear to make it through the metal detectors set up to screen the reporters and the crowds. But, with people like the other, angrier sign-carrier in mind, hundreds of police and security agents wandered the byways and rooftops near the one-and-one-half-block stretch of Georgia Avenue before Mr. Clinton got there.
But on the ground, the crowd's anticipation seemed free of any anxiety. They clapped when the District's Mayor, Sharon Pratt Kelly, climbed out of her car. They smiled when Mayor Kelly, along with City Councilwoman Charlene Drew Jarvis and Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District's nonvoting Congressional delegate, greeted the crowds. But they roared and hollered when, at 3:20, Mr. Clinton got out of his limousine and started to talk to them.
"I thought if I came here the very first thing in Washington it would make a statement that I wanted to support small business," Mr. Clinton told Yong Mo Chong, the Korean-born owner of Hamilton Beverage.
"This is the first time ever a President of the U.S.A. went to a small business like this," a beaming Mr. Chong responded. "You're going to make a great President."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pennsylvania Avenue: President-elect Bill Clinton and President Bush at the White House. (Agence France-Presse); Georgia Avenue: Mr. Clinton with Washingtonians on a neighborhood walk. Among them were Eleanor Holmes Norton, delegate to Congress, fourth from right, and Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly, sixth from right. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. A1); President Bush greeting President-elect Bill Clinton yesterday as Mr. Clinton arrived at the White House.; As Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush met in the White House, Andrew Gerst of Tenafly, N.J., did a little job hunting outside. Mr. Gerst's mother said that later, when Mr. Clinton greeted people on Georgia Avenue, her son, who had worked for the Clinton campaign in New Jersey, asked the President-elect for a job in his Administration. She said Mr. Clinton told him to submit a resume.; A reluctant Jordan Reid, 7 years old, took his place last night for a photo opportunity with President-elect Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, at a reception for the Children's Defense Fund. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (59%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (59%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS US PRESIDENTS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POLITICS (74%); RETAILERS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); METAL DETECTORS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); JOB CREATION (50%); INSURANCE (50%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992



597 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
NATO BACKS YUGOSLAV BLOCKADE
NATO agreed to enforce a United Nations-backed naval blockade to tighten the trade embargo against Yugoslavia and ordered its military experts to work out operational details by Friday. A1
 
U.S. PRESSES FOR SERB'S OUSTER
Having failed to budge President Slobodan Milosevic from his position as Serbia's strongman with economic and political sanctions, the United States is now trying to increase pressure for his ouster by supporting Serbian opposition to him, especially on Yugoslav television. A11
 

A BLEAK MOOD IN SARAJEVO
As winter nears, there is a bleakness of mood that pervades homes and apartments in Sarajevo, the besieged capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, something that transcends the need to burn old furniture for heating and the dwindling food reserves that have cut the diet for many. A12
 
ISRAEL, IMMIGRANTS AND H.I.V.
The Government has announced that Israel is barring immigrants carrying the virus that causes AIDS, setting off an outcry from critics who say the ban is discriminatory and contradicts a law that gives all Jews the right to settle in Israel. A3
 
GERMANS REASSURE ISRAEL
In Israel, a country that was born in the pain of Nazi Germany's horrors, leaders of the new Germany have arrived this week, reassuring their sensitive hosts that there will not be another fire this time. A3
 
IDENTIFYING VIETNAM DEAD
Documents and wartime artifacts released by the Vietnamese Government have allowed American investigators to determine that four soldiers listed as missing did in fact die, the chairman of a Senate investigating panel said today. A8
 
PSYCHIATRIC VICTIMS IN CANADA
The Canadian Government, in a reversal of position caused by public pressure, has finally agreed to compensate victims of bizarre psychiatric experiments carried out in the 1950's and funded covertly by the Central Intelligence Agency. A9
 
Britain reaffirms plans for more democracy in Hong Kong. A5
 
Striking tobacco workers are the last straw in Italy. A6
 
Job action causes India travelers to use smaller airlines. A10
 
Pakistan arrests former leader and her party aides. A8
 
Tallaght Journal: Candidate reflects new style of Irish politics. A4
 
 
National A16-28, B9
 
REPORT ON CLINTON-FILE SEARCH
The State Department's inspector general said he suspected that the White House was aware of what he called a "politically motivated" search through passport records on Bill Clinton while the search was under way. But he said there was no evidence that the White House had instigated it. A1
 
At Foggy Bottom, resentment and relief. A24
 
MR. CLINTON GOES TO WASHINGTON
From the White House to the capital's storefronts, the day belonged to the President-elect, who met with President Bush, toured among pleased everyday people and seemed fully in control of the imagery that he sought to project for the new Administration. A1
 
Clinton said his meeting with Bush had been "terrific." A22
 
News analysis: For Clinton, a perilous journey has begun. A23
 
The Clinton economic chief made a flurry of appointments. A22
 
BISHOPS REJECT PAPER ON WOMEN
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops declined to adopt a pastoral letter on the role of women, a document nine years in the making that had ended up reflecting long-held views of the Vatican. A1
 
RARE STEP BY GRAND JURORS
Twelve members of a grand jury that had spent two and a half years hearing evidence of environmental crimes at the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant in Colorado asked that the Government appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the Justice Department's handling of the case. A16
 
The military reportedly considered radiation as a terror weapon. A17
 
NEW PERIL TO ALASKA GRAY WOLVES
Trying to tip the balance of nature in favor of moose and caribous, and thus in favor of hunters and tourism, wildlife officials in Alaska have decided to start shooting wolves from airplanes over a huge part of the state's wilderness. A16
 
NAVY ACTS ON HOMOSEXUALS
The Navy will require all R.O.T.C. cadets to sign an affidavit saying they understand that they can be discharged and forced to pay back their scholarships if they are found to be homosexual. A18
 
FROM THE SPOTLIGHT TO OBSCURITY
The second trial of Clair E. George, the former C.I.A. official charged with lying to Congress and a grand jury about the Iran-contra affair, is lurching toward an end, drained of most of its drama. A28
 
Vitamin E cuts the risk of heart disease, two studies found. A19
 
Researchers said a big California quake now loomed nearer. A20
 
An autopsy found drugs in the victim of the Detroit police beating. A25
 
 
Metro Digest B1
 
SHOT BY FELLOW OFFICERS
A team of three transit officers, mistakenly convinced that they were confronting a pair of armed robbers holding up a woman, opened fire on their colleagues outside a Brooklyn subway stop. A1
 
RIGHTS TO A POP HIT
In a bit of revisionist music history, a Federal jury in Manhattan ruled that two members of the group Frankie Lymon and the Teen-Agers had actually first asked the apocalyptic questions posed by the song, "Why Do Fools Fall in Love." A1
 
LAWMAKERS UNDER INQUIRY
Federal investigators have questioned at least 18 present and former Connecticut lawmakers and searched the home and office of the state's Republican Party chairman as part of an inquiry into 1989 votes about allowing out-of-state banks to operate in Connecticut. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
The Home Section C1-16
 
Common folk, too, can have mattress trouble. C1
 
On the book-signing circuit with Magic Johnson. C1
 
So the dog ate your invitation. C1
 
The challenge of fish-keeping. C2
 
Arts/Entertainment C17-28
 
Gay autobiography wins a National Book Award.C19
 
Prices lower than expected at Christie's. C19
 
New-York Historical Society may receive fiscal help. C19
 
Dance: New faces, more 'Nutcrackers.' C19
 
Music: "Corkscrews," a revue. C23
 
Word and Image:
"Looking Around," by Witold Rybczynski. C25
 
Sports B10-17
 
Baseball: Bonds is m.v.p. B11
 
Yanks still smarting after losses. B13
 
Basketball: Knicks need realigning. B14
 
Indiana wins N.I.T. opener. B14
 
Without Taylor, Giants turn cautious. B13
 
Hockey: Rangers welcome a timeout. B17
 
Devils top Sabres. B17
 
Tennis: Capriati advances. B11
 
Obituaries D20-21
 
Dorothy Kirsten, lyric soprano
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Richard Nixon's unjust reward.
 
New York's finest, embarrassed.
 
Needed: ambassador in Moscow.
 
Topics: A star is born.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Eight rounds to go.
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Shoot to feed Somalia.
 
Richard Nixon: Save the peace dividend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); VIET NAM (91%); HONG KONG (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); VIET NAM (91%); HONG KONG (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); STRIKES (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); AIDS & HIV (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992



598 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Alaska to Kill Wolves To Inflate Game Herds

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Trying to tip the balance of nature in favor of moose and caribous, wildlife officials have decided to start shooting wolves from airplanes over a huge portion of the Alaska wilderness.
By reducing the number of wolves that prey on big-game animals, Alaska wildlife officials hope to produce a bounty for hunters and tourists. 
 "We feel we are going to create a wildlife spectacle on a par with the major migrations in East Africa," said David Kelleyhouse, director of the Alaska Division of Wildlife Conservation. "Mom and pop from Syracuse can come up here and see something that they can't see anywhere else on earth."
 
International Outcry Expected
 With votes today and on Tuesday, the Alaska Board of Game set in motion a major reordering of the predatory chain in a habitat often referred to as the American Serengeti. The move promises to affect the populations of the nation's biggest herds of moose, dall sheep, caribous, wolves and grizzly bears into the next century.
But some biologists say the state has entered a dangerous phase of "playing God," that will so upset the natural cycles that it will actually produce fewer animals.
The decision to begin killing wolves, a wildlife management practice that was stopped nearly 10 years ago after critics labeled it barbaric, is bound to generate an international outcry. For many people, the Alaska gray wolf is a symbol of the state's wild character, chronicled in Jack London tales and Walt Disney movies.
To inflate Alaska's populations of moose and caribous, which already number well over a million, the state plans to kill hundreds of wolves each year. Wildlife experts estimate that the wolves, the primary predators of Alaska's big-game animals, number no more than 7,000 statewide.
The plan calls for the wolves to be shot by game officials from airplanes or by private citizens who will be allowed to track them from the air, then land and shoot them. Both practices are prohibited under the Federal Airborne Hunting Act, but the law makes an exception for state game managers or for state-sanctioned wildlife control.
 
'A Very Dumb Mistake'
 A number of wildlife biologists say that killing hundreds of Alaska's wolves each year would not guarantee a population explosion of large animals. In some areas, 80 percent of the wolves, which run in packs of 8 to 30 animals, would be killed.
"This decision is bad biology all around, almost insulting from a scientific standpoint," said Dr. Gordon Haber, a wildlife scientist who has been studying wolves in Alaska for 27 years. "They are making a very dumb mistake."
Letting nature take its course over a number of years would gradually build up the big-game herds, Dr. Haber said. If too many wolves are killed, the game herds will grow too fast and risk mass starvation or disease, he said.
 
The Yellowstone Model
 Other biologists have pointed to Yellowstone National Park, where wolves were wiped out long ago and where the elk population is now so excessive that hundreds have died of starvation or disease in recent years.
Wolves are extinct or endangered in every state but Alaska and Minnesota. Some critics say the decision this week to kill wolves systematically harkens back to wolf-poisoning campaigns of the 19th century, a claim state officials dispute.
 
A 5-Year Program
 "I have never heard anyone in this state say we ought to eliminate all the wolves," said Bruce Bartley, a spokesman for the wildlife department. "What's happening is some hunters feel they are being shortchanged. They think a few more moose and caribou ought to die by bullets instead of by teeth."
Although there are no real shortages of big-game animals in Alaska, this week's decision is an attempt to make it easier for hunters to kill moose and caribous, said Mr. Kelleyhouse, whose appointment two years ago reflects a philosophical change in wildlife management favored by Gov. Walter J. Hickel of Alaska.
Before the election of Governor Hickel, an independent, in 1990, the state had been moving away from any sort of systematic wolf-killing program.
The plan enacted this week by the state game board is a five-year program of shooting wolves in a 43,000-square-mile area between Anchorage and Fairbanks, a wilderness of birch forests, glaciers and tundra that is home to more than 60,000 caribous, 30,000 moose, 2,000 grizzly bears and about 700 wolves. Since bears, as well as wolves, prey on the moose and caribous, the state will also try to eliminate more bears in some areas, although the exact numbers have not been determined.
Although the proportion of Alaska residents who hunt is twice the 8 percent average in the rest of the nation, there is considerable opposition to the wolf-killing program here.
"We don't think game populations should be artificially maintained for high levels of hunting," said Dave McCargo, a director of the Alaska Wildlife Alliance, a group dedicated to protecting the state's wild animals. "More than 80 percent of Alaskans don't hunt. Yet, this agency is being run for a small group of people."
Hunters' groups generally favored this week's decision. Randy Smith, director of the Alaska Outdoor Council, a coalition of hunters and gun users, said that if the state did not begin killing wolves it would take too long for the moose and caribou herds to build up. "These animals are being managed for the benefit of man, and that's the way it should be," Mr. Smith said.
Until two years ago, Alaskans were allowed to hunt wolves for sport by tracking them in airplanes, then shooting them on the ground. After a celebrated case in which an Anchorage surgeon, Jack Frost, was accused by Federal officials of killing up to 60 wolves he had tracked by plane, the practice, called land-and-shoot, was stopped. Some Alaskans are still allowed to trap wolves for fur or, with a special permit, to shoot them from the ground.
Mr. Kelleyhouse noted that the game board's decision this week outlaws land-and-shoot hunting of wolves for sport. It can only be done now as a wildlife management tool, he said.
But Stephen Wells, associate director of the Alaska Wildlife Alliance, said, "No matter what they call it, they're still trying to manage these animals to guarantee a hunter's success rather than on sound scientific decisions."
British Columbia and other areas that in the past allowed aerial shooting of wolves faced fierce international opposition, including economic boycotts, until they ceased the practice. In the last year, the State of Alaska has received hundreds of letters from out of state, "almost universally opposed to wolf killing," Mr. Bartley said.
The new plan calls for the killings to begin in late winter, when the snow is deepest and the wolves are at their weakest, game officials said. The animals would be shot and killed quickly, under strict supervision, Mr. Kelleyhouse said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alaska wildlife officials are hoping to produce a bounty for hunters and tourists by reducing the number of wolves that prey on big-game animals. (Fred McConnaughey/Photo Researchers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (72%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (72%); ALASKA, USA (94%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HUNTING AND TRAPPING; WOLVES; MOOSE; CARIBOU; BEARS; PUBLIC OPINION WILDLIFE (93%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (91%); MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); ANIMAL CONTROL (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992



599 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: 2 Sides Ask Flexibility As Trade Talks Begin

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Each side called on the other to show flexibility today as top American and European officials gathered at the White House's sumptuous guest house to begin another round of meetings aimed at averting a trade war that links humble animal feeds and costly white wines.
But neither side publicly expressed any willingness to change its positions. 
 The negotiations are scheduled to last until Thursday afternoon in an attempt to break the impasse in current world trade talks.
The negotiations broke up shortly after 8 P.M., with officials giving no indication of having reached an understanding.
"We're settled in again," said Ray MacSharry, the European Community's Agriculture Commissioner, as he left Blair House, which the White House uses for visiting dignitaries. "We're looking at the documents we've been exchanging for weeks and months."
Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, announced on Nov. 5 that she would impose 200 percent import taxes on white wines, rapeseed oil and wheat gluten from the European Community on Dec. 5 unless the community reduces certain farm subsidies that limit American animal feed exports.
Mr. MacSharry and Frans Andriessen, the community's external relations commissioner, flew here today from Brussels to meet with Mrs. Hills and Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan.
 
Outcome Unknown
 Unlike the case at most important meetings on international economic policy, the script here has not been written in advance by aides. "On a deal where it's been negotiated so long, where it's so political, there's a limited amount of precooking that staff can do," an American official said. "The big guys know the score and have to solve it."
The key issue dividing the two sides involves the community's subsidized production of soybeans, rapeseed and sunflower oil. These oilseeds are used mainly as animal feed, though their oil is also sold as cooking oil.
The European Community has been subsidizing production since the 1960's, but production did not soar until the early 1980's, when the community cut its grain subsidies under pressure from the United States and other grain exporters. Farmers then began planting huge fields of rapeseed, so production soared from 2.2 million metric tons in 1980, to 8.2 million tons in 1987, when the United States began complaining.
Production has continued to rise since then, peaking at 12.82 million tons last year before dropping back to an estimated 11.86 million tons this autumn. The United States wants the community to cap production at 8 million tons while the community wants it capped at 10 million tons.
An international arbitration panel has ruled twice in the last five years that the community's subsidies violate free trade rules that the community has pledged to obey. But European officials, particularly French officials, say it is not politically feasible to reduce subsidies because farmers would take to the streets in protest.
The European Community decided in May to reduce its oilseeds acreage by 15 percent to save money on subsidies. The United States dismissed this as inadequate because farmers tend to leave the least fertile or marshiest acres to lie fallow under such programs, with little effect on overall output.
On his way into the meeting this evening, Mr. Madigan emphasized to reporters the two decisions by the international arbitration panel, which was assembled by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the 105-nation group that oversees global free trade rules. "What is at issue between the United States and the E.C. is the integrity of GATT," he said.
Mr. Andriessen disagreed several minutes later when he too entered Blair House. "What's more important is the positions of the negotiators," he said.
When asked whether he expected progress, Mr. MacSharry shouted back to reporters, "We'll do our best -- that's what we're here for."
 
Ingredients of Deal
 Negotiators must mix five ingredients into a final deal, said Carol L. Brookins, an agriculture consultant on President Bush's top private advisory council on trade issues. Tonnage and acreage are two issues, while the figure that connects them together, the yield per acre, is a third.
The other two issues are how long the production caps will be mandatory and whether there will be an enforcement mechanism to punish European countries that produce more than their share of the allowed total for the community. "It's really a question of whether the U.S. will sign a blank check and say, 'Do what you want to do,' " Ms. Brookins said.
To make matters more complicated, Mr. MacSharry has also insisted that other outstanding farm issues be resolved at the same time as the oilseeds question. These issues relate to the tonnage of the community's subsidized grain exports and the legality under free trade rules of other farm subsidies that the community is now introducing.
Tying several issues together has the advantage of making it harder to say which side won in the negotiations, trade officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SOYBEAN FARMING (66%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992



600 of 921 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: THE TRANSITION: Recruiting;
Clinton Economic Advisers Get Assignments, and Heads May Turn

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Robert B. Reich, the head of President-elect Bill Clinton's economic transition team, has made assignments to a dozen advisers to help frame specific economic proposals for the new Administration, several advisers said today.
As Washington is abuzz with speculation about who will be nominated for top positions, the assignments, made at a meeting in Little Rock, Ark., on Tuesday, give some indications of who may be named to economic policy posts. 
 The team is being asked to develop the proposals made in Mr. Clinton's campaign program and to speak to a variety of economists, government experts and business executives about the pros and cons of the proposals.
 
Mid-December Target Date
 Several advisers said in interviews that Mr. Reich had asked the following people to oversee work in specific areas and present firm policy proposals by the middle of December:
*Lawrence H. Summers, a Harvard economics professor on leave to be chief economist at the World Bank, will oversee work on economic policy, including tax policy and whether fiscal stimulus is needed. Mr. Summers is often mentioned as a possible future chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
*Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a professor of economics and business administration at the University of California, Berkeley, will oversee work on policies regarding technology and manufacturing. Professor Tyson favors a more active approach by government, through increased research spending, for example, to help high-tech industry.
*Derek Shearer, a longtime friend and adviser to Mr. Clinton and an economics professor at Occidental College in Los Angeles, will head the team working on improving education and job training to help increase the nation's competitiveness.
*Letitia Chambers, a consultant who specializes in budgetary matters, will oversee work on the budget.
*Ira Magaziner, a longtime friend and a Rhodes scholar with Mr. Clinton, will oversee developing proposals to make long-term cuts in the budget. Mr. Magaziner, a business consultant based in Rhode Island, has long talked about saving money by making government more efficient.
*Barry Carter, a Georgetown University law professor who has advised Mr. Clinton on international relations, will develop trade positions.
The advisers interviewed said several other experts would work with Mr. Summers on economic policy. They include Robert Shapiro, an economist at the Progressive Policy Institute; Robert Rubin, co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, and Roger Altman, a friend of Mr. Clinton's from their Georgetown University days and now a partner in the Blackstone Group, a New York investment bank.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert B. Reich, the head of President-elect Bill Clinton's economic transition team, speaking during a news conference last week. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); BX (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (51%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; REICH, ROBERT B; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); ROGER ALTMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992

 
