

601 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Peng Zhen of China, 95, Dies; Was a Leading Hard-Liner

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 27

 BODY:
Peng Zhen, one of China's foremost hard-line leaders, died on Saturday at the age of 95.
Best known as the longtime Mayor of Beijing who was the first prominent victim of the Cultural Revolution in 1966, Mr. Peng spent 12 years in internal exile before re-emerging to help codify an authoritarian legal framework for China after the death of Mao in 1976. The legal framework included a harsh criminal code that gave the police, prosecutors and courts all-encompassing power under the Communist Party's direction. 
 As one of the party's toughest enforcers and legal experts, Mr. Peng was the epitome of politically correct Marxism-Leninism, and though his death is likely to further weaken hard-line influence here, his opposition to private property, capitalism and Western culture had been a powerful brake on the pace of economic reform and on the prospect for political change.
Mr. Peng helped draft China's 1982 Constitution, and as chairman of the National People's Congress, he worked closely with a senior hard-liner, Chen Yun, who died in 1995, to obstruct many of the economic reforms promoted by Deng Xiaoping in the 1980's. And he worked to overthrow the political reformers Deng appointed when they advocated a more market-based economy and greater democracy for the Chinese.
"He saw law as a tool of authoritarian rule and as a way to create predictability while maintaining control by the party elite," said David M. Lampton, director of the National Committee on United States-China Relations. "But I don't think he saw the law as something that would be binding on the elite itself."
A dispatch by the New China News Agency said Mr. Peng died at 11:40 P.M. on Saturday of an unspecified "illness." He had been struggling with heart problems for a number of years. The death of Deng on Feb. 19 left Mr. Peng as the most senior of China's remaining party elders. Now the most senior party elder is Yang Shangkun, who is 90.
As a revolutionary who fought with Mao for the Communist victory in 1949, Mr. Peng took part in all the major decisions that have shaped today's Communist Party leadership, including the decision to place Jiang Zemin, the former party boss of Shanghai, at the head of the national party in the wake of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre.
His death will have no immediate impact on the current alignment of leaders, but it weakens the hard-line wing of the party and thus could ease the path for liberalization. Other powerful surviving elders -- like Mr. Yang, Bo Yibo, 89, and Wan Li, 80 -- are believed to be less hostile to reform than Mr. Peng was, and are likely to continue playing influential roles behind the scenes in shaping policy or in resolving disputes among the younger generation of leaders who hold office now.
Mr. Peng was instrumental in bringing down Hu Yaobang, the pro-reform Communist Party chief removed by Deng in 1987. Two years later, Mr. Peng strongly supported the imposition of martial law to curb pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square that arose after Mr. Hu's death. Those demonstrations were put down in a military assault on June 4, 1989, and Mr. Peng took part with Deng and other senior leaders in sacking Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party chief who succeeded Mr. Hu and who refused to order the military crackdown.
The struggle between Mr. Peng and Mr. Hu was not only ideological, since the reformist party boss was out to force the retirement of older leaders and break up their patronage networks, which were obstructing reform. Mr. Hu opened an anti-corruption campaign that was said to have implicated Mr. Peng's only daughter, and this only inflamed the antagonism between the two men.
Although Mr. Peng's goal in laying a legal foundation in China was the perpetuation of Communist Party rule, in the process, he expanded the participation of the roughly 2,500 members of the National People's Congress in law-making and in the supervision of government. Thus he helped to develop an institution that could take on a larger role in any democratic reform movement that arises in China in the future. For now, the Congress remains largely a rubber stamp for the decisions of the ruling Politburo,
In another example, Mr. Peng was instrumental in promoting village elections in China during the late 1980's as party control over the countryside was in a state of collapse after Mao's system of communes was abandoned by hundreds of millions of peasant farmers. Mr. Peng saw the use of elections, carefully controlled by the party, as a means to stabilize the countryside while also identifying better-qualified and more popular village leaders -- and party recruits.
Born in 1902 to a peasant family in rural Shanxi Province, Mr. Peng joined the Communist Party in 1923. He was arrested and imprisoned for six years in 1929 for his underground work and battled the Japanese invasion of China in the 1930's. After the Communists took power in 1949, he was appointed Mayor of Beijing in 1951. At that time, he enthusiastically helped to purge the country of "class enemies," a campaign that led to hundreds of thousands of deaths.
Though he opposed many of Deng's reforms, he worked closely with Deng at other times, including the 1950's, when he assisted in carrying out a large-scale purge and persecution of intellectuals during Mao's "Anti-Rightist" campaign.
Like many Chinese leaders, Mr. Peng's personal life was well shrouded. He is believed to be survived by a wife and five adult children. His wife, Zhang Jieqing, was his confidential secretary when they married in 1939. The oldest son, Fu Rui, was a police official and now works in China's nuclear industrial corporation. A second son, Fu Ping, is a lawyer in Hebei province. His only daughter, Fu Yan, is in business. A third son, Fu Yang, is a lawyer, and a fourth son, Fu Liang, is a planning official in Hebei Province.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peng Zhen. (Associated Press, 1987) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); 

PERSON: PENG ZHEN; TYLER, PATRICK E MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



602 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Bell Partners' Next Hurdle Is Credibility Size of Deal for Nynex

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
Now comes the easy part.
Bell Atlantic and Nynex completed a regulatory steeplechase last week when the Justice Department announced it would not try to block their $22 billion merger. And though the companies tangled for more than a year with angry consumer advocates, balky state officials and skeptical regulators, their big deal came through without a scratch. 
 Having survived such a protracted approval process, several industry experts said Bell Atlantic and Nynex would find it comparatively easy to meld their operations and turn the combined company into the dominant telecommunications provider on the East Coast.
The hard part may be for competitors and consumers to accept the Government's conclusion that the combination posed no threat to an open marketplace -- at least not as defined by antitrust lawyers.
"The fact that they're a monster is a foregone conclusion," said John F. Malone, president of the Eastern Management Group, a consulting firm in Parsippany, N.J., "Whether they become a friendly monster or an unfriendly monster remains to be seen."
The consumer advocates and other critics are not optimistic. To them, last week's decision was the latest in a string of Federal and state rulings that do not put any curbs on the market power of this vast new company. While the Federal Communications Commission must still sign off on the deal, its approval is expected to be routine.
Gene Kimmelman, the co-director of Consumers Union, said he was particularly distressed that the Justice Department did not impose a consent decree on the companies. "This really demonstrates that the Telecommunications Act by itself is never going to be enough to guarantee competition," he said.
On the face of it, it might seem surprising that the Bell Atlantic-Nynex combination would emerge from the regulators unscathed. It is, after all, the largest communications deal in history and involves two partners separated by the Hudson River.
But so certain of Justice Department approval were the companies in recent weeks that Raymond W. Smith, the chairman of Bell Atlantic, said in an interview after the ruling that the companies were already planning a series of announcements about the management and structure of the combined organization. Even before the Justice Department decision, executives from Bell Atlantic were scouting for space in Nynex's expansive Washington offices.
With 39 million residential and business customers, nearly five million wireless customers and a dominion that stretches from Maine to Virginia, the company will be a formidable competitor to any company that would dare to tread in its 13-state region.
As that notion began to sink in with investors on Friday, Bell Atlantic's shares soared to $63.75, an increase of $5.125, on the New York Stock Exchange, while the shares of Nynex were also up sharply, rising $3.75 to $48.125.
Significantly, the sheer power of the merger did not faze regulators in New York either. The New York State Public Service Commission, despite its reputation as an aggressive overseer, did not ask Nynex to return a penny to bill payers when it signed off on the merger last month. The commission required only that Nynex speed up some capital spending on its aging phone network.
Other big communications and media mergers have not sailed nearly so smoothly. In California, by contrast, regulators required Pacific Telesis to pay $248 million in refunds to customers in return for approving that company's merger with SBC Communications late in March. And when Time Warner announced plans to acquire the Turner Broadcasting System, the Federal Trade Commission forced the partners to modify several aspects of their deal before approving it last fall.
Legal experts said the acquiescence of regulators is rooted in the idea that the combination of Bell Atlantic and Nynex, while huge, does not demonstrably stifle competition in the local telephone business.
Bell Atlantic and Nynex do not compete head to head. And in contrast to the Time Warner-Turner deal, for example, there are no issues of interlocking ownership and distribution of programming.
So to block the Nynex-Bell Atlantic deal, the Government would have had to demonstrate that it would strangle potential, as opposed to actual, competition in the markets served by the two companies. While lawyers are intrigued by the theory of potential competition, it has never been tested at the Supreme Court.
"This is what we call a conglomerate merger, and antitrust law has never been very effective in handling conglomerate mergers," said Edward Correia, a professor at Northeastern University Law School.
Given the increasingly global nature of communications, some experts argue that huge conglomerates are actually good for competition.
Daniel Reingold, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said in a report on Friday that the combined Bell Atlantic, as the new company will be known, could compete for the international voice traffic now carried by AT&T, MCI Communications and overseas carriers like British Telecom (which has a deal pending to acquire MCI).
And David J. Roddy, chief telecommunications economist at Deloitte & Touche, said Bell Atlantic's size would make it a more effective competitor in the domestic long-distance business against AT&T, MCI and Sprint.
Then, too, there is always a chance that the merger will prove less than the sum of its parts. "If you take one 250-pound gorilla and combine it with another 250-pound gorilla," Mr. Malone, the consultant said, "you could end up with a 500-pound gorilla with fat thighs who may move slowly." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NYNEX CORP; BELL ATLANTIC CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NYNEX CORP; BELL ATLANTIC CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); MERGERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



603 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1941 words

HEADLINE: 5 Years After Los Angeles Riots, Inner City Still Cries Out for Jobs

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 26

 BODY:
Five years ago, as this troubled city limped away from three deadly days of rioting, civic leaders seized on the idea that the best way to repair the damage and quell the discontent was to create jobs, particularly for inner-city residents like Johnny Sight.
Mr. Sight, part Hispanic and part black, just like the smoldering South-Central Los Angeles neighborhood in which he grew up, is an engineer who had lost his aerospace job and was facing formidable hurdles in finding a new opportunity. He was caught between massive reductions in defense spending and what he felt was discrimination against inner-city residents. 
 Shellshocked officials drew up hasty plans to battle those trends. In one of the largest job campaigns in history, the government spent or lent $879 million toward reconstruction; big corporations promised to invest nearly $600 million dollars in the inner city. And in what seemed like one small success for the renewal effort, Mr. Sight found work as a computer software developer.
Look closer, however, and the reality is more complicated. Mr. Sight's job pays 20 percent less than his last full-time position. His employer, a small software company called Positive Technology, has received no assistance from any government agency or any of the organizations founded after the riots, despite having been formed specifically to offer jobs to inner-city residents.
And the job is in Santa Monica, far from the rugged streets where Mr. Sight lives near central Los Angeles. But that is all right with him. Mr. Sight sees the job as a stepping stone out of his damaged neighborhood rather than an opportunity to refurbish it.
"I know quite a few people who are just as qualified as me and just haven't gotten the breaks," he said. "And even with this, I'm still not in the mainstream of things in my business. When things get better for me, I'm looking to leave."
Some of Los Angeles's charred neighborhoods have been rebuilt. Of the 1,100 buildings damaged, more than three-quarters have been repaired, including 149 gas stations and 35 supermarkets. Chains like Smart & Final, a warehouse grocer, and Chief Auto Parts have constructed new outlets.
But the city remains divided over the apparent lack of progress in bringing enough jobs to the inner city. Five years after the rioting, which was spawned by the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist, there is a continuing debate over what role the government should play in urban revival; about how much broader economic forces, like free trade and immigration, are influencing the inner city; about the role of discrimination in the city's economic life. And there is disagreement about whether rapid progress can be expected under any circumstances.
With Los Angeles recovering from a deep recession, the overall number of jobs in the riot zone is up since 1992. But the unemployment rate in South-Central and other communities damaged in the rioting that began on April 29, 1992, is more than 30 percent among black youths, economists estimate. Per capita income, at $8,300, is less than half the average for Los Angeles County. Many manufacturing and health care companies once situated in these areas continue to leave for the suburbs or beyond.
Meanwhile, many of the jobs being created in the inner city pay less than $8 an hour and provide no health benefits.
"I don't want to sound pessimistic, but yes, we're losing the battle to keep companies here," said Ahmed Enany, executive director of the Southern California Biomedical Council, which has sought to bring investment to the inner city.
"There's an issue of image in these neighborhoods," he added. "People don't want to locate there. Everyone we speak to says so."
Yet for all the disappointments, there are also some important glimmers of hope -- glimmers that are helping define the next generation of policies for dealing with the glaring economic weaknesses in inner-city Los Angeles and other urban centers.
The trends, if not terribly innovative, reflect a city's sober assessment of both its challenges and its resources. They include a growing reliance on small businesses, rather than big corporations, to create opportunities; an emphasis on giving people job skills rather than creating make-work jobs that may not last; and a focus on creating jobs not just in the inner city but in other parts of the region and then making it easier for inner-city residents to win those positions and commute to them.
These are all attempts to deal with two phenomena. On the one hand is the shrinking ambition of government initiatives. On the other is what many in Los Angeles describe as corporate burnout: Many companies contributed to the early efforts to revitalize the inner city then watched the programs fizzle, and they lost heart.
"I'm finding that companies don't even want to throw money any more at these problems," said Adi Lieberman, an aide to Ruth Galanter, a city councilwoman.
Mr. Lieberman has been negotiating a deal with Dreamworks SKG, the entertainment company, to create jobs for inner-city residents at the multibillion-dollar film studio it is trying to build at Playa Vista, a site in western Los Angeles. Dreamworks would receive $110 million in government incentives in exchange for providing job training and hiring minority-owned companies to provide services at the complex.
Some community leaders have criticized the plan because it will not guarantee jobs for any inner-city residents. But Mr. Lieberman said it was the best that could be achieved.
"Right now, we don't have anything that works," he said, surveying the landscape of disappointing programs. "We've spent tens of millions of dollars, and we don't have much to show."
Government and corporate programs have done a relatively good job of repairing pockets of damage, but many have focused more on stemming job losses than creating jobs.
Last year, the Federal Government started a community development bank that will be able to make $430 million in loans to companies within areas damaged by the riots. But the bank made just $6.2 million in loans in its first year, well below community expectations.
The first loan, for $700,000, was a salvage operation. Manuel Burgess and a partner used the money to buy a textile company, Trinity Knitworks, which was slated to be closed and where Mr. Burgess had worked for 23 years. The loan rescued 100 or so jobs; Mr. Burgess said his workers earned $6 to $8 an hour on average, with only a tiny percentage receiving health benefits.
"Poverty is still growing," said Denise Fairchild, president of Community Development Technical Center, a job training program in Los Angeles. "There is definitely a trend toward more and more poor people living in isolation in some of these areas."
There has been progress, she said, but it has been slow. "I'm not sure how to say this without sounding inflammatory, but L.A. could go up in flames again," she said.
And while Melba Jackson Carter, director of a youth training center financed by Shell Oil, spoke glowingly of the jobs being found by the program's 160 graduates each year, she acknowledged, "It's a grain of sand."
There was recognition of the great needs of Los Angeles' inner city after the Watts riots of 1965, as well.
A commission formed to analyze that uprising recommended, among other things, that 50,000 jobs ought to be created in South-Central Los Angeles.
One project that seemed to work was a 52-acre industrial park built near Watts. The largest tenant was the Lockheed Corporation, an aerospace company, and hundreds found jobs. But many of those inner-city residents used the jobs to flee rather than rebuild their neighborhoods. And over time, Lockheed and other manufacturing companies with high-paying jobs left.
Today, the old aerospace plant is a trucking warehouse. The 1,500 or so jobs now generally pay less than those that were lost. That has nothing to do with the riots and everything to do with important economic changes affecting the whole country: cuts in government spending, the shift of many factory jobs overseas and heavy pressure on companies to trim costs to remain competitive.
"Los Angeles has been held hostage to bigger economic and political forces," said Peter Dreier, a professor at Occidental College here and the co-author of a recent report on regional development. "That created much of the despair in the riot neighborhoods."
Instead of a commission, after the unrest in 1992 there was a snap decision that jobs would solve the problems and that the private sector, not government, had to lead the way. An organization called Rebuild LA was formed to channel an expected tidal wave of corporate investment. Companies from I.B.M. to BankAmerica offered aid.
That initial effort is now perceived to have largely failed. One reason is that some companies lost interest after the publicity subsided; others decided that the inner city was simply not a good place for computer factories and the like.
Another reason is that many programs were built on the premise that there was no real economy in the inner city beyond a handful of bodegas and cheap restaurants.
After a couple of years, Rebuild LA essentially was reborn with a radical new premise: that the existing economy in the inner city, rich with small manufacturing companies that had long been ignored by the business leadership, ought to be given the means to grow.
A survey found more than 15,000 companies employing about 360,000 people in the inner city, in industries ranging from garment-making to food processing to biomedicine. Networks were created to help inner-city plants develop new markets and, over time, increase both the number of jobs and the wages they offer.
The new approach meant accepting an extremely slow pace of improvement. It meant working with small companies and entrepreneurs and providing expertise rather than government assistance. It assumed that big corporations did not know what was best for the inner city.
"I'm going to tell you: We simply aren't going to get the jobs from those kinds of factories," said Linda Griego, the chief executive of Rebuild LA, which officially goes out of business with this fifth anniversary. "Let's build the companies that are already working."
Another premise of the new strategy is that the aim should not be simply to create jobs in the inner city. Rather, the idea is that if a good job exists, for instance, in the San Fernando Valley, policies should be adopted that make it easier for qualified inner-city residents to obtain -- and get to -- such jobs.
Manuel Pastor Jr., a research fellow at Occidental College and co-author of a study encouraging this strategy, found that a person in Compton, a riot-affected city south of Los Angeles, earned 15 percent less on average than someone in the middle-class town of Glendale with the same skills, experience and background. The reason, he said, was the so-called neighborhood effect, in which people frequently get their jobs from contacts in their community.
Getting people out of their neighborhoods, Mr. Pastor argues, is thus one of the only ways to break this cycle and to break down the isolation that contributed to the hostility of 1992.
"Before, people talked about what could be done for the inner city like it was a separate country," Mr. Pastor said. "What we are trying to do now is say the inner city is part of the city, part of the region, and that inner-city people ought to be able to get jobs anywhere in that region. It sounds simple until you look at the barriers."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "On the Bottom Rung" shows how the targets of rebuilding efforts after the 1992 riots, the "economically neglected areas" (E.N.A.'s) of Los Angeles County, compare with the county as a whole. E.N.A.'s are areas with more than 30 percent of familes in poverty. Figures are 1996 estimates. (Source: Rebuild LA); "Pouring Money In" -- Nearly $1.4 billion in grants, loand and other kinds of public and private money have been invested in trying to rebuild and revitalize low-income areas of Los Angeles since the riots of April 1992. Graph show breakdowns from corporations and from goverment. (Source: Rebuild LA; government reports); "Out of Work" tracks average the unemployment rates in the U.S. and in the City of Los Angeles, since 1991. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SMF (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SMART & FINAL INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; BLACKS; WAGES AND SALARIES RIOTS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); CITY LIFE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); POVERTY RATES (66%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: KING, RODNEY GLEN; STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



604 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Budget Negotiators Step Gingerly Toward Deal

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
After years of partisan warfare over balancing the Federal budget, the White House and Congressional Republicans enter this week closer to a deal than ever before. But both sides are still wary that the delicate negotiations could collapse under an array of political pressures, officials said today.
After trading offers last week on critical components of any budget package, including tax cuts, spending levels for domestic and military programs and reductions in the rapid growth of Medicare expenditures, both sides now say their biggest problem is not the numerical gap between them, but finding a structure that allows both sides to claim victory on their priority issues. 
 Republican negotiators continue to insist that they cannot sell any deal to their party that does not include reductions in capital gains taxes, for example. But the Clinton Administration is arguing that it will not be able to bring Congressional Democrats along if its proposals on education, the environment and welfare are not accommodated, people involved in the talks said.
Discussions in coming days are likely to cover some of the most politically sensitive topics the negotiators have faced as they look for ways to pay for both sides' demands. Both sides have expressed some willingness to reduce the cost-of-living adjustments paid to Social Security recipients, a step that could set off explosive opposition from the elderly and other interest groups but that could save tens of billions of dollars over the next five years.
Republicans will also have to decide whether they are willing to accept the slightly more optimistic economic assumptions used by the Administration in calculating the size of future deficits, a largely technical step but one that could reduce the necessary spending cuts by billions of dollars a year. Republicans in earlier years have adamantly opposed such a move, saying the Administration's numbers could not be trusted, but they have softened their opposition as the White House's figures have proved credible, and they seem likely to agree to a compromise.
"We will know within a few days if we can get an agreement early or not," President Clinton said in an interview broadcast today on the CBS News program "Face the Nation."
"I think there's a good chance we can," Mr. Clinton said, adding that negotiations had reached a stage at which "the less we say about it in public and the more we work these things through, the better."
The budget negotiators hope to reach a deal by the time Mr. Clinton leaves on a trip to Central and South America on May 5. Republicans have made clear that if no bipartisan agreement is reached by then, they will press ahead in Congress with a budget blueprint of their own.
Although negotiations would no doubt continue if no deal is struck this week, both sides have warned that reaching an agreement will only become more difficult as the wings of both parties exert pressure on moderates to eschew any compromises.
Indeed, because the talks up to this point have been dominated by moderate pragmatists from both sides, both Republicans and Democrats said one of the biggest challenges to finalizing any deal would be selling it to their own parties. Both liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans have been warning leaders of their parties not to sell out their principles to get a deal.
Although leaders of both parties have long since conceded that they will lose the extremists in their ranks in any compromise, they remain unsure whether they will be able to fashion a broad-based coalition of moderates willing to withstand the political pressure that would come from giving even a partial victory to the other side.
Officials said some of this week's negotiating sessions would be held in secret. Administration officials, including Franklin D. Raines, the budget chief, John Hilley, the Congressional liaison, and Gene Sperling, the chairman of the National Economic Council, have been working closely with a Republican team led by Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico and Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio. Congressional Democrats have been represented in the talks by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey and Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina.
On taxes, Republicans have reduced their initial demand for $200 billion in cuts over the next five years to $150 billion, partly paid for by nearly $50 billion raised by extending existing taxes or closing loopholes. The Administration has raised its offer of $98 billion in cuts to $125 billion, both offset by $76 billion from extending taxes and closing loopholes.
On Medicare, which has been one of the most divisive issues of the last several years, the Republicans want to cut the planned spending growth by $126 billion over five years, while the Administration's latest offer is $105 billion, up from an earlier proposal of $100 billion.
Both sides said that perhaps the most difficult remaining disagreement was over financing for domestic programs, where Republicans are seeking cuts roughly twice as deep as those the Clinton Administration and Congressional Democrats have been willing to consider. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (52%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



605 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING: Bluegrass Is Back on the Menu;
Claiborne Farm Raises Another Derby Favorite

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO 

DATELINE: PARIS, Ky., April 26

 BODY:
Queen Elizabeth once came to lunch at Claiborne Farm. Secretariat was once syndicated for $6.1 million there, reigned as a stallion there and now lies buried there. Bold Ruler and Round Table were born on the same day there. Mr. Prospector still stands there at the advanced age of 27 as the senior sire and head of a family of 205 sons still active as sires and with heirs who have won close to $100 million in racing purses.
But the star of the show at Claiborne Farm these spring days is Pulpit, a 3-year-old colt who was born and bred there, whose mother still lives there and whose future was heralded when the stable manager ranked him in writing three years ago as "best foal on the farm." 
 They will find out if Pulpit has grown into the best colt in America on Saturday when he goes to the post as one of the favorites in the 123d Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs, 70 miles up the interstate from his elegant and stately home founded nearly 90 years ago by A. B. Hancock Sr.
He will carry 126 pounds of weight and tons of tradition. Claiborne Farm, home of champions, jewel of the blue bloods and the bluegrass, is trying to win its first Derby since Swale won 13 years ago and to add to its role in the horse society in an age when the Derby is often won by blue-collar horses owned by syndicates of nouveau riche investors.
For example, Pulpit's chief rival, Captain Bodgit, is owned by a syndicate of 32 shareholders from Hawaii to Canada to Florida. They include a radio talk-show host, a former member of Congress, the chief financial officer of a computer software company, the chief executive of a women's wear catalogue company, four retired businessmen, five lawyers, a stockbroker, the counselor to the United States Ambassador to Liberia and an insurance executive.
But the Hancock family of Claiborne Farm will be trying to win the Derby with a horse who did not race anywhere as a juvenile last year. If he pulls it off, Pulpit will become the first horse since Apollo, 115 years ago, to win the Derby in his first season at the races. He has won four of his five starts, but he represents a way of manor life that is fading from the Kentucky landscape.
Dell Hancock, a granddaughter of the farm's founder and one of the four children of the man who made Claiborne Farm famous, the late, legendary A. B. (Bull) Hancock, said: "Somebody once said Pulpit was racing against history. I said I hope he makes history."
Dell Hancock drove around the great spread as the family's designated spokeswoman, marveling at the size and star quality of its herd and the history already made on its 3,400 acres. She drove past placid fields and star-studded barns with 17 stallions with names such as Mr. Prospector, Danzig, Unbridled, Devil's Bag, Cox's Ridge and Go for Gin, and with 200 mares such as Personal Ensign, Versailles Treaty and Inside Information.
Even the headstones in the neatly mowed cemetery behind the business office read like a marquee of great horses of the past: Secretariat, 1970-1989; Nijinsky II, 1967-1992; Round Table, 1954-1987; Hoist the Flag, 1968-1980; Buckpasser, 1963-1978; Bold Ruler, 1954-1971, and Gallant Fox, 1927-1953.
There is history, and even soap opera, in the air. And great success: In the 1973 Kentucky Derby alone, Secretariat finished first, Sham second and Forego fourth, and, Dell Hancock said, "We raised them all."
"My grandfather, A. B. Hancock Sr., came here in 1908 to judge a yearling show," she related, "and met and married my grandmother. Two years later, he started the farm with 13 acres. They were married in that house over there, and my father was born there and my brother Seth lives there with his wife and two children.
"My father expanded the farm, piece by piece. And the boys always worked on the farm. They swept out the barns. They'd get a penny a gate for every parcel of land they cleaned.
"The first big horse I can remember running in the Claiborne silks was Round Table in the 1950's. Dad always said that when he sold Round Table to the Kerr family, he was able to pay the mortgage and taxes on the farm and keep going."
Bull Hancock not only kept it going, but also expanded it by buying adjacent property until it grew into the largest and most successful horse farm in the area, still the center of horse breeding and racing in the country.
It now stretches from its own stone gates into the town of Paris a mile and a half away. It is a town in itself, with a resident veterinarian and a herd of cattle bought in the spring and sold in the fall (after fattening in the summer). Artists and photographers frequently roam, by appointment, to record the orderly activity and breathtaking scenery.
During this spring alone, 190 foals will be born on the farm for its clients as well as its own racing stable. They will spend the summer with their mothers and foster nursing mothers, and in early October they will be weaned in one mass turnover. Then they will move on, although some (like Pulpit when he was a weanling) will stay and eventually race in Claiborne's yellow silks.
"My mother always told us," Dell Hancock said, "how they would parade the horses down the main street in Paris on the same day and take them to the railroad to ship them to the horse sales. They would parade down in one continuous line, and it must have been fantastic."
Bull Hancock, who got the nickname in high school, took charge of Claiborne in 1949 and ran it until he died in 1972. He left a dynamic wife, Waddell, and four children: two sons, Arthur and Seth, and two daughters, Clay and Dell, the youngest.
The family fabric was strained when the trustees who ran the farm's business affairs decided to place management control with Seth, the younger brother, who they believed was more serious than Arthur.
Consequently, Arthur sold his share of the farm, moved down the road four miles and started the Stone Farm, where he lives with his wife and six children and where he has achieved success in breeding and racing horses. Some of his finest moments came in 1989 when his colt Sunday Silence won the Kentucky Derby and the Breeders' Cup Classic, outrunning Easy Goer, the star of the Ogden Phipps family, which is the first client of Claiborne Farm.
But time and tradition healed the brothers' differences, and their sister Dell said they were again "a close family."
Waddell Hancock lives in the imposing white house overlooking the farm; Clay, who does some consulting as an interior designer, lives in another house; Dell, a photographer, lives in a brick cottage in another part of the farm, and Seth and his family occupy the ancestral house where their grandparents were wed. Seth avoids the spotlight and the news media, leaving Dell to serve as the voice of the family.
The bluegrass fields are filled with mares and their foals these days. Personal Ensign was led to one pasture with her baby, and both began to romp. Preach, the mother of Pulpit, was waiting in the field with her baby. The nameplates of other Claiborne winners are attached to stall doors: Time for a Change, Dignitas, Scan, Dapper Dan. One nameplate to come: Pulpit.
"You had to win $100,000 in a stakes," Dell Hancock said, "then your name would go on the door. Now, inflation has set in, so you have to win $200,000 in a graded stakes. We usually put the names up at the end of the year. Pulpit won the Blue Grass.
"But if we get lucky on the first Saturday in May," she ventured, "we may put his name up early."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Pulpit's dam, Preach, grazed at Claiborne on Saturday with her latest foal, just 2 days old. Dell Hancock, right, at a board used to track the farm's horses. (Christina M. Freitag for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Pulpit, left (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times), under Shane Sellers, could bring a Kentucky Derby title to Claiborne Farm, above, where many champions were bred, raised, weaned, retired and buried. (Christina M. Freitag for The New York Times) (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLAIBORNE FARM

ORGANIZATION: CLAIBORNE FARM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; KENTUCKY DERBY; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BREEDING OF ANIMALS HORSES (91%); HORSE RACING (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (57%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



606 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Big Industrial Nations Warn Dollar Rise Must Be Halted

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
In a significant new warning that the dollar's rise against the Japanese yen must stop, finance ministers and central bankers of seven leading industrial nations strongly hinted today that they would intervene in the currency markets, if necessary, to keep Japan's trade surpluses in check.
The warning came at the conclusion of a semiannual meeting of the ministers and bank governors here today, their first gathering since the Group of Seven nations called for a halt to the dollar's rise in Berlin in February. Since then, the dollar has largely continued to move up against both the yen and the German mark. 
 [Early Monday in Pacific region currency markets, the dollar rose on the Group of Seven's statement, before yielding some of its gains later in the day.]
While the dollar has not reached alarming levels in the minds of Clinton Administration officials, the President's economic advisers have signaled concern in recent weeks that the weakness of the yen is fueling a renewed flood of Japanese imports into the United States. On Friday, Mr. Clinton told Japan's Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, that if the trend continued, it could lead to a new round of political tensions between Washington and Tokyo.
So far, Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin has let drop very few hints about how high the Government is willing to see the dollar rise before intervening. But today's statement by the Group of Seven was the first to directly link that decision to concern about Japanese trade imbalances with the United States and others.
"We agreed that exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals and that excess volatility and significant deviations from fundamentals are undesirable," the ministers and bankers said in a communique after their meeting.
Their statements -- which are instantly scrutinized, debated and sometimes challenged by currency traders around the world -- continued, "In this context, we emphasized the importance of avoiding exchange rates that could lead to the re-emergence of large external imbalances."
It is difficult to tell from the communique exactly how concerned the ministers are about the dollar's continued rise. But after today's meetings, the governor of the Bank of England, Eddie George, told reporters that there had been "no pressure" at the talks for an immediate intervention by the central banks of the Group of Seven countries: the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.
The dollar-yen exchange rate was "talked about in a broader context" of maintaining growth through domestic demand, Mr. George said, adding, "To some extent, it's just that we're perpetual pessimists."
As they met today to debate exchange rates, each of the finance ministers knew that they were walking a tightrope, and that a strategic slip could have enormous implications.
Both the future of Japan's sputtering economic recovery and of Europe's chances of achieving monetary union two years from now hinge in large part on how the Group of Seven manages exchange rates. But the ministers also know that there is no magic rate that insures prosperity and that indeed there are dangers whether the dollar moves sharply up or sharply down.
So in public, at least, Tokyo, Bonn and Washington have said that the most important goal is stability, and that the dollar must not rise further. That was the message of their last meeting in February, after the dollar had posted a 38 percent increase against the yen and a 20 percent increase against the mark in the space of a year.
Two days before the opening of that session, Mr. Rubin signaled that he thought the increase had gone far enough, declaring, in his deliberately cryptic way, that while the United States supported a strong dollar, "we have had a strong dollar for some time now."
The Group of Seven ministers endorsed that view, and Mr. Rubin's comments were interpreted by the markets as a signal that further rises could be met by unannounced interventions. Such a threat is meant to deter speculators who might otherwise be tempted to drive the dollar up further on world currency markets, but are held back by fear that a coordinated round of dollar-selling by central banks could cost them tens of millions of dollars in losses.
Yet, in recent weeks the dollar has been creeping up again, testing the elasticity of Mr. Rubin's tolerance. The question now is whether Japan and Germany, under pressure at home to spur growth, are prepared to keep their currencies from sliding further.
Japanese manufacturers have been delighted by the yen's fall, because it makes their exported goods less expensive -- and thus far more competitive -- elsewhere. Japanese auto makers are seeing their market share in the United States rebound; recently, the Honda Motor Company said it would greatly increase the number of cars it is importing here.
And in Tokyo a few weeks ago, a senior official of the giant electronics maker NEC could scarcely contain his glee at the dollar's strength. "We had gotten to the point where our goods were barely competitive at 100 yen to the dollar," he said. "At 125, we are finally making profits." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN BANK OF ENGLAND (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; WASHINGTON (DC); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); GERMAN MARK (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); POLITICS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997



607 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: Business To Business On the Internet;
Companies Go on Line To Trim Costs and Find Ways to Make Money, Too

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
As the leading maker of the networking gear that keeps the Internet running, Cisco Systems Inc. is an Internet company through and through. Yet recently, Cisco has increased its bet on the Net even further.
The Silicon Valley company not only sells Internet equipment, but since August it has been selling its gear on the Internet. The results have been impressive -- and could portend how businesses may finally turn the Internet into a money-making medium. 
 Sales from Cisco's site on the Internet's World Wide Web have reached nearly $5 million a day, or more than $1 billion a year. By July, the company expects its rate of on-line revenue to hit $2 billion a year, or nearly one-third of its total sales.
And the on-line order-taking is just one Cisco operation that has moved onto the Internet. Its credit checking, production scheduling, basic technical support and routine customer-support inquiries are also handled on line. The benefits, Cisco says, are faster service, quicker production cycles and savings -- measured in everything from labor costs to printing charges -- of $535 million a year.
As a wired Silicon Valley company, of course, Cisco can move its business-to-business dealings onto the Internet sooner than many others. But Peter Solvik, Cisco's chief information officer, insists that before long companies in any field can do the same.
"As the Internet gets fully deployed, what we're doing is going to become commonplace," Mr. Solvik said. "Business-to-business commerce is the killer application of the Internet."
The promise of cyberspace has typically been portrayed by technology enthusiasts in visionary terms -- a populist vision of on-line shopping, playing games, watching movies and doing homework. No facet of entertainment or education, culture or commerce, and certainly no American household will be untouched by the technological transformation led by the Internet, the visionaries say.
Someday, it may happen -- as it did with the telephone, initially an instrument of business-to-business communications that only later became a household necessity. Yet to glimpse the biggest opportunity for using Internet technology soon, shift focus from the visions to the details inside the gray offices of corporate America, where workers handle chores like purchasing, customer service and employee benefits.
These tasks make up many of the nuts-and-bolts operations of the modern economy, consuming millions of hours of labor and hundreds of billions of dollars. If such work can be made more efficient, the economic payoff could be considerable. No wonder companies have come to view Internet technology as a communications tool that can reduce the expense of many transactions, whether buying factory equipment from outside suppliers or processing expense accounts.
Various electronic systems for linking businesses have been available for years, but these usually required costly private data networks and tailor-made software. As such, these first-generation electronic communications were available only to an elite group of big companies and their chief suppliers. But Internet technology -- a set of public domain software standards and a global web of computer networks -- is transforming these economics, making it cheaper and easier to set up in-house corporate networks and establish electronic ties with outsiders of all sizes.
As a result, the corporate dash to the Internet is not merely for big companies from Silicon Valley to Detroit. The race also includes thousands of small strivers, like the Dakota Electric Supply Company in Fargo, N.D., and the Strong Tool Company of Cleveland.
Today's corporate uses of Internet technology fall into two broad categories: electronic communications inside the company walls, which often replace mountains of paperwork; and electronic communication outside the company walls, as a means of conducting business-to-business commerce or sharing information with suppliers and customers anywhere in the world.
"We're trying to reduce transaction costs, and the Internet is the way to do it," said Arne Breikjern, a marketing manager at Dakota Electric Supply, a 125-person concern that sells goods ranging from light switches to telephone cable. "That's as true for us in North Dakota as it is in Silicon Valley."
Dakota Electric Supply's Internet site on the World Wide Web went up last October on a business-to-business commerce service run by the International Business Machines Corporation. Dakota Electric Supply, a $40 million-a-year business, has invested $5,000 on the site so far. And, though the network has received E-mail nibbles from as far away as Australia, sales have been scarce.
Still, Mr. Breikjern is not discouraged by the slow start. "I have absolutely no doubt that a large portion, perhaps even a majority, of our business will be done on the Internet someday," he said.
Lured by the Internet's cost-saving appeal, thousands of corporate newcomers to cyberspace are expected to begin selling goods to one another on line, whether power turbines or toilet paper. Such business-to-business commerce, estimated at $600 million last year, is projected to soar to $66 billion by 2000, according to Forrester Research Inc., a technology research firm.
And consumer commerce will lag far behind, Forrester predicts. By 2000, the research firm estimates, on-line retailing will increase to $7 billion. That would be up sharply from last year's $530 million but still only a fraction of the anticipated market in business-to-business sales.
Predictably, high-technology companies have taken an early lead in Internet commerce.
The Dell Computer Corporation, for example, began selling its personal computers on a Web site last July, and its Internet sales are now more than $1 million a day. And that is merely a start, insists Michael Dell, the company's chairman.
Most of Dell's Internet sales to date have been to small businesses and individuals. But the company has started to set up tailored Web sites for its largest corporate customers. Because 90 percent of Dell Computer's $10 billion in yearly revenue comes from sales to corporations, "our goal is to eventually handle all our transactions on line," Mr. Dell said.
And the commercial opportunities range far beyond PC sales, as the General Electric Company, an industrial Internet leader, has made clear. Last year, the company began operating its Trading Process Network, a Web-based service linking corporate buyers and sellers. It was used first by the company's businesses, led by GE Lighting, which found it could cut procurement times by 50 percent and costs by 30 percent. By this summer, General Electric projects that its purchases over the Internet will be running at $1 billion a year.
General Electric also hopes to make money by charging other companies for conducting transactions on its Web-based service. For example, the Textron Automotive Company, which makes parts for the auto industry, plans to shop for $500 million a year in materials using General Electric's Internet mart, where various suppliers would display their wares.
To compete, other companies like I.B.M. and Nets Inc. are building industrial malls on the Internet. These on-line marketplaces are intended to allow companies to exchange not just bids and prices but blueprints, electronic spreadsheets and even digitized training videos.
"Procurement is a huge piece of the corporate cost structure; that's why companies are excited by the Internet now," said Harvey F. Seegers, president of GE Information Services, the unit that runs G.E.'s Internet commerce operation. Mr. Seegers noted that procurement and the cost of materials could represent as much as half of the total expenses of a manufacturing company.
For years, most company-to-company electronic commerce involved an approach known as electronic data interchange, or E.D.I., which uses private networks and specialized software. As a result, E.D.I. has remained the province of large companies and their captive suppliers, used by 5 percent of American companies.
Large companies have used these private data networks as powerful competitive tools to streamline their procurement and distribution, curbing inventories, cutting prices and lifting profits. Perhaps the best-known information technology innovator of this stripe has been Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
But Internet technology has made it affordable for smaller companies to deploy information technology in ways that were once available only to the giants.
"These company-to-company electronic links are just starting to become possible for huge numbers of companies, not just a few," said Marc Andreessen, co-founder of the Netscape Communications Corporation, an Internet software maker. "Everybody can be a Wal-Mart now."
Still, the president of one of those smaller companies, Robert Kraisner of the Strong Tool Company, has no ambitions of Wal-Mart-style success. Instead, he hopes that by venturing onto the Internet, his company will increase its chances of simply surviving.
Strong Tool is a 120-person distributor and designer of cutting tools, selling to the auto and steel industries. The big companies, Mr. Kraisner said, are shrinking the number of suppliers from whom they buy directly and are demanding price cuts while farming out more of their assembly and component production to smaller companies.
Those forces, Mr. Kraisner said, make the old methods of sales and distribution -- an overlapping mixture of E.D.I., fax, phone and legwork -- simply too costly. Strong Tool, which has E.D.I. links with some large customers, now has its own Web site on an Internet industrial marketplace. In the early months, the benefit has been mostly good leads and a few sales, including a $90,000 order from Indonesia last year for grinding wheels.
Mr. Kraisner concedes that his foray onto the Internet is mainly an investment in the future, but one he feels he must make. "If you don't adapt to the Internet -- this new medium for communicating with our customers and suppliers -- you could be out of business soon," he said.

GRAPHIC: Charts/Photos: "From Seller . . ."
Cisco Systems, which makes networking equipment, estimates that it saves $535 million a year by using the Internet for sales and customer service, as monitored, right, by Lydia Jardine, a Cisco "network commmerce representative." Here is a look at how the processes work once a customer has established an account with Cisco.
 
BUYING AND SELLLING
 
Traditional way
The customer fills out a purchase request form and faxes it to Cisco. A Cisco employee types the information into the company's order system. Other employees, using this internal system, must then confirm the accuracy of the customer information and schedule manufacturing of the requested products. Cisco figures that one out of every four times the forms have enough mistakes that the customer must start over again.
 
New way
The customer goes to the Cisco Web site and enters the purchase request onto an electronic page. The on-line order form is rejected by screening software if there is a problem, so the customer can correct it immediately. The completed request goest directly into an order data base, which allows production scheduling to be handled electronically. Cisco estimates that the time from order entry to production has been cut in half.
 
SERVICE AND SUPPORT
 
Traditional Way
The customer calls to check the status of an order, request service or ask for a software upgrade. A customer service agent taps into Cisco's internal computer system to check the status of an order. New software is mailed to customers on computer disks.
 
New Way
Through the Web site, certified customers with passwords get direct access to the computer systems that monitor Cisco's operations. They can check the status of orders, find answers to technical questions and download new software. With on-line self-help for customers, Cisco estimates that it averts 250,000 phone calls a month.
 
". . . to Buyer"
The benefit to Cisco customers like Jason Valore, a buyer for Comstor Innovative Distribution Services, which designs and installs computer networks, is faster, more accurate orders. That translates to better service to Comstor's own clients. (Photographs by Audrey Shehyn for The New York Times, top; Erik Freeland/Matrix for The New York Times, above; wires and adapters by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Money-Saving Medium" provides a breakdown of the money Cisco estimates it saves on operational costs each year through the Internet. (Source: Cisco Systems) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INTERNET & WWW (92%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



608 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Ads Seek to Push Pataki and D'Amato Into Debate on Rent

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
In a sharp escalation of the fight over rent regulations, New York State Democratic officials said yesterday that they would start an advertising campaign urging voters to hold Gov. George E. Pataki and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato personally responsible if the State Legislature allows rent control laws to expire in June.
The campaign, set to begin tomorrow on television and radio shows, is intended to push the state's two most powerful Republicans to use their influence to preserve the rent laws, which restrict rent increases in more than one million apartments in New York City and its suburbs. 
 Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato have until now largely avoided the thicket of what has emerged as the most heated political debate of the year.
The advertising campaign is modest -- costing about $100,000 -- and its placement on television news broadcasts and all-news radio stations means that Democratic strategists are aiming more at opinion leaders and less at the general public. But party strategists said that they believed the advertisements could affect both the dynamics of this year's debate in Albany and next year's statewide elections, when Mr. D'Amato and Mr. Pataki will be facing re-election. Both men are counting on winning a substantial number of votes in the New York City area, and thus would be expected to have a keen interest in the outcome of the rent debate.
The advertisements could have one other political effect. Most politicians say they believe that Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato have held back as part of a strategy in which they will emerge at the last moment of the dispute, helping to forge a compromise between Senate Republicans and Assembly Democrats, and Mr. Pataki has almost acknowledged as much.
The advertisements, which point to past positions and statements by both men that appear to be inimical to rent regulations, will complicate their efforts to claim political credit for any such compromise.
The driving force behind the effort to let the rent laws expire after June 15 has been Senator Joseph L. Bruno. Mr. D'Amato predicted yesterday that any changes in rent control would be far less drastic than what Mr. Bruno, his ally and the Republican majority leader of the State Senate, has threatened. Senator D'Amato said he doubted that such changes would be felt by most New Yorkers, and he added that he supported some rollbacks in protections for wealthier tenants.
Still, the advertisements suggest that Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato, who wield considerable influence over Mr. Bruno, should be held just as responsible as Mr. Bruno.
"Who's really behind the threat to end rent protection for two million New York tenants?" the announcer in the advertisement says, speaking over the swells of edgy orchestral music. "It's the Republican team of Governor Pataki and Senator D'Amato."
Republicans swiftly denounced the State Democratic Party's advertisements, the latest episode in which a New York State political party has tried to affect the course of legislation through hard-hitting television advertising. "It's a rather desperate attempt to try to distort the Governor's record and my record," Mr. D'Amato said. "It has no substance. No credence. I have publicly said you cannot permit middle-class families and working families and poor families to go without protection. Can't do it."
"People who are trying to politicize this and frighten people are wrong," the Senator said. "They should be ashamed of themselves."
Mr. Pataki's chief spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, said, "It's truly unfortunate that the Democratic Party wants to engage in fear-mongering instead of good government."
Still, the advertisements by the State Democratic Party serve to point out a central, if little-remarked-upon, fact in this fight: Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato are the most powerful Republicans in the state and have the clout and the motivation to heavily influence the outcome of the dispute, given the 1998 election contests and because rent control is something of a third-rail in metropolitan politics.
In fact, Mr. Bruno, the guiding force in the effort to eliminate rent regulations, was installed in his position by Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato, and is thus considered highly susceptible to pressure by the two men on this issue.
Most politicians in Albany believe the dispute will ultimately be resolved with Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato intervening to force Mr. Bruno to retreat, rather than risk what could be a politically ruinous episode in which rent regulations are abolished or significantly watered down.
"They control the Republican Party," said Hank Morris, the political consultant who produced the Democratic Party advertisement and is also working for the Senate campaign of Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Democrat who is seeking Mr. D'Amato's seat.
"Pataki and D'Amato are the people who decide what the Republican Party does," Mr. Morris said. "Joe Bruno does what they want. It's time for them to come out of hiding and solve this crisis, which they and their political cronies created."
Mr. Pataki has been noncommittal about his own position on rent control, which the Democrats say reflects, at least in part, the support he has received from the state's real estate industry. He generally says that he believes there should be protections for the elderly, the disabled and people living on fixed incomes. But Mr. Pataki has left no doubt he wants to see rents governed by a free market system, and he has said he supports vacancy decontrol, under which rent regulations would be eliminated once an apartment became vacant.
Mr. D'Amato, in a telephone interview yesterday, was more expansive on the future of rent laws. "Clearly, working families and middle-income families need rent control protections," he said. "Wealthy people don't."
"I can't see how you can just scrap the whole thing," Mr. D'Amato said. "It's just not going to happen. You know that. I know that. And the Democrats know that."


GRAPHIC: New Census Bureau statistics point a clear portrait of who lives in rent-regulated apartments, contesting some of the assumptions at the base of the fervent debate in Albany.
Chart/Graph: "Who Benefits From Subsidies"
 Most tenants who benefit from rent subsidies are neither very poor nor very wealthy, neither welfare-dependent nor owners of second homes. They are mostly lower middle class or working poor people.
 The debate has centered on those seen as abusing the system by receiving subsidies they do not need. Taking rent-controlled and rent-stabilized apartments together, the numbers show that only 5 percent of those families in rent-regulated apartments report yearly incomes of more than $100,000. At the same time, some 9 percent earn less than $10,000 a year.
 The household income in most rent-regulated apartments is less than $30,000 a year; only a quarter of the households receive any kind of public assistance.
 Furthermore, while the debate centers on Manhattan real estate because that is where the most drastic rent increases would occur if regulations were lifted, most rent-regulated apartments are outside Manhattan.
 Most of the heads of households are not white.
 The demographics of the tenants in the relatively few rent-controlled apartments are quite different from those of renters in stabilized units.
 Rent-controlled apartments, which tend to have the lowest rents in their neighborhods, are in buildings constructed before 1947. They are meant to be occupied by tenants who have been in them since 1971 or earlier. Indeed, one-third are elderly, older than 75, and nearly two-thirds are older than 65. Most are white; most are living alone; few have children in their apartments. As a group, they are poorer than the rent-stabilized tenants.
 Also in contrast, more rent-stabilized apartments have children and younger families. Most heads of households are not white.
 Graph shows breakdowns of controlled, stabilized, and unregulated apartments with regard to race and ethnicity, age, household income, years lived in current residence, tenants living alone, and tenants with children. Also shown for each are the number of households in various income brackets. (Source: Housing and Household Economic Statistics Division, Census Bureau) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); RENT CONTROL (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); MUSIC (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



609 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Reverses Early Selloff, Ignoring Group of 7 Warning

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar overcame a brief selloff to end mostly higher yesterday after currency traders concluded that there was little teeth in a warning on Sunday from the seven leading industrial nations that they would act to curb the dollar's rise.
The warning came in a communique after finance ministers and central bankers from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States met in Washington. The officials had been expected to act aggressively to stop the dollar, which had risen more than 12 percent against the mark and nearly 10 percent against the yen this year. 
 But their statement gave no hint of intervention threats or approximate target levels for exchange rates. The statement said only that the Group of Seven nations had "agreed to monitor developments and to cooperate as appropriate in exchange markets."
"The market was ready for a stronger statement," said Sean Bovenizer, head of foreign-exchange trading at the New York branch of Norddeutsche Landesbank. "But it was short in length and lacking in dynamics, so the dollar maintained its firmness."
The dollar briefly hit a 38-month high of 1.7386 marks in early Asian dealings before settling in New York at 1.7330 marks, up from 1.7270 marks Friday. The dollar ended at 126.98 yen, up from 126.25 yen. The pound rose to $1.6247 from $1.6231.
The demand for dollars was dampened briefly late in European trading when Hans Tietmeyer, president of the Bundesbank, said the United States wanted the dollar to be strong but not stronger. The dollar quickly fell from 1.7330 marks to 1.7255 marks before climbing back up.
Traders concluded that Mr. Tietmeyer's remarks merely reiterated his statement on Sunday that the dollar had "gone a little bit further" since the last Group of Seven meeting in February, when the group proclaimed that the dollar's correction from postwar lows reached two years ago was complete.
"Certainly there are some concerns among the G-7, but they haven't reiterated in a tone that the market perceived as a warning," said Dennis Pettit, manager of foreign-exchange trading at the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN BANK OF JAPAN (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); TRENDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



610 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices for Wheat Slip Again As Rain Aids European Crop

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Wheat prices fell yesterday for the third time in four trading sessions as rains replenished dry wheat fields in Europe, easing concern that drought would damage crops there.
On other markets, gold and copper fell. 
 As much as an inch of rain fell in southern England and northern and eastern France during the weekend, and more is expected. In the northern Plains of the United States, by contrast, fields have been flooded but drier conditions are predicted for this week, which should let planting of spring wheat get under way. Winter wheat had been damaged last week by a freeze in some areas.
The rains in Europe helped calm anxiety that drought in Britain and France, where rainfall this year is now just a quarter of normal, would cut wheat output from the European Union, the world's largest producer. Reduced shipments from Europe could increase demand for American wheat, and that prospect had raised wheat prices.
But yesterday, wheat for July delivery fell 11 cents, to $4.2125 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade. On the Kansas City Board of Trade, it dropped 12 cents, to $4.41 a bushel.
Also weighing on prices, the Department of Agriculture said that 9.87 million bushels of wheat were inspected for export last week, down from a revised 16.3 million the week before. Traders said that the decline reflected a slowdown in international demand for American grains after a recent surge in prices.
Gold slumped to a four-year low, in part because members of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations, while signaling concern about the rise of the dollar, did not say specifically that they would act to slow the ascent. The dollar's rally has made gold, for which the dollar is the international currency, more expensive for buyers using other currencies.
June gold fell $2.50 to settle at $341.40 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest close for a most active contract since April 22, 1993. Copper fell after a larger-than-expected decline in American sales of new homes heightened expectations that a slowdown in the housing market will cool demand for copper from builders in coming weeks.
May copper fell 1.10 cents, to $1.116 a pound, on the Comex. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); KANSAS CITY BOARD OF TRADE INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: GRAIN; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; WHEAT; WEATHER; RAIN; DROUGHT AGRICULTURAL PRICES (94%); FUTURES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); DROUGHT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



611 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: King of the Jingle Hunts Royalties;
A Quest for Relief (Plop, Plop! Fizz, Fizz!), Monetarily

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
"At Beneficial -- toot toot -- you're good for more," sang out Steve Karmen in a midtown recording studio. He segued into "When you say BUD-weis-er, you've said it all!," "You can take Salem out of the country. . . .," "Ford, that's incredible!" and wound up with his goldenmost oldie, "I Love New York," now celebrating its 20th anniversary with television spots featuring Mr. Karmen in black tie at the piano. They don't call him King of the Jingle for nothing.
But when it comes to royalties from his creations, Mr. Karmen, along with other jingle writers, has been singing the blues. 
 He charges that the leading performance-rights society, Ascap, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, has been shortchanging them for years to the advantage of "the biggies," as he calls writers of old standards who get a bigger vote at Ascap and whose music is compensated at a rate 33 1/3 times higher than original jingles regardless of play time. So-called featured music is fully credited at 100 percent; jingles at 3 percent of that.
"Jingles are a Rodneyism" (as in Dangerfield), Mr. Karmen, 60, wrote in his 1989 book, "Through the Jingle Jungle." "They don't get no respect." But it's not really about jingles or him, he says. It's about how the music royalty business is run.
"We want the same financial respect as Richard Rodgers," he said, adding that Ascap had no business imposing value judgments but should simply record the duration of plays and distribute receipts accordingly, as is widely done in Europe.
"If his music is on for three minutes and mine is on for three minutes," he said of the composer of "Blue Moon," "My Funny Valentine" and "If I Loved You," "what is the difference?" Moreover, he said, if Ascap was not so dead set against sampling the airwaves for types of music played, it would find that popular songs are fading off the air and should be devalued accordingly.
Those are fighting words at Ascap, founded in New York in 1914 to license the most beloved canon of the American songbook. "Obviously, a background cue on a TV show is not going to be as valuable as a feature performance of a song." said Marilyn Bergman, the society's president and a noted songwriter who created the lyrics for "The Way We Were" and "You Don't Bring Me Flowers," popularized by Barbra Streisand. For its part, Ascap says it is doing what it is supposed to be doing: taking "objective surveys of performances" to collect fees for its 70,000 members as provided under an anti-monopoly settlement with the Justice Department and dividing the money according to a court-sanctioned weighting system. Last year, Ascap led the industry with revenue of $482 million, of which, it said, $406 million was passed on to members. (It was in zealous collection of performance fees that Ascap went after the American Camping Association, enmeshing itself in a public relations fiasco last year over campfire songs with the Girl Scouts.)
"He's saying, 'I don't have enough; I should have more,' " I. Fred Koenigsberg, Ascap's counsel at the Manhattan law firm of White & Case, said of Mr. Karmen. He called the jingle writer "an amazingly talented guy" who had lost at every stage of a 15-year campaign against Ascap's weighted royalties.
But Mr. Karmen, an Ascap member for 25 years, refuses to be silenced, as perhaps befits someone whose commercial hit parade includes ditties for Wrigley's Spearmint Gum, Dial Soap, the Nevele Hotel, Hertz Rent-a-Car and General Tires among many others that once heard become naggingly difficult to get out of the brain.
How music played on radio and television is monitored and paid for are not issues likely to preoccupy the average listener. But they are of overriding concern to the creators and music publishers whose works are protected under Article I of the Constitution, spawning a billion-dollar performance-rights industry that is once again in the spotlight.
The Senate Judiciary Committee is preparing to hold hearings on the hotly contested fairness in music licensing bill, which would allow restaurants, bars and businesses to entertain patrons with radio and television without buying permission from music copyright holders. The measure would also carve out a broader exemption for religious broadcasters, who now pay for blanket performance licenses they say they do not need for music they do not always like.
Uproar over the measure has delayed action on another bill to add 20 years of copyright protection to new and old songs. Songs written before 1978 would have their copyright protection extended to 95 years after composition. Songs written after 1978 would be copyrighted for the life of the composer, plus 70 years.
Perhaps not surprisingly, Mr. Karmen is on the side of the bars and restaurants and against extending the copyrights. With only one royalties pie to divide, he says, the sooner the older works enter the public domain, the sooner more money will flow to those "whose works are actually being broadcast today" instead of providing "an unjustified golden pension to the children and grandchildren of those whose music no longer earns it."
Both sides cast themselves as champions of struggling songwriters who, but for their small royalties, would be driven out of the business, impoverishing American culture.
Ascap and its two competitors, Broadcast Music Inc., known as BMI, and Sesac, formerly the Society of European Stage Authors and Composers, operate as giant ears to monitor the music played and as bill collectors to take in the fees and distribute them to the copyright holders. BMI, a New York nonprofit corporation founded in 1939, reports a client list of 180,000 songwriters and publishers. Sesac, a Nashville for-profit corporation founded in 1930, represents 2,300 music professionals. BMI and Sesac have their own weighting systems. The process is staggeringly complex. In addition to the millions of hours of monitoring, the societies blend a variety of factors to arrive at royalty figures.
One industry economist, Barry M. Massarsky, a consultant in Manhattan, said songwriters and their estates had hired him to decipher just how they are being paid. As a rough example, he said, a song played on a major New York radio station might bring the writer who created the work and the publisher who exploits its value $160 each a play and perhaps 10 times as much on television, a far rarer occurrence.
 
Art of the Spiel: Violins and Drums
The royalties dispute pits Ascap against Mr. Karmen, a Bronx High School of Science graduate and Westchester resident who went from humble beginnings in the "nudie movie scoring business," as he put it, to master the art and craft of jingle writing, which helped him bring up his three daughters after his wife died of cancer.
In his book, he explains how to write and market jingles. "Suppose you are writing for an airline," he says. "The agency wants the music to say 'flying,' to establish a floaty yet secure feeling. Airlines should never sound small. Small implies unsafe, like a toy plane with a rubber band." He suggests "a violin sweep as the plane takes off" and, yes, French horns, with their long floating tones: "Today every airline is out to out-French-horn every other airline."
For cars, he says, hot drum tracks are good. For deluxe models, lush strings or a classical piano. Cola songs need bounce. Perfume? Solo guitar or unaccompanied flute with a lot of echo.
For the Beneficial commercial, Mr. Karmen says, he was handed the slogan "You're good for more." But instead of using the line as given, he says, "I chose to break it up with a mnemonic 'toot toot,' to try to make it sound different."
But it's not just Karmen v. Ascap. There is a so-called Ascap judge, William C. Conner of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in White Plains who, besides regular cases, adjudicates the antitrust consent decree under which Ascap has been operating in one form or other for 56 years. There is his predecessor, Harold R. Tyler, a distribution adviser to the court, and his West Coast counterpart, Seth Hufstedter. A lawyer in the Justice Department Antitrust Division, Mary Beth McGee, monitors the order.
"If Ascap didn't exist, someone would have to invent it in a hurry," said Judge Conner, who is deciding a challenge brought by the National Religious Broadcasters in another attack on blanket license fees.
Musical ability is irrelevant and extraneous to his job, he said in an interview. "I never try to sing in public," he said. "When God was passing out musical talent, he passed me by."
The Federal involvement grew out of prewar complaints that Ascap was monopolizing the licensing of popular music. In a 1941 settlement, the society and the Government agreed to a set of fairness standards. BMI and the Government signed a more limited decree in 1966.
Under the Ascap system, original jingles are compensated at 3 percent the rate of featured music, up from 1 percent in the 1970's. But when an old standard like Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue" is used in a United Airlines commercial, it is paid at 12 percent of the full rate. Theme music and background music have their own weighted rates.
According to figures cited by an Ascap lawyer, while a Cole Porter song played at the televised Academy Award ceremony might bring the Porter estate and the publisher $1,250 each, a jingle by Mr. Karmen would bring him and his publisher $37.50 each. (This does not take into account one-time fees of $5,000 to $10,000 paid to the jingle writer by the advertising agency and the vastly higher sums paid for the use of popular songs.)
"Based on what opinion is this less valuable?" said Joey Levine, another jingle writer ("Sometimes you feel like a you feel like a nut, sometimes you don't"), who joined Mr. Karmen's court challenge with eight others. "Sammy Cahn may get only a few plays. Joey Levine may have 100 more plays. But Sammy will still get paid 100 percent on his plays. It's so lopsided." He and Mr. Karmen, among other jingle writers, say the system is perpetuated by hit songwriters who have up to 100 times the voting power of other members, depending on their performance successes. Ascap denies that they have enough clout to sway a majority.
 
Same Old Song? A Judge Says So
Judge Conner has heard this song before, noting that he dismissed the jingle writers' challenge in his court, as did the Federal Appeals Court for the Second Circuit in August 1994. "I did go into it and found it was not unfair," he said. But Mr. Karmen still hopes to win over the Justice Department and the District Court with incessant pleas for modification of the weighting system.
Although he recently wrote, pro bono, "The Faces of America" for the Greater New York Hospital Association campaign against health-care cuts, for now he is out of the jingle jungle, he says, and hunting for new challenges.
As he sat at the piano the other day in the Howard Schwartz Recording studio in Manhattan noodling a medley of his most recognizable jingles, he said he would never stop fighting his case but that he needed a breather. "I'm writing a musical," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Karmen, composer of jingles, including "I Love New York, " in a studio in midtown Manhattan. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Marilyn Bergman, left (Ed Carreon), president of Ascap, the performance-rights society, and William C. Conner, a District Court judge who rules on royalties. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "NAME THAT TUNE"
Is it the product that seems familar or the melody that lingers on? Here's a sampling of jingles and popular songs used in current advertisements.
 
Jingle Swells:
"When You Say Bud," Steve Karmen for Budweiser Beer.
"The Best Part of Waking Up," Leslie Jan Pearl, for Folger's Coffee.
"Sometimes You Feel Like a Nut," Joey Levine for Almond Joy.
"The Fabric of Our Lives," lyrics by Oglivy & Mather and music by Zack Smith, for Cotton incorporated.
 
From Songs to Sales
"Someone to Watch Over Me," lyrics by Ira Gershwin and music by George Gershwin (1926). Introduced by Gertrude Lawrence in her Broadway debut in "Oh, Kay!" H&R Block
"Like a Rock," lyrics and music by Bob Seger (1986); originally by Bob Seger and the Silver Bullet Band. Chevrolet.
"Natural Woman," by Gerry Goffin, Carole King and Jerry Wexler (1967); originally Carole King and later by Aretha Franklin for Clairol
"Macho Man," Lyrics by Henri Belolo, Victor Willis, Peter Whitehead and music by Jacques Morali (1978); originally performed by the Village People. El Paso Sauce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS, AUTHORS AND PUBLISHERS (ASCAP) AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS AUTHORS & PUBLISHERS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS, AUTHORS AND PUBLISHERS (ASCAP) AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS AUTHORS & PUBLISHERS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ROYALTIES WRITERS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (74%); SONG WRITING (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); LITIGATION (63%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; KARMEN, STEVE MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



612 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
The Blathery Gibberish

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
Diversity is on all lips. So is closure. So is icon. Just try to get through the day without reading or hearing about someone who is an icon, someone who is looking for closure and someone who is championing diversity.
Oh yes, it can be done if you cut the plugs off your radios and television sets and burn all newspapers and magazines as they come through the door. Only the strongest can do that. The child for whose benefit I cut the plug off the TV set in 1949 has not spoken to me since. 
 But we are not talking about the ingratitude of children, we are talking about blather, which is what diversity, closure and icon are. Any day now I expect to read that some icon of diversity has achieved closure, or that some icon of closure has achieved diversity, or that closure has come to the search for iconic diversity.
Why everybody suddenly started saying closure is a mystery, but that's what happened. One day, right out of the blue, everybody just suddenly started saying closure.
Persons whose children, lovers and next of kin died in the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800 and in the Oklahoma City bombing were said by the news reporters to be seeking closure.
You sense the dust of the psychologist's couch in the air here. The death of someone you dearly love is a dreadful, dreadful thing, and not easily endured. Echoing inside the word "closure," however, is the sound of a door being slammed and sealed shut against the person whose loss creates your pain.
The mourner is trivialized by the suggestion that the sooner he gets over the death, the better. "Time to pull yourself together, put this behind you, and get on with the job of expanding the gross domestic product."
This is what I hear when the comfort of closure is discussed. And closure is always made to sound comforting. Emotionally devastated survivors need closure, we are told, until it begins to sound like a patent medicine: "The new miracle Closure, folks. Take two at bedtime and wake up with all sadness gone."
With its promise that the most heartbreaking loss need not haunt you forever afterward, closure is a cheerful word. So is diversity. Diversity is a good-person word. (Not, please notice, a good-guy word.) Good persons seek diversity in order to give every American an equal opportunity.
President Clinton boasts of the diversity of his governing circle, meaning that besides dead white males it includes live white females and Americans of African, Hispanic and Asian descent.
Diversity's purpose is to create a government as diverse as the population. Desirable or not, President Clinton has failed to pull it off and ought to quit boasting that he has.
The problem with Clinton-style diversity is that it lacks diverseness. Sure, his government gives important jobs to women and persons of varied racial background and ethnic cultures.
Just as in the bad old pre-diversity era, however, it remains government by the elite, lacking the experience necessary to do many things government ought to be doing better.
Consider the huge population blocs not represented. Why no high school dropouts in this bunch of college graduates? If you've been to college, you cannot possibly know how unforgiving America can be to millions who never finish high school.
And where is the cabinet secretary who has no health insurance? Somebody there ought to know what it's like to be one of the 41 million Americans who live in terror of becoming sick.
A cabinet member who is on welfare? Sure, if you really want a government that mirrors the population. Welfare customers are a big part of America. So is the prison population, and it's getting bigger daily as states compete to see which can jug the highest percentage of drug users. How about a Secretary for Marijuana Smokers Doing 20 Years For Inhaling?
Diversity, what a fraudulently sweet-smelling word you are.
As for icon, this lovely word with its odor of incense and hint of Byzantine religious mystery is now reduced to a pretentious way for depraved language butchers to speak of computer cartoons and of entertainers and athletes once dismissed as "heroes" or "stars."
After the language is murdered, will closure be far behind?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (76%); MEN (67%); BOMBINGS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (62%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL BILL CLINTON (62%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (62%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



613 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Nonwhites Barely Visible in British Vote

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 28

 BODY:
The returns in Britain's national election will not be in until the polls close on Thursday night, but one set of results is already known -- nonwhite Britons will vote in far fewer numbers than whites and they will end up with less representation in Parliament than their numbers merit.
Britain's various minorities make up less than 3 percent of the electorate, but they account for 5.5 percent of the population. Men in white dhotis and women in pastel saris, curry houses, shops redolent of saffron, turmeric and masalas, restaurants featuring jerk chicken, yams and plantains, professional men and women conducting their businesses in the gentle accents of the subcontinent and youths of all colors in urban neighborhoods favoring Jamaican inflections in their speech are as British today as tweed and tattersall. 
 Trying to get more nonwhites into the voting booths is the goal of a new organization, Operation Black Vote. Simon Woolley, 35, its coordinator, held up a list showing 48 districts in which the number of nonwhite voters vastly exceeds the margin of victory of a sitting member of Parliament.
"It shows the political clout we could have," said Mr. Woolley. Then he brandished another set of numbers, a poll by the MORI survey firm that his group commissioned when it was set up in July. It showed that 86 percent of blacks and Asians aged 18 to 25 and 60 percent of those who are older say they won't vote. Registration rates for ethnic minorities are four times lower than for whites.
His group has held rallies and produced posters, television ads and simplified registration cards to try to cut into those dismaying numbers, but the expectations for improvement are not as high as the cultural obstacles against greater participation.
"There's no tradition here of organizing minority communities," said Mark Bunting, a political researcher at MORI. "And the parties are not very good at supporting minority cultures. We are about 30 years behind the American experience."
Militating against organization on an American scale are the proportionately smaller size of Britain's minority groups, a reluctance to identify issues as "ethnic" ones and residential patterns more mixed than in the United States that don't produce such high concentrations of individual racial or ethnic groups.
Prominent people like sports and entertainment figures don't come forward readily. "They think it won't be good for their careers to be identified as a 'ghetto spokesman' or a 'black role model'," said Decca Aitkenhead, a journalist familiar with organizing efforts.
Minority groups in Britain are defined in two broad categories -- Afro-Caribbean -- which embraces blacks with origins in the West Indies and Africa -- and Asian -- which includes people whose background is Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Sri Lankan. Of Britain's 59 million people, roughly two million are Asian and one million Afro-Caribbean.
The latest MORI poll showed that 83 percent of those nonwhites who say they will vote favor Labor, 13 percent the Conservatives and 3 percent the Liberal Democrats. "There is a tendency for the Labor party to take the black vote for granted," said Diane Abbott, a black Labor member of Parliament.
She is one of six non-white members of the 651-seat Parliament, and the likelihood is that there will be at least nine in the new 659-seat Parliament. There are 43 non-white candidates, but most of them are contesting seats considered safe for the incumbents.
Politicians find that the principal concerns they encounter in minority neighborhoods are the same ones they find elsewhere -- education, unemployment, health care and crime. "Attitudes of Asian voters to politicians and policies are remarkably similar to those of white electors," said Shamit Saggar, professor of political science at the University of London. "Politicians should approach an Asian doorstep as they would any other."
There are subcategories of issues that are of particular interest to minority neighborhoods, like the deaths of people in police custody and the expulsions of black students from schools. Labor and the Liberal Democrats have both pledged to get rid of some harsh new measures added to the strict immigration laws by the Conservatives, and both have said they would propose laws criminalizing racial harassment and racially motivated violence.
"But there's no point in talking about race when people are losing jobs," said Atul Hatwal, a Labor spokesman.
"Race is not the defining issue," said Paul Boateng, a legislator from the Wembley area of London. "I don't want to get into that debate about which is more important, race or class, but let's just say that they are inextricably linked." He pointed out that the same poll that showed how few young blacks planned to vote noted a similar problem among white youths. "It's a generational problem as much as any other thing. We are not responding to the needs of young people."
Mr. Boateng, 45, the British-born son of a Ghanaian father and Scottish mother, will almost certainly become a Government minister if Labor wins the election. Remarkably, no black in Britain's history has ever risen so high in the Parliament.
But his mission one recent rainy morning was getting out the vote, and Mr. Boateng, whose 48 percent-minority district is Britain's most ethnically diverse, was out campaigning in a manner particularly suited for the neighborhood of high-rise housing projects. Undertaking what he called a "blitz." Mr. Boateng, his wife, Janet, and four aides covered 8 of the 15 floors of a project building, fanning out on each landing, knocking on doors, chatting with people who answered and then tearing down the stairs to the next floor.
"The interest of most of these people is finding a job," said Mrs. Boateng.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAMAICA (79%); INDIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAMAICA (79%); INDIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ELECTIONS; VOTER BEHAVIOR; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



614 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Slighting Nature in Chile

 BODY:
When Augusto Pinochet stepped down as President in 1990, Chile's people hoped that democracy would bring an improvement in the country's environment. The dictatorship had listened mainly to its friends in industry, and Chileans hoped that a new government would heed conservationists and public health advocates. What they did not count on was that in Chile, like most developing countries eager to attract foreign investment, the desire for growth outweighed environmental concerns.
As a result, air and water pollution remain serious threats to public health. Chile is also destroying irreplaceable natural resources through logging of old-growth forests and overfishing. 
 Chile has some tough environmental laws but, as in other Latin nations, they are not well enforced -- in part because of the desire for growth. Chile is justifiably proud of a decade of growth at more than 5 percent, much of it from exports from mining, forest products and fishing, which damage the environment unless carefully regulated.
These extractive industries exercise great political influence. Moreover, unlike their American and European counterparts, business leaders in Chile see no particular public relations value in supporting environmental causes. The Chilean industrialists' group has even hinted that it will organize a boycott of "Oro Verde," a primetime soap opera with an environmental theme.
Businesses commission the required environmental impact statements, and the government board that evaluates them often cannot afford to hire experts to do a thorough job. On several occasions when the board has rejected major investment proposals, political commissions have allowed the projects to proceed. President Eduardo Frei has often said he will not let environmental concerns stand in the way of growth.
Chile's environmental groups are small and rely heavily on volunteers. But they have helped raise public awareness of environmental issues to the point where politicians cannot risk ignoring them. And they have mounted successful court challenges. Chile's supreme court just blocked a major logging project by an American company, declaring that Chile's basic environmental law was too vague. New regulations were quickly passed.
The court is surely on the right track. No one has calculated the yearly cost of environmental damage to Chileans' health and resources, but the figure is probably greater than the annual increase in Chile's economy. Other Latin nations have found profit in protecting the environment. That would be a natural step for Chile, whose responsible Government and strong regulatory structure have helped make it an economic model in the third world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE; CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (73%); BOYCOTTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); INWARD INVESTMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



615 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Gain a Bit in Light Trading

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday, despite the stiff test a full schedule of economic data poses for the financial markets this week. The evidence already in hand strongly suggests that the Federal Reserve will further tighten monetary credit eventually.
Given the data compiled thus far, over the last month consensus estimates of economic growth in the first quarter have risen to a range of 4 percent to 5 percent, far stronger than the most optimistic assessments of a sustainable growth rate. 
 Yesterday, though, prices managed to gain on short-covering -- that is, buying securities to replace borrowed securities that had been sold in the hope of a price decline -- after the March data for new-home sales failed to prompt more than a slight pullback in prices in thin volume. The 30-year Treasury bond was up 12/32, to a price of 94 2/32, pushing its yield down to 7.11 percent, from 7.14 percent on Friday.
Other outside factors promoting short-covering in bonds were the dollar's strength from Friday, a buoyant stock market and lower commodity prices following selloffs in metals, wheat and corn.
The Fed also shored up prices yesterday by confirming that it was in the market buying coupons of issues that mature May 15, 1999, through March 31, 2002.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that new-home sales in March fell 2.5 percent, to an annualized rate of 813,000, from a revised February pace of 834,000.
Greg Jones, an economist with Briefing.com, a market analysis firm in Menlo Park, Calif., said that home sales were still extremely strong in March and the first quarter as a whole, with the supply of unsold homes low. That should support future housing starts, he said. The low inventories, he said, have also put upward pressure on home prices.
The data put some pressure on the market as well, though declines were limited as traders awaited today's release of the Employment Cost Index for the first quarter and durable-goods orders for March, the first of the key numbers expected this week.
Analysts believe that a rise in the employment cost index of as much as eight-tenths of 1 percent could cause a bond rally, but that a gain of a full percent would signal inflation, hurting the market.
Other data that will have an impact on the market include two more key reports tomorrow -- the gross domestic product figure for the first quarter, as well as the National Association of Purchasing Management report for April -- and the April employment report on Friday.
Interest rates were higher at the Treasury's regular weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills, with analysts calling the results average. The average rate at auction for a three-month security was 5.22 percent, up one basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point, from the previous week, while the rate for a six-month security was 5.45 percent, up from 5.38 percent the previous week.
Tomorrow, the Treasury will announce the size of its quarterly refunding of older debt, while a number of corporate issuers are preparing to issue $5 billion of debt this week.
Yesterday the General Motors Acceptance Corporation priced $500 million of four-year notes through underwriters led by Lehman Brothers. Rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Service and A- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation, the notes were priced to yield 7.218 percent, or about 40 basis points more than a comparable Treasury security.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.681	97.245	Discounted Rate	5.22%	5.45%	Coupon Yield	5.36%	5.68%	High Price	98.683	97.245	Discounted Rate	5.21%	5.45%	Coupon Yield	5.36%	5.69%	Low Price	98.681	97.240	Discounted Rate	5.22%	5.46%	Coupon Yield	5.36%	5.69%	Accepted at low price	37%	9%	Total applied for	$44,475,900	$42,113,071	Accepted	$4,084,914	$7,034,970	Noncompetitive	$1,401,411	$1,156,701	

Both issues are dated May 1, 1997. The three-month bills mature on July 31, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 30, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since late-December 1996. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); BRIEFING.COM (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); WHEAT MARKETS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); CORN MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



616 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Fell 2.5% In March After Big February

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
Sales of new single-family homes fell 2.5 percent in March after having risen to the highest level in almost 11 years during February, Government figures showed today.
The March decline, which exceeded analysts' expectations, left home sales at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 813,000. That was in contrast to February's sales, which were revised to show an increase of 1.1 percent, to a rate of 834,000 -- the highest since April 1986 -- from the decline of seven-tenths of 1 percent reported originally. 
 In the first quarter, 209,000 houses were sold, up from 191,000 in 1996.
Sales of new homes are an important indicator of consumer demand.
Sales during March fell in the Northeast and the South and rose in the Midwest and the West.
The supply of homes for sale nationwide decreased 3.3 percent in March, to an annual rate of 297,000, the lowest level since April 1994. The inventory of vacant homes rose to a 4.5-month supply, from 4.4 months in February. Still, that was below the level of above six or seven months that suggests real estate markets are saturated, analysts said.
"A weakening in demand shouldn't result in a downward spiral because inventories are lean," said David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders.
Mr. Seiders also said, however, that in the months ahead, "housing will become a bit of a drag on the economy" even though sales and building activity would remain close to last year's level.
In today's report, the Commerce Department said the average price of a new house rose to $171,500 in March from $169,900 in February. That reflected the recent rise in borrowing costs. Mortgage rates have increased by more than half a percentage point since mid-February.
The increase in rates, which prompted economists to predict a housing slowdown, is not causing home builders to worry.
"The universe of potential homeowners is still strong," said Robert Lefenfeld, director of research and development at the Regency Corporation, an Annapolis, Md., company that finances and builds homes in Virginia, Maryland and Washington. The increase in mortgage rates of half a point "isn't going to have a detrimental effect" on housing demand, he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New-Home Sales" tracks new private homes sold during month, at seasonally adjusted annual rate, from October 1995 through March 1997. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (70%); MARYLAND USA (50%); 

CITY: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (70%); MARYLAND USA (50%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (93%); NEW HOME SALES (93%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



617 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Lott Now Opposes Change in Inflation Adjuster

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
The Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, today all but ruled out reducing cost-of-living adjustments for Social Security recipients to help balance the budget. His remarks complicated prospects for a bipartisan deal to eliminate the Federal deficit even as the two sides prepared for a big push to reach agreement this week.
Mr. Lott said President Clinton had waited too long to signal a willingness to take the political heat that changing the cost-of-living formula would generate. As a result, he said, Republicans have become so fearful of being blamed for harming the interests of the elderly and other powerful constituencies that they will not vote for any budget package that provides for revising the formula. 
 "I think it's too late," said Mr. Lott, who had publicly prodded Mr. Clinton for months to support such a change.
On Sunday, Mr. Clinton said he would be willing to consider changing the formula because most economists agree that the Consumer Price Index, on which the adjustments are based, overstates the effects of inflation. Although the White House had been wary of embracing any change publicly, Administration officials had said for months that they thought revising the index could be part of a budget package, saving tens of billions of dollars over the next five years.
Taking a change in the index off the table in the budget negotiations, as Mr. Lott apparently did today, puts increased pressure on the two sides to find other ways of bridging the differences between them. Among the most likely options now is for Republicans to adopt economic assumptions closer to the slightly more optimistic outlook used by the Administration in calculating how big the deficit will be in coming years.
Several Republicans said today that they were increasingly open to using more optimistic numbers, especially since strong economic growth and tax revenue so far this year make it likely that the deficit for 1997 will come in far lower than either the Administration or the Congressional Budget Office projected.
White House officials will consult with Democrats on Capitol Hill on Tuesday to gauge their willingness to go along with elements of a compromise that have taken shape over several months of negotiations.
Leaving Philadelphia today after attending the conference on volunteerism there, Mr. Clinton told reporters that he was returning to Washington "to try to conclude our budget negotiations within the next, I don't know, two days" -- a timetable he quickly amended to "two months, two years."
But in one sign of how far the negotiations have come, some influential House Republicans said they were largely satisfied with the tax-cutting package worked out between the two sides. That compromise would allow a net tax cut of about $100 billion over the next five years, after accounting for some $50 billion in revenue increases from the closing of loopholes and extending existing taxes that would otherwise expire.
Key Senate Republicans including William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, have been pressing for net tax cuts of at least $143 billion, but they rely in part on reductions in the cost-of-living formula for Social Security to pay for them.
One Republican said that even at $100 billion, Republicans could get a reduction in the capital gains and estate taxes and a credit for families with children -- all goals they have considered non-negotiable.
After exchanging offers last week, Republicans and the White House remain about $50 billion short of eliminating the deficit by the target year, 2002. Both sides now say it is increasingly likely that they will find some way of saving at least half of that $50 billion by changing the economic assumptions underlying any deal.
The Administration's slightly more optimistic outlook for the economy and for future deficits has won increased credibility in recent weeks as strong growth and an unexpected surge in tax receipts have led forecasters to revise sharply downward their estimate for this year's deficit. Many economists are now projecting a deficit of around $90 billion, the lowest in 16 years and well below the $125 billion forecast by the Administration and the $113 billion forecast by the Congressional Budget Office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); TAX LAW (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: LOTT, TRENT (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W TRENT LOTT (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



618 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises as Market Weathers Boeing Selloff

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rallied yesterday as the market overcame a selloff in the Boeing Company to snap its three-session losing streak.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 44.15 points to close at 6,783.02. In the broader market, advancing issues outnumbered declines by 1,377 to 1,115 on moderate volume of about 404.5 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Boeing, one of 30 stocks in the Dow, slid 6 5/8, to 95 3/8, after reporting first-quarter profit tripled but warned that production of newer aircraft was likely to keep profit margins under pressure for the near term. McDonnell Douglas, which Boeing is acquiring for stock, fell 3, to 57 1/2.
But Boeing's warnings did not affect the market over all.
"It appears no one chose to draw the inference Boeing's problems will translate into the same kinds of problems for other companies," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. "That suggests there's still a high degree of confidence in this market."
Interest rate-sensitive stocks, which would suffer the most should inflation pick up, put in a strong performance.
The gains, which were concentrated in bank shares, surprised some on Wall Street, coming as they did just ahead of an extremely heavy calendar of economic data.
"To some degree, people are placing their bets," said Peter Green, vice president for technical research at Gruntal & Company, "and those bets are interest rate sensitive."
Among banks, Wells Fargo gained 8 5/8, to 259 1/4, and Citicorp rose 3 7/8, to 107 1/4.
In the bond market, long-term interest rates edged lower, with the benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury issue up 12/32, to a price of 94 2/32, pushing its yield down to 7.11 percent, from 7.14 percent on Friday.
Beyond the upturn in bank stocks, the broad market's performance was cautious and mixed ahead of key economic data.
The first-quarter Employment Cost Index, a closely watched barometer of wage inflation, is due early today. With employment, gross domestic product and manufacturing numbers all due later in the week, analysts said the mood was likely to become even more cautious for the next few days.
"We still have a very full plate in front of us," said Dick Stein, vice president at the U.S. Clearing Corporation. "This is a case where the other team has the ball and the rest of us play defense."
Among individual issues, Giddings & Lewis, a machine-tool maker, jumped 6 47/64, to 20 23/64, after Harnischfeger Industries announced a $19-a-share tender offer for the company late Friday. The jump in Giddings's stock suggested investors believed a higher bid would be forthcoming, but analysts expressed doubt. Harnischfeger fell 3 1/8, to 42 1/4.
Nike Inc. fell 2 3/4, to 53 3/8, after Hambrecht & Quist downgraded the stock, citing a weak American market for the athletic footwear maker.
McDermott International Inc. and its affiliate J. Ray McDermott both failed to open for trading. McDermott said both companies would report larger-than-expected fourth-quarter losses, and that it was examining allegations of wrongdoing by former employees, unrelated to the expected losses.
American Express paced the rise in the Dow average, climbing 3, to 64 1/8, on a report that its credit card business is growing faster than its competitors'. Also in the Dow 30 were two advancing financial stocks, Travelers Group, up 1 3/8, to 50 1/4, and J. P. Morgan, up 2 1/4, to 98 1/8. Analysts said their share prices were low in comparison with expected future earnings.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.74 points, to 1,217.03.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 7.59 points, to 772.96. The American Stock Exchange index was off 1.63, to 541.20.
The Big Board's composite index of all listed common stocks rose 3.31, to 403.69.

ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); JOY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3554 PAPER INDUSTRIES MACHINERY (50%); SIC3532 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (50%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (66%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (66%); U S CLEARING CORP (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); JOY GLOBAL INC (50%); GIDDINGS & LEWIS MACHINE TOOLS LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INFLATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MACHINE TOOLS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



619 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Employee Stock Plan Could Extend Garment Company's Life Into a Second Generation

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
To this day, Tony Ardito still can't really say why dress No. 765 -- his company's biggest seller ever -- was such a success. Maybe it was the stretch-over-the-shoulder neck, or the spaghetti-strap belt. He shrugs when he talks about it.
He made the pattern during the company's second year in business in the mid-1970's, after looking through a European fashion magazine, and about a million teen-age girls liked the design, or the $19 retail price, enough to want one. 
 His partner, Donald Schwartz, who handles the sales part of their company, called T Juniors, also lives in the zone of business instinct. But he has good sources too. He got a hot tip from a source recently. Seems that a certain sleeveless pantsuit design, a kind of "Friends"-inspired Jennifer Aniston thing by the look of it, was selling well in a certain store. No computer analysis could achieve this. Mr. Schwartz ordered 1,000 sleeveless pantsuits on the spot. In the cutthroat young miss market, he said, you leap or you lose.
"A lot of stuff you do is just gut feel," Mr. Schwartz said.
The chemistry of any company, the culture that has evolved to fit a niche, is always the sum of its successes and failures, the personalities of its workers and managers and their instincts. And the greatest turning points and crises, business experts say, are often the ones that touch on that culture and tradition. At T Juniors -- a typically hectic garment company in midtown Manhattan -- that moment is here.
Earlier this year, the owners transferred half the ownership to their 145 workers under an employee stock plan. That is a rare occurrence in the garment industry in New York, where short time horizons and traditional ways linger on despite the advance of the computer and the global economy. T Juniors will never be the same, experts in such ownership plans say.
The changes will likely be incremental, and perhaps even unnoticeable to much of the world, but no less profound for all that. Attitudes, expectations, psychology, all move onto a new track when employees become owners, said Christopher Mackin, president of Ownership Associates, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. "It's the drawing power of the term 'ownership,' in American culture," he said.
Garment industry experts say that while larger garment companies like Bill Blass and the Capital Mercury Shirt Corporation have gone the employee stock ownership route, middle-sized firms like T Juniors, which did about $85 million in sales last year, have mostly held to the old ways. That has meant selling a company or closing it down when the owners retire.
At T Juniors' production office on Seventh Avenue and the showroom on Broadway, most employees said they still don't know what to expect. The one certainty is the company has a fighting chance for long term survival and will never be liquidated without an employee vote.
Anthony Armenio, a 64-year-old production manager who has been at the company for eight years, said that the biggest difference so far is in his sense of time. Employees can now think beyond the work day and the next paycheck. "There's something beyond tomorrow, and that's a good feeling," he said. "I'd like to see this place double, and I'd like to share in it."
The aging out of a generation of entrepreneurs is a national phenomenon. According to survey of family-owned businesses by Arthur Andersen, the consulting company, nearly one third of all family-owned firms will change hands within the next five years as baby boom entrepreneurs march into their 50's.
For New York, where old industries like garment making have long been dominated by family enterprises, demographic trends are compounded by harsh changes in the business. Imported garments surged into the United States beginning in the 1970's, sapping New York's manufacturing base at the same time that many younger people were rejecting the idea of traditional family careers. Employment in the industry fell from a high of 250,000 workers in the early 1970's to 90,000 today.
A major issue here is whether the niche that evolved under the old manufacturing world can continue.
The company's speciality is speed -- spotting trends and getting there first. Using Manhattan sewing contractors, the company can often beat by a few weeks competitors who are importing from overseas.
That was the pattern that Mr. Schwartz grew up in, watching his father sew ladies' dresses for half a century in a small Manhattan shop. But the next generation of company managers will likely have grown up with the new economics of the business, in which New York-based sewing is just another option, alongside Asia or Mexico. With this turning of the generational page, industry experts say, will go a whole set of skills.
Who among T Juniors's employees might rise to lead that next generation remains as unknown as next year's hemlines. The company could become entirely employee-owned in the next century, or the owners could sell their remaining 50 percent stake to outside investors, or to a management group within the company.
Mr. Ardito and Mr. Schwartz, both in their mid-50's, intend to continue on in their current jobs for the time being. They are T Juniors's only corporate officers and they constitute the entire board of directors. When they retire, they said, they would appoint their own successors, probably from among the employees.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Ardito and his partner at T Juniors took an unusual step when they established an employee stock ownership plan. It means that after they retire the company could survive, a rare feat in the garment industry. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: T JUNIORS CAPITAL MERCURY SHIRT CORP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: T JUNIORS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); APPAREL MFG (88%); GARMENT WORKERS (86%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; ARDITO, TONY JENNIFER ANISTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



620 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Democrat's Kind Words for Giuliani Kindle a Council Race in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
The scene took place in an intermediate school in the East New York section of Brooklyn, where Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was holding one of his monthly town hall meetings. Standing before hundreds of neighborhood residents, City Councilwoman Priscilla A. Wooten, who represents most of East New York, took the microphone to offer strong praise of the Mayor in one of the areas where he is least popular.
Ms. Wooten's words in that crowded auditorium struck many as an endorsement of the Mayor. And praise of Mr. Giuliani in her district is uncommon and faint. Four years ago, Mr. Giuliani received just 6 percent of the vote in the 42d Council District, one of his worst showings among the city's 51 Council districts. 
 So, in the weeks since, Ms. Wooten's expression of admiration for the Mayor has become the stuff of controversy, her words fueling what is likely to be one of the most contentious races in this year's Democratic primary for City Council.
In the aftermath of that meeting last month, just outside her district, Ms. Wooten's remarks have been hailed by her supporters as an act of political courage and independence.
But her support of the Mayor has also galvanized her detractors, who suggest that she is woefully out of touch with the concerns of poor constituents in a district where the unemployment rate is high.
In an interview last week, Ms. Wooten said that her favorable words for Mr. Giuliani were not meant as a political endorsement, but rather to convey that the Mayor had been attentive to the needs of the district.
"I respect the Mayor of the City of New York," she said. "He has done things in my community that no other Mayor in the history of this city has done. Before he became Mayor, the streets were dirty and there was no sanitation. The Mayor and I work well together. It's not my style to beat around the bush."
Ms. Wooten said she harbored no second thoughts about defending the Mayor. "If we're going to pull this city together, we have to work together," she said. "If I had to do it again, I would."
As Ms. Wooten proudly identifies herself as an ally of Mayor Giuliani, she is being opposed in the Democratic primary by Charles Barron, a community organizer who points with equal pride to being a protege of the Rev. Al Sharpton, a Democratic candidate for mayor who is considered highly popular in the district, which also includes East Flatbush and Brownsville.
There could not be sharper contrasts between the two candidates. The 61-year-old Ms. Wooten, a 15-year incumbent, is a longtime Democratic Party insider in Brooklyn. She is closely allied with the Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, and is chairwoman of the Council's Education Committee, a position that adds $12,500 to her annual salary of $71,500. She is also chairwoman of the Council's Black and Latino Caucus.
Mr. Barron, on the other hand, is the consummate outsider. A former member of the Black Panther Party, he has a long history of activism, most prominently as the leader of East New York United Front, a community group that organized residents against the development of an incinerator in their neighborhood. Mr. Barron, 46, now runs Dynamics of Leadership, a company in downtown Brooklyn that advises universities, corporations and community groups on developing organizing skills.
Adding to the political drama, Mr. Sharpton has made clear that one of his major goals is the defeat Ms. Wooten. "She must not only be defeated, she must at the polls be devastated," Mr. Sharpton said. "This race will have citywide implications because it will be the showdown between those that sell out and those who stand up."
Both Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Barron have questioned why Ms. Wooten is so lavish in her praise of Mr. Giuliani, considering what they describe as the Mayor's failure to develop programs to ease school overcrowding or reduce unemployment.
"I think she is misreading the political climate," Mr. Barron said. "She is the last one who should be on the Education Committee because she has not been an education advocate. Our schools are at the bottom in terms of test scores. And here is a woman siding with a Mayor who cuts $1.2 billion from the education budget."
And Mr. Barron and many of his supporters have suggested that Ms. Wooten is somehow earning political favors by praising the Mayor. "I can only guess that this is about contracts and patronage for petition-carrying loyalists," Mr. Barron said.
Ms. Wooten denied that she received any special favors for her support of the Mayor.
"Al Sharpton knows he doesn't frighten me," she said. "And I don't know anything about Mr. Barron's record, other than the fact that he demonstrated by walking across the Brooklyn Bridge once."
When asked if she would support Mr. Giuliani in November, she said: "It's too soon to say. You don't talk about those things until the general election."
When asked if she would support one of the Democratic mayoral candidates in the September primary, Ms. Wooten pointed out that she had recently attended a fund-raiser for Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer. "The leadership in the district and in the party in Brooklyn are going for Freddy Ferrer," she said. Asked if she was personally supporting Mr. Ferrer, she replied, "Don't you think I'm part of leadership?"
While it is far too soon to determine who has the upper hand in the primary for her City Council seat, Ms. Wooten's last election is not likely to provide her much comfort. In 1993, she won in a field of three. But her two opponents -- Sandy Bender Jr. and Dianne Gordon -- won 53 percent of the vote between them, leaving the incumbent with 47 percent. And this year's race, with Mr. Sharpton vowing to walk the streets of the district denouncing Ms. Wooten, is certain to enhance Mr. Barron's visibility.
Ms. Wooten said she was not worried about the election. In addition to the support of the Brooklyn Democratic Party and its chairman, Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., she said she had the backing of several pastors and politicians in her district.
"In earlier races I was alone," she said. "But now, I have all my elected officials supporting me. I've had tougher races before, and I'm not panicking now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Councilwoman Priscilla A. Wooten, who praises Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, is opposed by Charles Barron, an ally of the Rev. Al Sharpton. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the area of the 42d Council District: The 42d City Council District has been hit hard by unemployment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; ELECTION ISSUES CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERVIEWS (64%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); WOOTEN, PRISCILLA A (COUNCILWOMAN); BARRON, CHARLES; HICKS, JONATHAN P RUDY GIULIANI (93%); AL SHARPTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



621 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Mayor to End 50-Cent Fare On S.I. Ferry

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that he would eliminate the 50-cent fare on the Staten Island Ferry starting July 4, saying people who live outside Manhattan should not have to pay extra to travel.
The decision to allow ferry users to ride free coincides with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's ending of two-fare zones, under which people transferring from buses to subways and vice versa must pay two fares. The ferry's $3 car fare will remain unchanged. 
 The timing of Mr. Giuliani's move raised eyebrows, as the decision is expected to solidify his standing among voters on Staten Island, where strong support helped propel him to victory in 1993.
But Mr. Giuliani said the change -- along with the move to end two-fare zones -- reflected his feelings that residents of the boroughs outside Manhattan should not be penalized.
"The people of Queens, the Bronx, Brooklyn and Staten Island are all helped by this," Mr. Giuliani said yesterday morning after reading with fourth graders at Public School 60 in Woodhaven, Queens, "and it shows a major turnaround in the way our city used to be governed. It used to be governed by and large most often for the benefit of Manhattan. And I've turned that around."
The Staten Island Ferry carries about 60,000 passengers daily, officials said, and riders are charged only on the Manhattan-bound ride.
The ferry fare covers about $4 million of the $25 million operating costs for the city's ferries.
But Deputy Mayor Randy M. Mastro said the plan, first reported Sunday in The Staten Island Advance, would eliminate about $800,000 in capital expenses for ferry turnstile maintenance and fare collectors. He said the city would have a one-time payment of $1.2 million to upgrade the turnstiles to accommodate the Metrocard.
"From an economic standpoint, what made sense was to have a free ferry and not have the added costs of turnstile maintenance and fare collections," Mr. Mastro said.
But Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, who is running for mayor, suggested the move was politically timed. "I think it's great," Mr. Ferrer said, "but it should come as no surprise that a re-election year for a Mayor is like a visit to Lourdes. Instead of a vision of religious fervor, Giuliani got a vision of a grab bag of goodies for places he needs to get re-elected."
Lisa Daglian, a spokeswoman for Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President who is running for mayor, said Ms. Messinger backed the move because it would encourage use of public transportation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FERRIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STATEN ISLAND FERRY FERRIES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (63%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



622 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Industrials Up 44.15, With Banking Issues Strong
Blue-chip stocks rallied, with the Dow industrials rising 44.15 points, to 6,783.02. The market overcame a selloff in Boeing to snap a three-session losing streak.
Interest-rate-sensitive stocks, such as those of banks, American Express and Travelers Group, which could suffer should inflation rise, were strong, showing that there is confidence in the market's prospects. [Page D12.]
 
Treasury prices rose, with the 30-year bond yield slipping to 7.11 percent from 7.14. [D19.] 

Marvel Plan Angers Bondholders
Marvel Entertainment, which has been the subject of a battle for control in bankruptcy court, proposed a reorganization plan involving a merger with Toy Biz. Bondholders led by Carl C. Icahn would be left high and dry; they denounced the plan. [D2.]
 
Hardee's Chain To Be Acquired
CKE Restaurants, an operator of fast-food restaurants, said that it would buy Hardee's, the financially troubled hamburger chain, from Imasco for about $327 million. [D6.]
 
Talks on TV Station Bid Is Seen
Paxson Communications is in talks to buy WBIS, the New York City TV station owned by Dow Jones and ITT, for about $250 million, a person with knowledge of the talks said. But Paxson denied that it was making a bid. [D8.]
 
New-Home Sales Off 2.5% in March
Sales of new single-family homes fell 2.5 percent in March. They had risen strongly in February. [D5.]
 
Mexican Executive Is Acquitted
Carlos Peralta Quintero, a leading Mexican businessman who is a partner in a cellular phone company with Bell Atlantic, was acquitted of charges of tax fraud. [D5.]
 
MGM to Buy Metromedia Units
Metromedia agreed, as expected, to sell its film and television units to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for $573 million. [D9.]
 
Lobbying on Trade With China
Though the Congressional vote on renewing China's normal trading status is months away, Boeing and other companies that have billions at stake are lobbying furiously. [A8.]
 
Diverging Fortunes in Britain
Britain's economic indicators are flashing green, yet voters are signaling a turn to the left, to the Labor Party and away from the Conservatives. For while the statistics portray a booming economy, they obscure the other Britain of shuttered factories and chronic unemployment. [A1.]
 
Court Keeps Ad Ruling Intact
The Supreme Court refused to hear challenges to two Baltimore ordinances banning billboard advertisements for cigarettes and liquor in residential areas. An appeals court had upheld the ordinances in the face of challenges by Anheuser-Busch and by Penn Advertising of Baltimore, which owns billboards. [A15.]
 
5th Avenue Most Expensive, Again
For the third year in a row, a study showed that Fifth Avenue in Manhattan was the world's most expensive retail strip. [B8.]
 
High-Speed Internet Access
Daimler-Benz engineers, apparently not satisfied with the information highway as metaphor, are developing a Mercedes sedan that provides access to the World Wide Web. While the project is only a technology demonstration, one hopes that if such a car is mass-produced, it will also be equipped with air bags. [D2.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,783.02, up 44.15
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.11%, down 0.03
The Dollar -- 126.98 yen, up 0.73
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Durable-Goods Orders
 March figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (82%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); BOEING CO (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); CKE RESTAURANTS INC (56%); ION MEDIA NETWORKS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); FAST FOOD (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ORDINANCES (87%); LOBBYING (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); ACQUITTAL (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TAX LAW (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (67%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); TAX FRAUD (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



623 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2660 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THATCHERISM -- A special report.;
Britain '97: Rich, Poor and a Little in Between

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 28

 BODY:
On the eve of Britain's most important election in years, the nation's economic indicators are flashing green.
After years of slashing payrolls, privatizations and big cuts in welfare under Margaret Thatcher's revolution, the economy has been growing steadily since 1993. Last month, the Government reported that unemployment was a slim 6.1 percent compared with double-digits in France, Germany and Italy and half the level in Britain a decade ago. Last year, growth here beat virtually every nation in Europe with a solid 2.6 percent gain, not far behind the United States. 
 Foreign banks and corporations have invaded the country, bringing an added boost. Attracted by low corporate taxes and a pool of skilled but relatively low-cost labor, hundreds of banks and legions of companies, including Compaq, Northern Telcom and Japanese auto makers, have landed here.
All that suggests an era of good feeling that should give the ruling Conservative Party an easy time. But, in fact, the party is desperately behind in the polls. Most people here attribute it to the Conservatives' nearly 18 years in power and a seemingly endless series of scandals. Moreover, in a contest focused more on personality than on policy, Prime Minister John Major's bland, uninspired leadership makes Tony Blair and the "New" Labor Party seem almost visionary despite Mr. Blair's vague "we can do better" generalities. Oddly that alone may be enough to tip the vote his way, poll takers say.
For while the national averages portray a booming economy best seen in London, they obscure two other worlds within Britain where the pace of change has varied widely. There is the world of shuttered factories, chronic unemployment and unsolved welfare problems. And there is the world of slow but steady adjustments to new jobs that pay less.
Almost everywhere, however, there is the notion that the Conservatives have callously shrugged off the anxieties of many Britons about the future of their jobs and questions about whether they can expect much from the Government should they lose their work. And no matter what the official numbers say, several leading economists contend -- and voters seem to believe -- that unemployment may be twice as high as the Conservatives say because of some narrower definitions of true unemployment.
Since the mid-80's, there has been a great increase in the number of families with no one working, said Paul Gregg, a senior research fellow at the London School of Economics. "We've had reasonable economic success, but large segments of society have systematically lost out," he said. Indeed, since Lady Thatcher took power in May 1979, income for the poor has been flat or fallen, while income for the rich has soared 62 percent. The income gap has never been wider.
At one end of the spectrum is glittering London, where the financial world is prosperous. Its biggest companies are reinvigorated global contenders. Tourism is up sharply, and fashionable, pricey hotels and restaurants are packed with business executives and vacationers.
But far from that whirl, are the other sides of the economy, where Britons are struggling to cope with the difficult realities that Thatcherism has wrought. Some industrial cities north of London, like Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool, have simply been left behind. Unemployment is high, and hopes for improvement are scarce. Similarly, Scotland, which lost its shipbuilding industry, and Wales, which lost coal mining and steelmaking in favor of lower-cost competitors in Asia and Eastern Europe, have lagged behind Britain as a whole.
Finally, there is the Britain that is adjusting to the rigors of resurgent capitalism. Towns like Bristol, Reading and Swindon have benefited from corporate money that has poured in, and people do not seem to fret much that the new jobs do not pay as well as the factory work their parents knew.
Now, these three Britains must pass judgment on the state of the nation in general elections on Thursday. And despite differences in their economic philosophies, none of the three, not even the Socialist firebrands in Liverpool, want to return to the what Lady Thatcher has called the "dreadful conditions" of the 1970's.
What voters seem to want is a Government that has a modicum of commitment to the have-nots whom the Tories largely ignored. In one of the few concrete differences between Mr. Blair and Mr. Major, the Labor Party leader favors reinstating a minimum wage and adoption by Britain of a series of modest worker and job protection measures, the Social Chapter of the European Union's treaty on greater unification.
In previous elections, most voters rejected Labor for fear of jeopardizing the economic gains. Now, the risk is gone; Mr. Blair says he believes in all the Conservative free-market principles and is promising something more: a kinder, gentler approach to the down-and-out.
Here is a look at the three Britains -- one thriving, one struggling and one adjusting.
 
London
Where Big Money Is Nestled
If the corporate captains are making big money in London -- a Salomon Brothers manager recently collected $31 million in bonuses -- they are also attracting their associates who are not hesitant to spend it.
The Dorchester, for example, which prices a regular double room at $500 a night, scored a stunning 91 percent occupancy rate last year. Gambling casinos for the super- rich, like the venerable Crockfords, are less populated by Arabs and increasingly busy with high-rollers from Asia and America, for whom risking $250,000 before sitting down to dinner at $160 a head is mere sport.
To Christopher Reeves, chairman of Merrill Lynch for Europe and the Middle East, the world he inhabits in the City of London seems pleasantly prosperous. "England is doing all right," he said leaning back in his armchair watching the sunset from his glass-and-steel office tower. "The banks are here, the language of international finance is here. The airplanes and airports are here. Very painfully, one must say, we have returned to a measure of self-reliance with people looking out for themselves."
London has always been a financial center, but in the late 1970's, its European dominance was challenged by cities like Frankfurt and Zurich. In the Thatcher years, though, it came roaring back, starting with the Prime Minister's abolition of capital controls in 1979 and then her deregulation of financial markets in 1986.
That, combined with Britain's proximity to the Continent, its language and its union-busting capitalism, which allows employers to spend 40 percent less on wages and benefits than they must elsewhere in Europe, touched off an explosion in distribution centers, light industry, foreign acquisitions and investment. To serve it, corporate financial services, including investment banks and currency traders, have mushroomed.
In the 80's, London became the world's largest center of currency exchange, with 30 percent of the global turnover. Financial services account for 20 percent of Britain's gross domestic product, up from 13 percent in 1984.
"As a financial center, London is a world-scale operation," said Bruce Kasman, head of economic research at J. P. Morgan.
Dudley Fishburn, 51, a Conservative member of Parliament, stands in the ornate hall of the House of Commons, beaming as he describes the magnitude of Britain's metamorphosis from near penury into a thriving service economy. "In my generation, we lost the Empire," said Mr. Fishburn, a former executive editor of The Economist magazine. "After the war, we played No. 2 to the Americans. In Europe, we were the first country to hit rock bottom. Ten years ago, we had race riots. The collapse of this country was dramatic.
"Then, in the last five years somehow, lo and behold, we stumbled into a role as a central medium of transactions." Capitalizing on the growing role of Asia and the fact that Britain's business day overlaps those of New York, Shanghai and Tokyo, London has strengthened its claim as a global financial center. "We've got these eight hours of light, a new empire of time that places us in the center," Mr. Fishburn said.
It is not just foreign banks that have taken notice. Big European, North American and Asian corporations are investing heavily in Britain, too. "Management feels it could manage again," said Nick Butcher, managing director for DHL, the courier company. "Forty percent of the investment coming into Europe has come here, and much of it has come for export industries."
Besides the financial sector, pharmaceuticals have become a leading export industry. Last year, for the first time, overseas sales of Rover cars and Land Rover sport utility vehicles, a brand now owned by BMW of Germany, grew to 50 percent. Pop music represents a $4 billion industry employing 600,000 full- and part-time workers. The number of tourists, bigger than ever, is up 80 percent from 1985.

Liverpool
Where Losers Are Languishing
In Liverpool, Britain's third-largest city and once a shipping center with a teeming port, unemployment is estimated at about 20 percent, and the world of the Crockfords club and the City is a distant mirage.
Andy Potter, 27, has not held a job since he quit high school at 16. He is "on the dole," collecting $75.20 a week in unemployment pay and another $59 in a housing allowance. He is not officially counted as unemployed, he says, because, he routinely enrolls in job training.
"I have been in numerous Government training jobs, but I can't say I learned any profession," he said at the Trade Union Congress headquarters. "It's just a matter of showing up."
Mr. Potter's mother is a nurse who found work in London 175 miles away. That is what many unemployed Americans might do, but pulling up stakes is considered a drastic move in this culture. Mr. Potter said he has his friends in Liverpool, and, while he does not say so, people like him can find odd jobs here and there.
One of his mentors, Kevin Coyne, a hawkish union official, gives his spin on the Thatcher revolution. He does not deny that the overall economy has improved -- but now, he says, it is time for a little justice.
"This Government has changed the social security system 39 times since it came to power -- to take away workers' rights," Mr. Coyne said. "In 1979, you got 80 percent of the pay if you went on the dole. Your eyes, your teeth were all part of the National Health System," he said. Before the Thatcher years, Mr. Potter would have gotten 30 to 40 percent more in benefits.
While Labor has shied from making grandiose promises, and in fact has strenuously avoided giving the impression that unions still hold sway within the party, union leaders like Mr. Coyne believe the party will at least listen to union concerns.
Bobby Morton, 53, a longshoreman who worked the docks for 30 years until he was laid off, is more militant. A shop steward, he holds court in an office festooned with old Socialist posters. For the better part of two years, he has been battling, possibly futilely, to return 429 dockers to work.
They were dismissed in September 1995 in Ronald Reagan-versus-air-controllers fashion after they threatened to strike. The company that runs the port promptly replaced them with 200 nonunion workers at half the wages.
"After 18 years of Thatcher and Conservative Government, the trade unions in this country have been destroyed," Mr. Morton said, his fists tight. Indeed, union membership has declined to 7 million from 11 million when the Thatcher Government took over.
Once Liverpool boasted factories that refined sugar and turned out Dunlop tires, Lockheed aircraft parts, Metal Box cookie tins and Standard Triumph sports cars. Most of them left Britain. "They all moved out under the pressure of globalization," said Frank Duckers, who manages St. Mary's Area Renovation Trust, a community development organization in the Speke section of Liverpool. What he and other community leaders want is for a new Government to better address job training and job creation.
So far, that has been the concern of a private-public partnership in the greater Liverpool area, the Merseyside Development Corporation, created with private and European Union financing after riots by unemployed people in 1981.
Christopher Gibaud is chief executive of the group, which has its offices in a grand old building downtown. It was the home to Cunard Lines, the big steamship company, when Liverpool's docks were in their glory.
The goal of the group is to pump $3.2 billion into Merseyside and create 40,000 jobs by 2000. So far, though, the gains have been modest. Mr. Gibaud said about 1,100 jobs were created last year, mostly in telemarketing, and he predicted that an additional 1,100 jobs would materialize the next two years.
"Everybody is downsizing," Mr. Gibaud said. "What we've got to do is stabilize it. In this economy, which is strong on service but weak on manufacturing, development is about accepting the notion of lower-paying jobs."

Swindon
Where Services Hold Reign
On March 13, Swindon, a town of 177,000 about an hour train ride from London, got another batch of "lower paying jobs."
Residents jammed an old factory grounds to celebrate as balloons and a score of flapping white pigeons floated overhead. Jazz and bagpipe bands paraded as the Mayor, business leaders and the United States Ambassador, William Crowe, stood beaming at the crowd.
The occasion was the reopening of the Great Western Railways site, where Britain's fastest steam-driven locomotives were once built. In brief remarks, the Ambassador congratulated Swindon for "turning land into gold." At that, the Great Western Railways site was rebaptized the Great Western Designer Outlet Village -- a discount shopping center.
In the mall, jointly owned by the British Airport Authority and the American property-development company, McArthur Glenn, the old railway sheds, foundry, boiler shop and the grand Victorian buildings that housed them are now homes to retailers ranging from Aquascutum and Nike.
Inside, where once as many as 30,000 highly paid union members assembled one of the glories of industrial England, 1,000 mostly young, many part-time, all nonunion employees work the registers and stack clothing for a few pounds an hour.
Still, the site had been idle for 10 years until the new owners pumped $56 million into it. "There are 300 centers like that in the United States," said Joe Kaempfer, chief executive of McArthur Glenn. "In time, there maybe 15 or 20 in this country."
Swindon is a shining example of the "new Britain" free-market economists love to showcase. Its politics are those of the Labor Party, and it has attracted foreign and domestic companies like British insurers and Intel. And while some jobs pay modest wages, nearly everybody has one. The unemployment rate has plummeted to 3.5 percent from 12 percent in 1993, said Sue Bates, the Labor head of the Borough Council.
To those in the City of London, Miss Bates's views are only common sense. "What's wrong with foreign investments?" asked David A. Freud, managing director at SBC Warburg. "You get people paid. You export, which strengthens your pound. Your train a new base of labor. You get secondary suppliers going. And you produce a rebirth of domestic enterprises."
But to Ian Manning, an official of the Trade Union Council in Liverpool, the embrace of Conservative economic doctrine is a slap in the face of the British worker. The restructuring of the nation's industry may well have increased competition, lowered inflation and stabilized the pound, he said, but at a price. "By making the firing of people almost a symbol of virility and reform, by taking away their benefits and abandoning them to the mercy of free-market forces," Mr. Manning said, "you create an atmosphere where decency, stability and hope do not appear on that balance sheet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As Prime Minister John Major of Britain campaigns for re-election, the country seems to be ending years of economic stagnation. (Reuters) (pg. A1); At Broadgate Circus, left, the Union Bank of Switzerland's offices are illustrative of the high-powered growth centered in London's financial district. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times); But on the short side of the Thatcher revolution are people like Andy Potter of Liverpool, who has been out of a job since leaving school more than a decade ago. (Roger Scruton for The New York Times) (pg. D4)
 
Graphs: "A Long Way From 1979"
In the run-up to the election on Thursday, Britain is enjoying a stable, healthy economy that bears little resemblance to the economy of 1979, when Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives first gained power.
 
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Britain grew more slowly in the good years of the mid-1970's and slumped much further in the subsequent recession than either its European Community partners or the United States. But in the 1990's, Britain's growth has kept pace with both Western Europe and America. Graph tracks percentage change in gross domestic product for Britain, the European Community as a whole, and the United State, from the same quarter a year earlier, from 1975 through 1996.
 
INFLATION
Loose monetary policy and repeated currency crises in the 1960's and 1970's led to frequent bouts of high inflation, including a sharp spike in 1979. Today, though, inflation is a tame in Britain as in other European Community nations or the United States. Graph tracks percentage change in consumer prices for Britain, the European Community as a whole, and the United States, from the same quarter a year ealier, from 1975 through 1996.
 
UNEMPLOYMENT
Britain in the 1970's suffered with inflation and tepid growth, but unemployment was low. Conservative policies drove joblessness sharply higher in the 1980's, but in recent years, Britain has had greater success than other big European countries in cutting its jobless rate. Graph tracks unemployment rate, using the O.E.C.D. standardized definition, for Britain, the European Community as a whole, and the United States, from 1975 through 1996.
 
(Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Financial Markets; O.E.C.D. Historical Statistics) (pg. D4)
 
Map of England: London, Swindon and Liverpool typify the three sides of the British economy. (pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (96%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (96%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; ; LIVERPOOL (ENG); SWINDON (ENG); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES ; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); FAMILY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (53%); 

PERSON: MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); BLAIR, TONY ; IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M TONY BLAIR (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



624 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: TROOP CUTS LIKELY TO BE MAIN RESULT OF MAJOR REVIEW

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28

 BODY:
The Pentagon's most sweeping strategic review since the end of the cold war will almost certainly result in a cut in American troop strength, especially in the Army, and a reduction in the Air Force and Navy budgets for high-technology jet fighters, Pentagon and Congressional officials said today.
Officials involved in preparing the Quadrennial Defense Review said the troop cuts could number in the tens of thousands and would help pay for a new generation of weapons. 
 Defense Secretary William S. Cohen hinted at the conclusions of the review, which is expected to be made public next month, when he said in a speech today at the University of Georgia that "preparing for this uncertain future requires a robust modernization program."
"We don't want to engage in a fair fight, a contemporary war of attrition," he continued. "We want to dominate across the full spectrum of conflict, so that if we ever do have to fight, we will win on our terms."
The process that begins with the release of the Defense Review could alter American military strategy, including revisions in the doctrine that requires the armed forces to be ready to fight two large regional wars about the same time, with both on the scale of the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
Some Pentagon officials argue that the strategy can be revised, because of the relative weakness of most potential enemies. But even if the changes are more incremental -- and that seems quite likely -- a result will probably be the redistribution of tens of billions of dollars and the elimination of thousands of jobs.
"Everything is on the table," said Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "For this process to be credible, you have to be able to show that you've considered all the options."
Pentagon officials say the review is almost certain to result in another round of cuts in the roster of active-duty troops -- which stands at one and a half million, down by more than 30 percent in the last decade.
Pentagon officials say the Army may be asked to reduce its roster of 495,000 active-duty troops by as many as 50,000, a cut that Army commanders describe as disastrous.
Although the Army is expected to make the largest cuts, the other services will quite likely be asked to trim their shopping lists for new fighter jets.
The cuts in troop strength would help pay for the new fighters that remain in the budget, as well as a new generation of battlefield equipment like computerized artillery systems. The last major weapons-shopping spree was in the Reagan Administration, and many of those arms are considered obsolete.
The defense review, which Congress ordered, will be an early test of the leadership of Mr. Cohen, who has to find a way to prepare the armed forces for the 21st century while holding the budget to its current level, $250 billion a year, plus inflation.
There have been other strategic reviews in recent years, most notably the Bottom-Up Review by the Pentagon in 1993, the first major reappraisal of the armed forces' mission after the Soviet Union collapsed. But that came so soon after the end of the cold war that members of Congress thought that a more comprehensive analysis was needed.
After the Defense Department presents the findings next month, an independent expert panel will present a critique. Then Congress, which has the final say on Pentagon spending, reviews both reports as it ponders the military budget.
Congressional leaders said they intended the review to force the Pentagon to grapple with the issues facing the military in the aftermath of the cold war.
Will high-technology weapons eliminate the need for large numbers of ground troops? Could China rise as a serious military adversary? Should resources be shifted from combat training to the training needed for peacekeeping operations?
General Shalikashvili said in an interview that the goal of the review was to determine "as far out as we could, 2010 and beyond, what the environment would be out there, what America's interest would be and what the challenges to America's interests would be."
The review was supposed to focus on military strategy, with the budget a secondary concern. But in an era in which the calls for a balanced Federal budget are repeated like a mantra, Pentagon officials assume that there will be no more money for the military.
General Shalikashvili said that although protecting national security would be the paramount concern of Pentagon planners, it would be irresponsible to forget the budget.
New weapons are a priority in the Pentagon after years of spending cuts. The budget for the procurement of weapons and other items of large equipment has dropped by more than half in real terms since the end of the cold war.
It is too soon for contractors to celebrate, however, especially the manufacturers of a new generation of tactical aircraft, the largest single item in the procurement budget.
The Air Force can expect cuts in its $70 billion budget for a new generation F-22 jet fighters, and the Navy can be expected to face reductions in the $83 billion budget for F/A-18E/F attack jets.
"I think the systems that are most at risk are 'tac air,' " said Andrew Krepinevich, executive director of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a private research group. "They are the big-ticket items that capture a lot of attention."
The Air Force and the Navy, clearly relieved that they will not face cuts of the magnitude faced by the Army, seem ready to deal with some reductions.
"We would be disappointed" with fewer F-22's, said Maj. Gen. Charles D. Link, the chief negotiator for the Air Force in the Defense Review. "But I'm not going to tell you that we just couldn't stand for that. It's going to be a question of affordability."
Each of the four armed services is struggling to demonstrate why it should not be the victim of the budget cutters. Maj. Gen. John E. Rhodes, a veteran of the Vietnam and gulf wars, found comparisons with combat.
"What do you do before battle?" asked General Rhodes, who leads the 17-member team that represents the Marine Corps in the review. "Preparation, preparation, preparation. Training, training, training."
In this battle, his adversaries are just down the hall, the uniformed commanders of the Army, the Air Force and the Navy. "Sooner or later there's going to be some knife cutting, and there will be some winners and losers," he said.
Adm. Harold W. Gehman Jr., vice chief of naval operations, said the negotiations were frank. "Each of the services," Admiral Gehman said, "feels deeply and honestly that its contribution to the national security and to world peace is an important one, and they are willing to defend their point of view vigorously."
The budget-cutting tone has angered several members of Congress, mostly Republicans, who say they believe that an honest strategic review would result in a dramatic increase in spending. The military budget has been cut by about a third in real terms over the last decade.
Representative Floyd D. Spence, the Florida Republican who is chairman of the House National Security Committee, said he feared that the defense review had turned into a "budget-driven assessment of how much strategy we can afford rather than what our strategy should be."
This month, the committee issued a report warning that the armed forces had already been cut too far and that further cuts would result in a "hollow military."
Mr. Spence has allies in the Army who believe that the Army is being singled out for stiff cuts.
"I'm very concerned about what this process will lead to," said Lieut. Gen. Jay Garner, assistant vice chief of staff for the Army. "I'm very concerned that if not brought under control that the Army will be the overwhelming billpayer."
Even at current levels, he said, the Army strains to meet demands in missions as difficult and dangerous as those in Bosnia, Haiti and South Korea. "We wake up at 2 o'clock every morning, sweating, asking how are we going to meet the demands on our force," he said.
Some cuts could be feasible if the Pentagon revised its two-war strategy. That strategy calls for the United States to be prepared to beat two large regional opponents in different parts of the world at nearly the same time.
But many independent military analysts said they thought that the threat of two simultaneous large wars had dissipated. "The Iraqi and North Korean threats are weaker now than they were four years ago, and we have more advanced munitions," said Michael O'Hanlon, an analyst at the Brookings Institution.
He suggested that the strategy might be revised to allow the United States to be ready to fight and win a major war on one side of the globe, while containing a second enemy on the other, largely through air power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ARMIES; NAVIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; AIR FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); NAVIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); AIRLINES (72%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC) WILLIAM S COHEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



625 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Region Lags in Gain In Personal Income

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
New York, New Jersey and Connecticut lagged the rest of the nation last year in the rate of growth in personal income per person, the United States Commerce Department said yesterday. But the three states still managed to retain their rankings among the top four wealthiest states.
Nationally, per capita personal income -- defined as total personal income divided by population -- rose by 4.5 percent to $24,231, the report said. Locally, New Jersey was the weakest performer, up only 4.1 percent for the year, though that was enough to keep its position as the second-richest state in the nation in per capita income, at $31,053. Connecticut, ranked No. 1 in the nation at $33,189 per capita, and New York, ranked No. 4 with $28,782 per capita, both had increases of 4.3 percent. Massachusetts rounded out the top four, at $29,439 per capita and a growth rate of 5.0 percent. 
 The Commerce Department said that the Middle Atlantic region, which includes New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and the District of Columbia, was the single slowest growth region in the nation in per capita personal income, up 4.2 percent for the year. The fastest growth occurred in the plains states, where farm incomes rose sharply, led by North Dakota, where personal income rose by 11.2 percent, to $20,710 per capita. KIRK JOHNSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INCOME; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (93%); RANKINGS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (78%); CITIES (74%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



626 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 29, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: Following The Buffett Formula;
Geico Chief May Be Heir to an Legend

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
More than almost any other big company, Berkshire Hathaway is the product of one man's enterprise: the storied investing of Warren E. Buffett. And while Mr. Buffett is a healthy 66-year-old with no plans to retire, Berkshire investors -- known, like their hero, for focusing on the long term -- have hungered for a glimpse of what will happen after Mr. Buffett is gone.
A year ago, Berkshire offered a hint. In his homey annual report, Mr. Buffett introduced shareholders to Louis A. Simpson, who since 1979 has been the head of investments for Geico, the auto insurance company based in Washington, D.C., that Berkshire owns. In Mr. Simpson, he wrote, Berkshire "would have an extraordinary professional immediately available to handle its investments" if he and the vice chairman, Charles T. Munger, who is 73, were out of the picture. 
 Yet as Berkshire investors prepare to gather in Omaha next week for the company's annual meeting, the question remains: Louis Who?
The answer is that the man who apparently will take over investing for one of history's remarkable investment vehicles is as private and low key as Mr. Buffett is iconic. But more important for Berkshire shareholders, Mr. Simpson is just as iconoclastic.
Shunning the conventions of Wall Street followed by market timers, technicians and momentum investors, Mr. Simpson's investing for Geico parallels Mr. Buffett's for Berkshire. A value investor to the core, like Mr. Buffett he purchases large stakes in just a few companies with steady growth prospects and market-dominating tendencies. Berkshire has stakes in Coca-Cola and Gillette; Geico has investments in Nike and Mattel.
Like Mr. Buffett in his modest suite in Omaha, Mr. Simpson, 60, pores over annual reports, scrutinizing fundamentals in a small office on the outskirts of San Diego without the computer links that keep most of his contemporaries in touch with the daily gyrations of the market.
And also like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Simpson has garnered returns that trounce market averages and most money managers' performance. Over the last 18 years, while the compounded annual return on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 17.3 percent, Geico's stock investments gained 23.2 percent. Berkshire's return over the same period? A slightly better 25.6 percent.
"I think he's beaten the S.& P. portfolio by 500 or 600 basis points since he began, and boy that's awesome," said Michael Frinquelli, a former analyst who covered Geico for Salomon Brothers and Merrill Lynch. "He's been good in bull and bear markets."
Mr. Simpson, who carefully guards both his personal life and his investment activities, declined to be interviewed for this article, as did Mr. Buffett. But the irascible Mr. Munger explained the insurance executive's appeal. "I would argue that good stock-picking records are held by people who are a little cranky and are willing to bet against the herd," he said. "Lou just has that mind-set, and that's what impressed us."
Early on in his investing career, Mr. Simpson -- who grew up in Chicago -- saw what can happen when the herd stampedes.
In 1969, at the height of the "go go" years for performance mutual funds, he took a job in Los Angeles with Shareholders Management, a hot fund company. Under the management of a "fund wizard" named Fred Carr, Shareholders' Enterprise Fund had soared 159 percent over the previous two years, and the company's assets had ballooned more than fiftyfold, to $1.7 billion.
But Mr. Carr was a market timer, diving in and out of shares in fast-growing, small companies. And when the stock market turned bearish, the Enterprise Fund plummeted, causing large-scale redemptions. One month after Mr. Simpson's arrival, Mr. Carr resigned. And within five months, Mr. Simpson, too, left the "gunslingers" behind -- with an entirely changed perspective on investing.
"It was a traumatic experience for him," said Richard Peterson, who worked with Mr. Simpson at Stein Roe & Farnham, the Chicago investment firm he had joined in 1962 after dropping out of doctoral studies in economics at Princeton University.
"The fires were burning within him in those early years," Mr. Peterson recalled. "There was a powerful competitive urge to make a lot of money and gain a lot of recognition in the investment world. But in having tough times, he learned a lot about business risk."
This was the point, friends say, that Mr. Simpson began to convert to value investing.
Although Mr. Simpson thrived in his next job, as the chief executive officer at Western Asset Management in Los Angeles, managing money for others left few opportunities to test out his own ideas. That is, until the call came in 1979 from Geico.
The insurer was searching for a new chief investment officer, and its chairman, John J. Byrne Jr., had whittled the list of candidates down to four.
The finalists would travel to Omaha to meet Mr. Buffett, who was renewing a longstanding interest in Geico. It was the first stock he had purchased, back in 1952, after learning that his mentor, Benjamin Graham, the Columbia University professor who laid out the tenets of value investing, held Geico shares. Mr. Buffett had sold his shares, only to reinvest in the 1970's, hoping to help lift Geico out of a disastrous spell in which weak management and bad investment choices dropped the company, at its low point, to a $126 million loss in 1976.
"I sent three of the four to meet Warren," Mr. Byrne recalled. "And after a four-hour interview with Lou, he called me and said: 'Stop the search. That's the fella.' "
Most insurance companies hold a broad portfolio of stocks and bonds, counting on diversification to minimize risk, and Geico was no exception. Indeed, because a great deal of Geico's money was tied up in Government bonds during that period of high inflation, the investment portfolio had sizable losses.
Mr. Simpson drastically changed course. He slashed the company's bond holdings and rebuilt the stock portfolio, buying lots of utility, energy and industrial stocks and increasing Geico's stake in food packaging and banking companies. His first year return of 23.7 percent was well below the market average, but the next two years he beat the market handsomely, racking up a 45 percent return in 1983, far above the market's 21 percent gain. By then, 32 percent of Geico's portfolio was in stocks, up from 12 percent when Mr. Simpson took over. In 1991, his best year, Geico's stock investments returned 57 percent.
"We gave him a broad, unfettered pasture to work in, and we allowed him to put an unusual percent of the company's assets into equities," Mr. Byrne said. "And Lou just knocked the cover off the ball for us."
Students of Mr. Buffett will recognize his strategies in Mr. Simpson's moves: invest in companies with a proven track records -- companies that have a strong management, steady growth, few competitors, surplus cash, good international exposure and a history of rewarding shareholders; search for undervalued companies; find businesses in which there's a high likelihood of growth, and, in the words of Professor Graham, search for companies with a "margin of safety" -- those that do well in good and bad times.
Gradually, Mr. Simpson concentrated larger sums of money in a handful of companies. In 1982, Geico had about $280 million of common stock in 33 companies. At the end of 1995, just before Berkshire's acquisition of Geico ended separate disclosures of the insurer's portfolio, Mr. Simpson had $1.1 billion invested in just 10 firms, including the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, and Manpower Inc., along with Nike and Mattel.
"He has this great ability to understand what's going to be a good business," said Glenn Greenberg, a longtime friend who is now a managing partner at Chieftain Capital Management. "And it's concentrated because there aren't that many really good businesses."
Because Geico follows these strategies, its portfolio has very little turnover and looks very little like those of its competitors. "Insurance companies are institutions, and they follow the prudent man rule of diversification," said Jeffrey Hopson, an insurance analyst at A. G. Edwards Inc., referring to broad diversification. "Geico is the unusual company here."
Admirers say Mr. Simpson's investing approach is prudent, too, in its own way. On weekdays, He arrives at his office at 6 A.M., and reads everything he can about companies that have caught his eye. Mr. Simpson and his staff of three assistants often visit the companies they invest in; once, a former staff member said, an aide went undercover at the Manpower temporary agency to study its training methods.
"His headlights go out further than anybody I know," Mr. Greenberg said. "It's like asking Picasso how he does it. He'll explain it and then you still can't put paint on a canvas like that."
For his efforts, Geico and Mr. Buffett have rewarded Mr. Simpson handsomely. Mr. Simpson holds the titles of president and co-chief executive.
In 1996, he earned a salary of about $600,000. His contract also gives him big bonuses if Geico's investments outperform the S.& P. 500 -- a feat that he has accomplished 13 times, earning an extra $1.5 million, for instance, in 1992. That same year, he exercised options that led to a $38 million profit. And in 1996, when Geico was purchased outright by Berkshire, he cashed in more than $25 million more.
What remains to be seen, though, is whether Mr. Simpson can step in for the man who is considered one of the greatest investors of all time.
Friends of Mr. Simpson say that he is not worried about the prospect -- and that he recognizes that it may never happen. For one thing, he is just six years younger than Mr. Buffett himself.
But Mr. Simpson, associates say, has derived great satisfaction from the recognition that Mr. Buffett has bestowed upon him. The two men speak regularly, about once a month. And since the early 1980's, Mr. Simpson has been part of the so-called Buffett Group, an inner circle of about 50 who gather with Mr. Buffett every other year for days of conversation about value investing, among other things.
Someday, those meetings will end. Upon Mr. Buffett's death, his Berkshire stock, which is today worth an estimated $19 billion will revert to his wife, Susan, or a foundation he intends to create. Mr. Buffett has told stockholders that Berkshire would operate under new management, according to the principles he has long followed.
Mr. Simpson will fit right in, according to Mr. Munger, because "he lives the catechism."
David R. Carr Jr., president of Oak Value Capital Management, an investment management company, and a Berkshire shareholder, agrees. "I don't believe Simpson is Buffett, but he's awfully good," Mr. Carr said. "He's one of the sainted crowd; he understands and practices value investing. And so if anything happened to Warren, we would be quite pleased to have Simpson holding the reins."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 1997, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Tuesday with an article about Louis A. Simpson of Geico Inc., who is expected to take over investing for its parent company, Berkshire Hathaway, misstated the compounded annual return from 1980 to 1996 on the stock investments of Geico and Berkshire, and the article misstated the period they covered. Geico's annual return was 23.2 percent, not 24.66 percent, and Berkshire's was 25.6 percent, not 26.77 percent. The period was 17 years, not 18.
Another chart with the article misstated the market value of Geico's holdings in two companies. Based on Tuesday's closing stock prices and Geico's disclosed holdings on Dec. 31, 1995, its shares in Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation were worth $45.825 million, not $458.25 million; its shares in York International Corporation were worth $20.979 million, not $209.79 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keeping his distance from Wall Street's daily gyrations, Louis A. Simpson manages the investments of Geico, an auto insurance company owned by Berkshire Hathaway, from a four-person office near San Diego. (Alan Decker for The New York Times)
 
Graph: Like his boss' investments at Berkshire Hathaway, Louis A. Simpson's stock picks for Geico have outperformed the market. Graph tracks performance of Berkshire Hathaway, Geico and the S & P 500 portfolios, from 1980 through 1996. (Analysis by The New York Times, based on company reports)
 
Tables/Photo: "Buy and Hold"
Both Mr. Simpson at Geico and Warren E. Buffet, left, at its parent company, Berkshire Hathaway, tend to buy big stakes in a handful of solid companies and hold them for the long haul. Tables list the most current data available on each portfolio's largest holdings. (Source: Company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%); KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (73%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC; GEICO CORP GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (91%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC; GEICO CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (73%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (57%); OMAHA, NE, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); INSURANCE (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (75%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; SIMPSON, LOUIS; BUFFETT, WARREN E WARREN BUFFETT (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997



627 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
A Clinton Adviser's Not-Always-Happy Memories

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:

LOCKED IN THE CABINET
By Robert B. Reich
338 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 "They're sawing off my legs," is the first line of Robert B. Reich's memoir of the four years he spent as Secretary of Labor during the first term of his friend and fellow Rhodes scholar Bill Clinton. Right away, in other words, the reader knows that Mr. Reich, who is talking about the hip replacement surgery he underwent before the 1992 election, is not going to write the conventional I-served-in-Government memoir. His purpose is to achieve something more personal, more lively, more truculent and more amusing than the usual political autobiography, and in this aim he has certainly succeeded.
In "Locked in the Cabinet," Mr. Reich has wrought a book that is both informative and full of charm. The author is self-deprecating, straightforward and blunt. He is also often more than a touch outrageous and unfair. He makes cartoon figures of those with different ideas and renders their own points of view as caricatures. His conversations with them often seem more like television sitcom dialogues than anything one would expect from a President's senior advisers. 
 Among the more liberal members of the Clinton team, Mr. Reich presents himself as a good guy and a reluctant power holder, a man refreshingly unskilled and naive in the ways of Washington politics. His two main concerns are the growing income gap between the rich and the poor in America and the way his Cabinet post keeps him from spending time with his two sons and wife. (He left the Cabinet at the start of Mr. Clinton's second term, saying he wanted to spend more time with his family).
This is a book, in short, that is hard not to like in large part because Mr. Reich is himself so likable in it. His brief account of his appearance on a Midwestern radio talk show during which he runs into a buzz saw of common-man eloquence brings with it a hilarious shock of recognition. So does his description of the way he learned to answer questions during his Senate confirmation hearings. ("I look forward to working with you on that, Senator," is the mantra that assures senatorial approval; actually explaining what you think about a matter of social policy courts disaster.) "Locked in the Cabinet" may also give the best impression to date of what life was like in the inner councils of the first Clinton Administration, and it is far from a uniformly favorable portrait.
All of this is true even though some of Mr. Reich's arguments, his continual railings against "deficit hawks," a label he applies to the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, even his constant calls for Federal financing of job training (a veritable panacea for Mr. Reich), involve doing what he accuses others of doing: operating on a kind of intellectual automatic pilot, reiterating articles of faith rather than fully arguing his positions.
"Alan Greenspan and his Federal Reserve Bank forge on," Mr. Reich comments during the Government shutdown of December 1995, "quietly threatening havoc unless there's a balanced-budget agreement, gently reassuring Wall Street in the meantime that it will maintain an iron grip on inflation by keeping millions of Americans unemployed."
This is shoot-from-the-hip analysis, one of several applied to Mr. Greenspan and others whom Mr. Reich portrays as eagerly complicit with the corporate greed that is ruining America. In one instance, he allows his satirical side to run riot, imagining Mr. Greenspan blackmailing the President during a White House meeting. If Mr. Clinton fails to take an ax to the deficit, this fictitious Mr. Greenspan warns, "I will wreck the economy. That will make people unhappy. And they won't be unhappy with me. They will be unhappy with you."
Mr. Reich uses the diary form to recount his experience as Labor Secretary, marching chronologically through the four and a half years between his hip surgery on June 17, 1992, and Feb. 16, 1997, when he returned to his family life in Boston a wiser and disillusioned man. In between are marvelous scenes: Mr. Clinton blowing his nose in Little Rock, suffering from allergies; Mr. Reich hooted down at a meeting of the National Association of Manufacturers as he tries to convince employers to give up their legal right to fire striking workers; his meetings with Richard Morris, the media consultant hired by Mr. Clinton to run his 1996 campaign, a man Mr. Reich calls "the black hole."
"He's humorless," Mr. Reich says. "I'm sitting with a robot." And then: "He is Mephistopheles, the corrupter of all means to an end that is never fully realized; the ultimate betrayer."
There are underlying themes, one of them being Mr. Reich's disappointment with Mr. Clinton, a disappointment always tempered by his personal affection for the President. Mr. Clinton to him is a man who wants the right things for America but lacks the instinct for leadership or the taste for battle that will enable him to get them done. "Deep down," Mr. Reich writes in 1995, "I worry he's so eager to accommodate the other side that he has lost sight of the larger goals he came to Washington to accomplish."
The more conspicuous theme has to do with powerlessness, or, more accurately, the limits on any Cabinet member's power to effect change, hemmed in as each is by Congress, public opinion and struggles for power within the Cabinet itself. That is the essence of Mr. Reich's title, which refers to his inability to tell the truth about job insecurity and declining working-class incomes during the good-news-only 1996 election campaign run by Mr. Morris. "Just try going a week without mentioning the word 'anxiety,' " George Stephanopoulos jokingly tells Mr. Reich at one point, to which Mr. Reich jokingly replies: "O.K., I'll just use 'hysteria' instead."
The formerly powerless Mr. Reich, now liberated from the Cabinet, has his say in this diary of Government service, proving that even a lowly and frustrated Labor Secretary can regain his voice and make it loud enough for everyone to hear.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert B. Reich. (Allen Penn/Alfred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LOCKED IN THE CABINET (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LITERATURE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WRITERS (75%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (52%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



628 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Data Showing Little Inflation Lift Bonds

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Economic data that were surprisingly softer than expected lifted bond prices yesterday, sending yields in the Treasuries market plunging to their lowest levels in a month.
But while expectations of another interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve were diminished, analysts cautioned that the data the market is digesting cover past events but it is future inflation that the central bank seeks to contain. 
 The price of the Treasury's 30-year benchmark bond jumped 1 17/32 points, to 95 19/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, tumbled to 6.98 percent, from 7.11 percent on Monday. That was the bond's lowest yield since March 26, when it was also 6.98 percent. For bondholders it meant a gain of $15.31 for each $1,000 invested.
The major engine behind the movement was the report by the Labor Department on its Employment Cost Index, a measure of wages, salaries and benefits. The index rose six-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter, after rising eight-tenths of 1 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. Analysts had expected a gain of nine-tenths of 1 percent.
The new report clearly brought into question whether the Fed needs to raise interest rates further, since the evidence suggests no threat of inflation.
Another Government report yesterday showed an unexpected drop in orders for durable goods, providing further evidence of a slowing economy. Also giving bonds support was a Conference Board report on consumer confidence in April, which slipped to 116.8, from 118.5 in March. That suggests a lack of inflationary pressure as well.
But the report on labor costs was the focus. Traders had fretted that the data would show a bigger jump in job costs and make the Fed more aggressive in trying to reign in future inflation.
The next meeting of the Fed's policy-making arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, is May 20. At its last meeting in March, the committee raised the Federal funds target rate -- that is, for overnight loans between banks -- by 25 basis points, or a quarter of a percentage point, to 5.50 percent.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "Given the strength in the economy over the past six months, the lack of any upward pressure on employment costs must be somewhat perplexing to the Fed."
At the same time, he said, the Federal Reserve has shown more concern with the Employment Cost Index's future performance "and will do what it deems necessary to insure that employment costs will not spiral upward in the future."
In a similar vein, Mr. Fine said that the sharp 3 percent drop in new orders for durable goods in March, along with a noticeable downward revision for February, did not necessarily imply future weakness; rather, he said, it showed that strength seen previously was not a portent of overly rapid growth in this sector.
He said growth in durable goods orders on a year-over-year basis continued on a moderate and steady course in the first quarter, which suggests a slower but more sustainable rate of gross domestic product growth.
"While the bond market's reaction to today's data was swift and strongly positive," Mr. Fine said, "there are more key numbers to deal with before the week concludes," including the G.D.P. figures today, the National Association of Purchasing Management index tomorrow and, most importantly, the labor market statistics on Friday.
"Today's figures, while unquestionably beneficial, should not be interpreted as implying an end to Fed tightening, nor do they necessarily suggest no Fed tightening at the May meeting," he said.
"Indeed, another round of Fed tightening still has a high probability, and if the F.O.M.C. is still in a pre-emptive mode, it argues against waiting and keeps May 20 as a possible date for the next move to a less accommodating stance."
Mr. Fine concluded, "Today's market action, however, raises the probability that the next Fed move might be the last Fed move, at least for a while."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); NEW ORDERS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



629 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Progress Reported in White House-Congress Talks on Budget

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
The White House and negotiators from both parties in Congress inched closer to a deal on balancing the Federal budget today, with both sides saying a compromise was possible, but by no means certain, within days.
Clinton Administration officials scurried between meetings on Capitol Hill, sounding out Congressional Democrats and hearing almost nothing but criticism that the White House was too eager to get a deal with the Republicans. But officials said President Clinton was prepared to meet with the leaders of both parties to try to bridge the remaining differences, which center on the size and composition of the tax cuts demanded by Republicans and the insistence among Democrats that cuts in domestic spending be limited. 
 "We have an opportunity here in the next 24 hours to come to closure on this," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader.
The broad outlines of the deal under discussion include a net tax cut of about $100 billion over the next five years, a reduction in the growth of Medicare spending of at least $105 billion, and cuts in domestic programs greater than the $46 billion contained in the budget proposal that the President sent to Congress earlier this year.
But the two sides would still fall about $50 billion short of eliminating the deficit by the target date of 2002. They hope to plug that hole in part by adopting slightly more optimistic assumptions about the size of future deficits than Republicans had previously been willing to consider.
Last year's budget deficit was $107 billion, the lowest since 1981, and even without a budget deal the deficit is declining sharply again this year because of unexpectedly strong economic growth and a surprising surge in tax revenue. Government analysts said this year's deficit could be as low as $90 billion, and some private economists think that number could be as low as $70 billion. The total budget this year is $1.6 trillion.
Negotiators from both sides also showed a new willingness today to publicly embrace a change in the way cost-of-living adjustments are calculated for Social Security recipients, a money-saving move that budget analysts have long said would be a critical component in any deal. Both Democratic and Republican officials said they would support including in the budget a reduction in the Consumer Price Index of a quarter of a percentage point, or perhaps a bit more, to reflect revisions in the index being studied by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Such a change would save tens of billions of dollars by 2002, the year by which both parties have pledged to eliminate the Federal deficit. Some influential Democrats and Republicans had been pressing for a far bigger revision on the ground that the index appears to overstate inflation by more than one percentage point, but they ran afoul of intense opposition from the elderly and other powerful interest groups.
As recently as Monday, Senator Lott had said Republicans could not vote for any change in the index. But today he said that if the change derived from recommendations by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, "that would be a different matter."
Administration officials were slightly more cautious, especially after spending the day hearing warnings from Congressional Democrats that they would not go along with a deal that did not fully protect spending on education, health care, the environment and welfare.
Senate Democrats told Administration officials at a closed-door meeting that they were particularly concerned about the White House's apparent acquiescence to Republican demands for tax reductions that would become increasingly costly after the five years covered by the agreement they are negotiating. Republicans are particularly intent on a deep reduction in the capital gains tax on profit from the sale of stocks, real estate and other assets.
Tax analysts project that a reduction in the tax could generate additional revenue for the Government in the short run by encouraging people to sell assets that they would otherwise have held onto. But there is deep disagreement among economists about whether that effect would continue in the long run, with one camp insisting that the cost of the tax cuts would mount rapidly, and the other arguing that the tax cuts would spur greater economic growth and a continued surge in revenue.
Democrats in both the House and the Senate also subjected Administration officials, including the White House chief of staff, Erskine B. Bowles, to sharp criticism of the Administration's handling of the budget negotiations, saying Mr. Clinton should strike a more aggressive posture with Republicans and not be so eager to get a deal.
"Almost everyone there believes strongly that we need a balanced budget," Mr. Bowles said after meeting with House Democrats. "Some would rather for us to wait and discuss it for a longer period. "
But Administration officials as well as Mr. Lott are pushing hard to wrap up a deal before the President leaves on a trip to Mexico next week. While both sides said they were prepared to continue negotiating indefinitely, the negotiators have said their job will become harder as time passes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MEDICARE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (90%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



630 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: China, Wary on Mood of Congress, Balks at Opening Markets

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
China's top leaders want assurances that Congress will not block Beijing's long-sought entry into the World Trade Organization because of allegations of Chinese involvement in the campaign finance scandal and a growing anti-China mood on Capitol Hill, the director general of the organization said today.
Chinese officials have hinted that if they do not receive the assurances, they may not commit China to further openings of its markets that are required for membership in the organization, said the W.T.O. director, Renato Ruggiero. 
 Both China and the United States have said they want to conclude negotiations for Beijing's entry into the club of trading nations this year, before the first of several summit meetings between President Clinton and Jiang Zemin, China's President.
China's leaders want both the international prestige and economic benefits of membership, while American officials say they want to bring China into a system that will force it to obey world rules -- first in trade, then in other areas -- that Beijing has often flouted.
Even before the Congressional mood in Washington turned against China in recent months, there were doubts about the outcome of the negotiations. Though China has offered to open its markets more widely in return for membership, its leaders have been hesitant to make the sweeping and politically agonizing economic changes the United States is demanding. Among them are the reduction of protection for domestic industry and the phase-out of subsidies to the state-run industries that employ 70 percent of China's urban population.
But today Mr. Ruggiero said that in discussions in Beijing last week, China's Prime Minister, Li Peng, and other leaders wanted to make sure that "Congress does not have a surprise in store for them" if they carry out the changes.
"They want to know that, when every other requirement to join is satisfied, there will be no 'political veto' from the United States," he said.
As Mr. Ruggiero spoke today to a group of reporters here, China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, was on Capitol Hill attempting to assess whether Congress would seek to block China's entry to the group. Speaking to American business executives, he denounced, but did not identify, critics of Beijing here who he said were "spreading the China-threat theory."
Administration officials, who refused to speak for attribution, said they also received signals in recent weeks that China wanted a reading of the intentions of Congress before they disclosed the heart of their "offer" -- the details of the economic changes they are willing to make -- in Geneva next month.
"It is a matter of face for them," one senior Administration official said today. "They don't want to make a politically risky offer if they think we will slap them down."
Mr. Ruggiero said he had counseled Mr. Li and others to go ahead with their market openings and economic reforms, in the hope that the politics of China's entry will get sorted out later.
But the message Mr. Ruggiero brought here from Beijing, along with Mr. Qian's comments, underscored how deeply the renewed economic and military concern about China, and the yet-unproven allegations that Beijing sought to influence the 1996 election, are affecting policy making in Washington.
On Wednesday, a Presidential commission on trade policy in the Pacific will submit a report arguing that China should be admitted to the trade organization, but that the United States "should be inflexible" in insisting that Beijing agree to all of the open-trading rules that govern other nations.
In a sharp dissent, however, 3 of 18 commission members argue that Washington should "oppose China's membership in the W.T.O. until it has completed those reforms of its economy needed to achieve compliance with all existing international agreements," a process that could take years.
"There is no good reason to rush China into the W.T.O.," the dissenters concluded, noting that there are "fundamental conflicts between our two economic systems."
Even the commission, however, was touched by the campaign finance investigations. Early last year, when the commission was first formed, Mr. Clinton appointed as one of its members Yah Lin (Charlie) Trie, a former Arkansas restauranteur who has since emerged as a target of both Justice Department and Congressional investigations.
Mr. Trie, who has left the country, made very large and still unexplained contributions to Mr. Clinton's legal defense fund last year. He also helped a top Chinese official who heads a state-run arms manufacturing company to gain access to a White House coffee with the President. The contributions have been returned, and commission members say Mr. Trie has not attended a commission hearing since last year and has played almost no role in its debates.
It may be months before anyone knows whether China's market-opening and deregulation offers will meet Washington's criteria, or if Congress will find a way to block Beijing from joining the organization. The United States holds a de facto veto over China's entry, though traditionally that is a foreign policy issue handled by the White House, not the Congress.
Mr. Ruggiero warned today that keeping China out of the World Trade Organization could affect the applications of other countries. The United States is committed to getting Russia into the organization by the end of 1998, he noted, and China will insist on equal treatment. And China must be admitted before Taiwan can gain entry, other officials say.
"What we need to know is do we want China in or not?" Mr. Ruggiero said today. "Of course, this is more than a matter of trade. It is a question of politics and how China will relate to the West. And for China it is a matter of pride."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (52%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); SCANDALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; RUGGIERO, RENATO BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



631 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has First Fall in Week On Soft Labor Costs Numbers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday for the first time in nearly a week after a report showed a mild rise in United States labor costs. The new data reduce the prospects that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates at its May meeting.
The Labor Department reported yesterday that the employment cost index rose a mild six-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter. The figure touched off strong rallies in the stock and bond markets and sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 179.01 points, its second-biggest point gain ever. 
 But the currency market viewed the data as a good opportunity to sell the dollar and lock in profits on its recent gains.
Expectations of rising interest rates and a vibrant United States economy have been an important force pushing the dollar higher for months. Higher rates tend to make dollar-denominated assets more attractive.
"The first reaction was, 'Oh, we won't see any Fed action in May, no tightening,' so we sold the dollar," said Hans Boman, vice president for foreign-exchange sales at Swedbank in New York.
The dollar settled at 1.7243 marks, down from 1.7330 marks on Monday. The dollar also fell to 126.87 yen from 126.98 yen. The pound rose to $1.6316 from $1.6247.
The retreat marked the first time since April 23 that the dollar has fallen broadly and eroded gains made after traders took a statement from the Group of Seven leading industrial nations as a sign that central banks would not act aggressively to halt the dollar's recent rise.
But the dollar's decline against the yen was muted, partly because the yen also weakened against the mark and other European currencies. Traders attributed the yen's weakness partly to a market holiday in Japan and to persistent evidence of economic sluggishness in Japan.
Currency traders said that despite the dollar's decline, the underlying forces pushing the currency higher remained firmly in place.
"There was a small case to be made today for the dollar to be sold, but we still have excellent growth with low inflation," said John McCarthy, senior vice president for foreign exchange at ING Capital Markets Inc. in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SWED.A (STO) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) SWEDBANK AB (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES CURRENCIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BONDS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); GERMAN MARK (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BRITISH POUND (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



632 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Durable Orders and Buyer Confidence Fall

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
Orders to factories for durable goods fell in March, the Government reported today, a sign the economy may be losing some of the momentum that caused the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates last month.
In a separate report, the Conference Board said Americans' confidence in the economy fell more than expected this month even as consumers remained upbeat about the economy's prospects for the next six months. 
 The Commerce Department said that orders for durable goods decreased 3 percent last month, the largest decline since last August. Analysts had expected today's data to show that orders for big-ticket items increased three-tenths of 1 percent.
Moreover, February's increase in orders was revised to show a gain of only eight-tenths of 1 percent, not the 1.5 percent reported initially.
Excluding the often-volatile category of transportation equipment, March's orders fell 2.6 percent. Excluding military hardware, orders declined by the same amount.
Economists caution that it is difficult to discern trends from month-to-month shifts in durable goods orders, which are heavily influenced by large changes in orders for commercial jetliners and military weaponry. Nevertheless, today's report provided an indication that economic growth was moderating, reducing the risk of accelerating inflation.
Orders for electronic and other electrical equipment led the March decline. Orders also fell for transportation equipment, industrial machinery and equipment, primary metals and instruments and related products.
Unfilled orders, a gauge of pent-up demand, decreased seven-tenths of 1 percent during March. Shipments of goods, a measure of current demand, rose by the same amount.
The aviation industry is a major component of the durable goods report. Because the dollar value of new airplanes is so great, changes in the aircraft category can have huge effects on the overall number.
The Boeing Company, the world's largest maker of civilian aircraft, has reported a decrease in new orders during the first quarter. Its chairman and chief executive, Philip Condit, said on Monday that even though competition for new orders remained intense, he expected aircraft deliveries to rise sharply during the next two or three years.
In the report on consumer confidence, the Conference Board said its index of confidence for April fell to 116.8 from 118.5 in March, which had been close to an eight-year high. Meantime, the index that measures consumers' expectations for the next six months rose to 101.4 from 101.1.
"The decline in confidence isn't worrisome, with consumers continuing to rate overall economic conditions favorably," said Lynn Franco, associate director of the New York group's consumer research center.
Today's report suggested consumers were less upbeat about their financial prospects. That would make it less likely that they would continue to spend and propel the economy in the months ahead. Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity.
The Conference Board found that fewer respondents than in March expected their incomes to rise over the next six months. The indexes measuring consumers' plans to buy a home, an automobile or a major appliance over the next six months all fell.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted, from October 1996 through March 1997. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD BOEING CO (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (93%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



633 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Names 3 to Panel to Examine the Effects of Gambling

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29

 BODY:
More than six months after a legislative deadline, President Clinton today made his three appointments to a nine-member commission charged with examining the social and economic effects of gambling.
As his choices to sit on the advisory board, which will report to Congress after two years of hearings and study, Mr. Clinton selected one known supporter of legalized gambling -- William A. Bible, the chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board -- and two other men that White House aides said leaned against it. 
 Besides Mr. Bible, the President chose Robert Wayne Loescher, a member of the Tlingit Tribe of Alaska and vice president of natural resources management for the Sealaska Corporation, and Richard C. Leone, the president of a nonprofit public policy research institute, the Twentieth Century Fund, and former chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Mr. Leone is also a former state treasurer of New Jersey who opposed the legalization of casino gambling in Atlantic City in the 1970's.
The six other commissioners had already been chosen by members of Congress. The appointments have been closely monitored by the gambling industry and its opponents, an array of religious groups and others concerned about the effects of gambling on individuals and communities. They are sure to turn the commission's deliberations into a fierce tug-of-war over the the future of the $550 billion industry.
Before today, the panel had been seen as evenly divided between supporters and opponents of legalized gambling and fence-sitters. If the White House's characterization of its appointees' views proves accurate, gambling skeptics have a slight edge, but not a majority.
Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman, said Mr. Bible, in his third four-year term as chairman of the state board, "comes with a great deal of expertise, and I think he will certainly be open-minded and impartial in listening to the arguments that others advance."
But Representative Frank R. Wolf, Republican of Virginia, who fought for the legislation creating the commission, asserted that by choosing Mr. Bible, the President had tilted the commission toward the gambling industry.
"The President had a golden opportunity to rise above politics and do what is right for the American people," he said. "Instead, the President declined to appoint three objective people to the commission, and even appointed a promoter of the gambling industry."
But Tom Grey, executive director of the National Coalition against Legalized Gambling, said he considered at least two of the final selections superior to names the White House had floated earlier. "This is a playable deck for us," he said. "There's a little relief in these three."
Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr., the president and chief executive of the American Gaming Association, said Mr. Clinton, like the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, and Speaker Newt Gingrich, had fulfilled Congress's intent by choosing commissioners with a variety of views. "They weren't picking a jury," he said. Mr. Lott and Mr. Gingrich each controlled three other choices, though they gave some to other legislators.
Mr. Fahrenkopf called Mr. Bible a "tough cop" and "a guy known for his integrity." Mr. Clinton's choices were certain to be scrutinized for signs of political payback, since gambling interests, including Indian tribes, contributed heavily to the Democratic National Committee before the 1996 election. Mr. Clinton has also played golf with Steve Wynn, a big Democratic contributor and casino owner. One Administration official acknowledged that concerns about such criticism had weighed on the search for commissioners.
But the official said the delay was mainly a result of the White House's difficulty in finding an American Indian "who had either skeptical or negative views on gaming."
Mr. Clinton had been committed to appointing an American Indian, and wanted at least two of his appointees to be skeptics of legalized gambling.
Some gambling opponents said today that in selecting Mr. Bible, President Clinton was settling his political debts. "As the unfolding campaign finance scandal highlights, President Clinton has now sold his appointment to the highest bidder and has made this body the best commission money can buy," said Ralph Reed, , who is about to step down as executive director of the Christian Coalition.
In an interview, Mr. Leone said he did not have a "definitive view" of gambling and was "not going to pretend to be up on the issues." But, he said, "I am very troubled" by growth of gambling.
 The appointment of Mr. Loescher appeared to catch both supporters and opponents of legalized gambling by surprise, and both sides said they could not characterize his views. Mr. McCurry said Mr. Loescher "personally has anti-gambling convictions, although he recognizes that Native American tribes do have a right to pursue lawful activities under the Federal act."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (70%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (70%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEALASKA CORP (70%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (56%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (56%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES US PRESIDENTS (90%); GAMING (90%); RELIGION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CASINOS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (55%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BIBLE, WILLIAM A; LOESCHER, ROBERT WAYNE; LEONE, RICHARD C BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); FRANK R WOLF (57%); BARNEY FRANK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



634 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Europe Falls For Fool's Gold

BYLINE: By Jacob Heilbrunn; Jacob Heilbrunn is an associate editor at The New Republic and a fellow at the Center for German and European Studies at Georgetown University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Prime Minister John Major's election-eve conversion into a Euro-skeptic transformed Britain's campaign into a fight over the future of Europe. Good for Mr. Major. Though a chorus of critics has denounced him -- Jacques Santer, the European Commission president, talked of "merchants of doom" -- the Prime Minister's warnings against the rush to the European monetary union in 1999 are overdue.
The 1992 Maastricht Treaty, which calls for creation of a common currency, is the European equivalent of the Clinton health plan: ambitious, well-intentioned and utterly unworkable. If the common currency, called the euro, is rammed through, it would not reduce the inefficient European welfare state, but it would further shut the United States out of European markets. 
 Fortunately Mr. Major is not alone in voicing misgivings about the common currency. Most Germans are as terrified of the euro as the British are; almost 80 percent of voters in Germany oppose it. People are most concerned about the strict fiscal restraints that monetary union would bring. Preparing for it has forced Germany, for example, to slash spending at a time when unemployment is more than 12 percent -- the highest level since Weimar.
In Germany, the euro's critics range from Edmund Stoiber, the leader of the conservative Bavarian Christian Social Union, to Gerhard Schroder, the Social Democratic premier of Lower Saxony, who has said that "one has to be able to stop a train that's going in the false direction as long as it's still possible to do so." In France, apprehensions are being voiced not just on the far right, but from mainstream figures like Charles Pasqua, a Gaullist and former Interior Minister, and the Socialist Party leader, Lionel Jospin.
With elections coming in France and Germany, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, leader of the pro-union crowd, is trying to brush off such dissent as illegitimate nationalism. Yet the skeptics' ranks keep growing.
Mr. Kohl and his allies say monetary union would have two main benefits. First, a stable euro would "Thatcherize" the continent by imposing needed fiscal responsibility on nations like France and Italy. Second, it would lower the costs of doing business between countries. But the theories of Maastricht are only words on paper.
Under the treaty, countries with a deficit of more than 3 percent of their gross domestic product for two years running would pay a fine of up to 0.5 percent of their G.D.P. No longer, the idea goes, would France and Spain be able to run large deficits; fiscal restraint would be imposed on them by a central bank in Germany.
But does anyone really believe that Spain would meekly fork over twice the G.D.P. of Luxembourg as a consequence of overshooting its fiscal boundaries? With unemployment at record rates, French voters are already balking at the fiscal cuts needed to meet the 3 percent requirement. Such fiscal conservatism would only inflame the nationalistic passions that so worry Chancellor Kohl.
Indeed, the French and the Belgians are already calling for a "stability council" composed of European finance ministers that would "advise" the central bank on interest rates. This means that political pressure could be exerted on the supposedly neutral bank to, say, reduce rates to help the French economy, a move that would likely spur inflation across the continent. So much for lowering the costs of doing business.
One must also consider the record of the European Union itself on fiscal discipline. The organization has for decades doled out huge subsidies, especially to agricultural interests in the poorer countries of southern Europe; nothing in Maastricht would stop this. In fact, looking ahead to the euro, European Union commissioners are already horse-trading over getting subsidies for their pet projects.
Far from Thatcherizing Europe, the euro would only end up worsening the continent's economic ills. Bad news for Europe does not mean good news for the United States, and the Clinton Administration's complacency about the euro is alarming. If the euro is a weak currency in international markets, investors will buy up American dollars. This will make United States goods more expensive in Europe, hurting our overall trade deficit. America would be far better served by a loose confederation of European states that it could play off against one another.
Europe is on the verge of a great blunder that could allow member nations to avoid painful social welfare decisions and could provoke the very nationalist passions the euro was supposed to suppress.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Patrick Chappatte)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); 

STATE: LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (54%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (54%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MONETARY UNIONS (92%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%); 

PERSON: HEILBRUNN, JACOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GERHARD SCHRODER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



635 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: As Vote Nears, Mexican Party Muzzles Foes

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 29

 BODY:
Facing what may be one of the most competitive nationwide elections here in decades, the Government and lawmakers from Mexico's governing party have moved to suppress the activities and influence of several foreign critics, watchdog groups and domestic gadflies.
In recent days the authorities have expelled three human rights campaigners from the country, and pro-Government lawmakers have introduced a bill in Congress outlawing foreign financial support for independent election observers. Also, a prominent academic was dismissed from a weekly radio show after he criticized President Ernesto Zedillo. 
 "The Government seems to be closing down political spaces that had opened for the opposition," Jose Miguel Vivanco, executive director of Human Rights Watch Americas, a Washington-based group, said after meeting with human rights advocates and Government officials here today. "They're saying to domestic critics, 'Watch what you do,' and to foreigners, 'You're not welcome.' "
Mr. Vivanco was here for the release today of a survey of rights conditions in rural Mexico. The report concludes that armed local supporters of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, occasionally assisted by the police, have waged a kind of low-intensity war on opponents of the Government across much of the Mexican countryside, using violence "to retain or win political or economic power." Violence against PRI opponents frequently goes unpunished, the report says.
The report calls on the Clinton Administration to "condition security aid to Mexico on concrete human rights goals." Issued six days before President Clinton is to arrive here for his first state visit, the report is likely to further irritate Government officials already up in arms over foreign criticism in the wake of disputes with Washington over Mexico's narcotics crisis.
Miguel Angel Gonzalez Felix, a legal adviser to Mexico's Foreign Ministry, said the rights report "lacked objectivity."
"The Zedillo Government is trying to fight impunity so that the law is applied equally to citizens at all levels," he said. He justified the expulsion of the rights campaigners because they were traveling on tourist visas and had not been authorized to do human rights work. The bill banning foreign financing for election observation simply aimed to provide rules for an electoral activity that currently has none, he said, but has been withdrawn.
"There's no Government crackdown under way here," Mr. Gonzalez Felix said.
The first of the recent measures against rights advocates came on April 16, when immigration authorities ordered two representatives of the Paris-based International Federation of Human Rights, who were investigating reports of abuses by security forces in the southwestern state of Guerrero, to leave Mexico within 72 hours.
Last week the authorities followed by ordering George Ann Potter, a director of the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee, a Massachusetts rights organization, to leave Mexico within 72 hours.
Richard S. Scobie, the committee's executive director, said by phone from Cambridge, Mass., after Ms. Potter left Mexico, that he believed the Government may have targeted the committee partly because of its efforts to publicize the two-day abduction last fall of the family of a Mexican rights campaigner in the southern state of Chiapas.
"The Government just wants us to be quiet and stop putting the spotlight on abuses," Mr. Scobie said.
Several of the Government's recent moves appear related to concerns about the outcome of nationwide congressional and Mexico City mayor elections scheduled for July 6.
Last week PRI lawmakers approved a bill in a committee of the Chamber of Deputies that would ban foreign donations to Mexican election observer groups. Rogelio Gomez Hermosilla, a leader of the Alianza Civica, a citizens group that helped guard against fraud in 1994 presidential elections, said the PRI bill aimed to undercut groups seeking to monitor the July 6 vote.
After the bill aroused an outcry, PRI lawmakers announced that they would temporarily delay consideration of it. In a similar move last month, the Mexican Government persuaded the European Union to rescind a $420,000 donation to the Mexican Academy of Human Rights aimed at financing the poll watchers.
Election season censorship may also have been behind the dismissal of Lorenzo Meyer, a historian at the Colegio de Mexico, from his part-time job as a political commentator on a weekly Mexico City talk radio show. During an April 14 broadcast, Mr. Meyer noted that after his December 1994 inauguration, Mr. Zedillo promised to maintain a "healthy distance" from the PRI; Mr. Meyer criticized the President for abandoning that posture in recent weeks by campaigning for PRI candidates and lashing the opposition.
Days later, a manager at Mr. Meyer's radio station dismissed him, and Mr. Meyer said he had been told by people familiar with his ouster that it had been orchestrated by a senior Government official.
"There was nothing personal about this," Mr. Meyer said. "That's just how it works in Mexico. When elections approach -- bash! -- the Government clamps down."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH/AMERICAS (ORGN) RICHARD S GOLDSTEIN (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH/AMERICAS (ORGN) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



636 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: New York Demands More Taxes From Port Authority if Trade Center Is Sold or Leased

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
New York City will sue the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to prevent the agency from selling or leasing the World Trade Center unless any such transaction involves a huge increase in property taxes paid to the city, one of the top advisers to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday.
John Dyson, the chairman of the Mayor's Council of Economic Advisers, said in an interview that the threat of a lawsuit was intended to make clear to Port Authority board members that the city would fight any attempt to pass along the benefits of sharply reduced taxes, which have been extended to the World Trade Center since it was built in the 1960's, to a private landlord or management company. 
 At a time of conflict on many fronts between City Hall and the Port Authority -- Mr. Giuliani has said he wants the agency to be disbanded -- Mr. Dyson said he feared that the proposed sale or lease of the World Trade Center would conform to a pattern in which the city has received less than its fair share from Port Authority operations.
"We are advising them not to try to stiff the city," said Mr. Dyson, a former deputy mayor for finance who was one of the architects of Mayor Giuliani's program of tax breaks, which are intended to attract new residents and businesses to old real estate in lower Manhattan.
If the World Trade Center were turned over to private interests and retained the benefits of low taxes, he said, it would have an unfair advantage and be in direct competition for the same commercial tenants that the Mayor's plan is meant to attract.
"If you put the World Trade Center in the hands of a real estate guy who knows what he is doing, he would tempt tenants away," Mr. Dyson said.
Port Authority officials, who have been studying several options for selling, leasing or parceling out portions of the World Trade Center to private operators, said that Mr. Dyson's threat of legal action had taken them off guard because no decisions about the future of the commercial complex had been made.
"All of this is very premature," said Kathy Donovan, a Port Authority board member and former agency chairwoman from Lyndhurst, N.J.
The agency's director of communications, Mark O. Harfield Jr., said that several options remained open for the World Trade Center, including "maintaining the status quo," with the Port Authority both its owner and operator.
"I can assure you the board's deliberations will take into account the Mayor's issues," he said. "No final determination will be made precipitously."
But a Port Authority official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the agency's board was expected to make its decision about what to do with the huge lower Manhattan complex -- with 10 million square feet of office space -- within two months. The most profitable option, according to an outside consultant's report, would be to lease the complex to a private management company for 99 years.
That conclusion, the official said yesterday, was reached by J. P. Morgan & Company in a preliminary report now being circulated among the agency's board members. The report estimated that by the year 2012, the agency could expect to receive $1.1 billion from a 99-year lease on the entire complex, compared with $709 million in commercial rents if it continued operating the complex itself.
Selling the complex would be the least profitable option, J. P. Morgan said, since a sale could be completed only if bonds that were issued to finance its construction were repaid. In the case of a sale, Morgan estimated that the Port Authority would receive $528.7 million.
It could not be determined yesterday whether J. P. Morgan's conclusions assumed that a sale or lease would have any impact on the amount of property taxes assessed from the World Trade Center. But Mr. Dyson said a previous study, completed in January by Chemical Bank, had concluded that the complex could be sold with the new owner assuming the same tax benefits now conferred on the Port Authority.
He said that $23 million in property taxes was being paid on the complex each year: less than one-quarter of what would be assessed without its special tax benefits.
Those benefits are based on a New York State statute that was adopted for the World Trade Center complex when it was built, enabling the Port Authority to pay reduced taxes because its commercial project was designed to reinvigorate the economy of lower Manhattan and promote international trade.
But Mr. Dyson said that language contained in the same statute could now be used to challenge the Port Authority's tax breaks if it tried to sell or lease the complex. He said the statute specified that "no municipality will suffer undue loss of taxes" through the operation of the World Trade Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; SUITS AND LITIGATION PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LITIGATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; DYSON, JOHN S RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



637 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: A Chance to Shrink the Pentagon

 BODY:
With foreign military threats receding and pressure to balance the budget building, the Clinton Administration and Congress have a rare opportunity to reduce Pentagon spending to more reasonable levels. Maintaining American military superiority is vital, but it does not require an annual Pentagon budget of $250 billion.
Making reductions must begin with recognition that cold-war benchmarks are misleading. Arguing that a 1998 Pentagon budget of $250 billion is dangerously diminished because it falls 40 percent below the 1985 level is tomfoolery. It dodges the essential point that most defense spending from 1947 to 1992 was devoted to dealing with the Soviet Union and its allies, a threat that no longer exists. 
 Politicians should also recognize that Pentagon spending is a significant force only in communities with large defense manufacturers or military bases. Pentagon spending is not the flywheel of prosperity in a $7 trillion national economy.
Certainly, the United States cannot be complacent about its security. Iraq remains a threat to American interests in the Persian Gulf region. North Korea, strained by famine and heavily armed, could seek relief by renewing hostilities on the Korean Peninsula. China aims to be a military power in the decades ahead. Terrorism is a constant danger, and the need to send American troops abroad in peacekeeping roles is likely to grow. But no current or near-term peril comes anywhere close to the former Soviet threat.
The Pentagon is examining military requirements as part of its Quadrennial Defense Review, but do not expect much creative thinking from this exercise. The generals should be redesigning the American military to meet the threats of a new era, an exercise that might well slash budgets and discard the principle that America be able to fight two regional wars simultaneously.
That principle has justified an Army of 495,000 active-duty troops and a Navy with 12 aircraft carriers, just one less than the cold-war fleet. Scaling back to a more realistic one-war doctrine, plus sufficient air power to pin down an enemy elsewhere, would save $10 billion to $20 billion a year, even with more spending on stealth aircraft. Closing and consolidating bases and other support operations would produce additional savings.
Instead of looking seriously at these options, the generals are trying to determine how little they can cut within the Administration's five-year budget plan for the Pentagon. Under that plan, the budget would grow steadily, reaching $278 billion in 2002. It includes a whopping 40 percent increase in spending for new weapons.
It would be interesting to see where planning would lead if it were not governed by the Clinton Administration's escalating Pentagon budgets and the military's exaggerated threat assessments. It is not unreasonable to believe that American security can be adequately protected for considerably less than $250 billion a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (75%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (50%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (56%); INDIAN OCEAN (75%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS DEFENSE SPENDING (94%); BUDGETS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); COLD WAR (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); CLOSINGS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); FAMINE (71%); TERRORISM (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



638 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Commerce

 BODY:
Using data from the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, a Congressional staff study has confirmed what many have long suspected. A large percentage of the guns used in crimes nationwide can be traced back to a handful of states with the weakest gun control laws. The study, prepared by the staff of Representative Charles Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat, confirms the urgent need for a Federal crackdown on professional gun-runners and their deadly export business.
States like New York and New Jersey, which have strict handgun laws, are lucrative targets for gun-runners, who legally purchase several dozen cheap pistols in less restrictive states and then transport them to more restrictive states for resale on the black market. Just yesterday, for example, the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert Morgenthau, and New York City's Police Commissioner, Howard Safir, announced indictments against participants in a Harlem gun-running ring that purchased large quantities of handguns in Georgia and resold them at a huge profit to drug dealers and other criminals in New York. Of the traced guns used in crimes in New York and New Jersey in 1996, over three-quarters came from out of state. Four states with the loosest gun-control laws -- Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Texas -- accounted for fully a quarter of all guns seized in crimes nationwide in 1996 that were originally purchased outside the state where the crimes were committed. 
 A common-sense measure introduced last year by Mr. Schumer, and ignored by the Republican Congress, would limit a customer's gun purchases in any state to one a month. Tellingly, a 1995 study by Handgun Control Inc. showed a big drop in Virginia's share of the gun trafficking trade after it enacted a one-gun-a-month rule four years ago.
Together with two Democratic Senators, Robert Torricelli of New Jersey and Dick Dubin of Illinois, Representative Schumer has introduced another promising measure to stiffen the penalties for gun-runners, and to hold them responsible when a gun they smuggle is used to kill or seriously injure someone.
So far, there are no Republicans willing to co-sponsor the bill. Yet it should appeal even to many gun-control opponents, who argue that instead of controlling guns Congress should concentrate on punishing gun crime. By cracking down on gun-runners, the new proposal would do exactly that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; EDITORIALS; STATES (US); GUN CONTROL; SMUGGLING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS FIREARMS (91%); GUN CONTROL (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); 

PERSON: SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); TORRICELLI, ROBERT (SEN); DUBIN, DICK (SEN) CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



639 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: The Arrival Of Uncivil Aeronautics;
Airlines Must Grapple With Hostile Passengers

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
On a crowded flight from Chicago to Las Vegas, Nev., last year, Gail Scott, an America West Airlines flight attendant, was punched and pushed to the floor by a female passenger who became irate when told there were no extra sandwiches. While the passenger was sentenced to two years' probation and 200 hours of community service, Ms. Scott, an 11-year worker in the once-friendly skies, still carries psychological scars from the assault.
"It's gotten so you're almost afraid to ask passengers to raise their seat backs, or not smoke in the lavatories, for fear of what might happen," Ms. Scott said. 
 What might happen, increasingly, does happen. Airlines report a surge of disruptive behavior in recent months by passengers herded into cramped seats, lubricated with too many drinks and denied the freedom to smoke. They curse or spit on flight attendants, fling food trays and sometimes strike employees. On occasion, they even attack pilots.
While such violence is far more dangerous in the air because of the potential for causing crashes, it is even more common on the ground as travelers explode in rage over delayed flights or missing luggage. A passenger who missed a connection at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago two years ago hurled a suitcase at Karen Brennan, a customer service director for United Airlines -- who was eight months pregnant.
"He missed," said John J. Brennan, her husband. "So the only thing she could do, and did do, was bar him from flying on United from O'Hare." Mr. Brennan, also a United customer service director, has been cursed and threatened, and more than once has been grabbed by late-arriving passengers demanding that he "do something" to bring a departing airplane back to the gate.
"Airline passengers mirror society," said Jill Gallagher, the spokeswoman for the Association of Flight Attendants. "They're less willing to accept problems or delays, and many of them are aggressive, like so many drivers."
The problem has become so serious that the Air Line Pilots Association has organized a meeting today in Washington -- aptly titled the International Conference on Disruptive Airline Passengers -- to discuss ways of dealing with it.
The meeting also reflects a hardening of the industry's position toward unruly passengers. Until recently, with their planes flying half empty much of the time, "airlines hushed up these incidents," said Kathy Lord-Jones, safety coordinator of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, which represents attendants at American Airlines, a unit of AMR. "The thinking was that the revenue comes from passengers, and you don't want to seem as if you're trashing them." Now, with their planes jammed and profit margins widening, the airlines' attitude and tactics have changed.
Just this month, Trans World Airlines announced a zero-tolerance policy toward violent passengers. "Any employee who is subjected to assault while at work will receive the full support of the company," T.W.A. declared. "This will include in-house legal assistance, reasonable travel expenses and necessary paid absence for any criminal proceeding associated with the prosecution of the attacker." Almost all the major carriers have adopted similar-sounding positions.
Meanwhile, Northwest Airlines, which established a Violent Passenger Task Force this year, is hiring psychologists to help train flight attendants to deal with in-flight fractiousness.
The main thrust of the industry's efforts is defensive. Figuring they can cool passengers' passions quickly by raising the specter of prosecution, airlines are bombarding troublemakers with early warnings to shape up. One advisory -- called the "airline Miranda act" by flight attendants who have it on hand to read to disruptive passengers -- states tersely, "You must immediately cease if you wish to avoid prosecution and your removal from this aircraft at the next point of arrival."
American Airlines workers caution disruptive passengers orally first, then in writing. The printed message is more intimidating because it can be ostentatiously detached from forms for reporting misbehavior to both the police and the the Federal Aviation Administration.
Some airlines are training their pilots and flight attendants on the best way to apply handcuffs -- devices that have long been required under Federal law to be carried on all flights, but until recently were usually regarded as an afterthought.
When a customer aboard a United domestic flight last year slammed a lavatory door into a flight attendant, then proceeded to jump on her, other passengers subdued him while the flight crew applied handcuffs. "Once passengers like that are restrained," said Edmond Soliday, a longtime pilot who is also the vice president for safety and security for United Airlines, a unit of UAL, "we usually find two very healthy customers to sit near them."
The practice of keeping a pair of handcuffs handy grew out of the wave of airline hijackings in the late 1960's and 1970's. In those days, armed undercover Federal agents known as sky marshals were placed on random flights to deter the piracy, and that deterrent, combined with international treaties that requiredthe return of hijackers to face long sentences, lowered the number of air hijackings on United States carriers from a record 40 in 1969 to none since Feb. 10, 1991.
While nobody keeps count of all the rowdy incidents at airports and aboard planes, the evidence points to a sharp increase. Cases reported to the F.A.A. of passenger interference with crews during flights nearly doubled in two years, to 174 in 1995, the last full year for which statistics are available, from 96 in 1993. And those numbers do not include confrontations that were handled by local police or flight crews.
Few carriers keep statistics on abuse or assault, mostly because such incidents were rare until the last year or two. They are still few and far between, considering that United States airlines flew a record 581.2 million passengers last year.
But Delta Air Lines said in an internal bulletin to employees last September, "We have recently seen an increase in the number of incidents involving serious passenger misconduct toward crew members and other personnel, involving instances of assault and battery." And passenger misconduct at American Airlines gates and aboard its planes soared from 296 cases in 1994 to 882 in 1995; those statistics include cases of physical contact, which quadrupled to 140 in 1995. "Some of them were taken to the hospital, treated and released, but thankfully nobody was seriously injured," said Cliff O'Neal, communications coordinator for the Association of Professional Flight Attendants.
Jenny Poole, vice president for in-flight service at Delta, said that the airline's employees reported "about 100 cases a month" of verbal or physical assault. In some extreme cases, passengers drop all restraint and let their fists fly. When Ms. Scott of America West was attacked, her assailant not only pushed her to the floor but also grabbed her hair and pulled her against a seat. As the battered flight attendant managed to crawl away, the passenger hit the pilot on the cheek and dug her nails into a male flight attendant, cursing and screaming all the while.
These are among some of the more prominent recent assaults:
*Gary Lougee was charged with assaulting passengers and flight attendants on a US Airways flight between Savannah, Ga., and Charlotte, N.C., last summer. He was sentenced to 51 months in prison.
*A drunken woman punched an American Airlines flight attendant last June on a flight from Germany to Boston.
*James Mullay of Palm Coast, Fla., was sentenced to two years in prison last November by a judge in Manchester, England, after he became so drunk and violent on a Virgin Atlantic flight from Orlando, Fla., that passengers had to overpower him, breaking his nose.
*Salwa Qahanti, a Saudi princess, was fined $500 and sentenced to six months' probation in her country after she was accused of scratching and choking a flight attendant on a T.W.A. flight from Paris to Boston last year.
*Gerard Finneran of Greenwich, Conn., was fined $50,000 for defecating on a food cart and assaulting a attendant on a United flight from Buenos Aires to New York in 1995..
*A 28-year-old man from Geneseo, N.Y., punched a Northwest Airlines pilot in the face in Detroit Metropolitan Airport this January after the pilot asked him to wait for a gate agent to check his ticket. The flight, to White Plains, was delayed two hours while a replacement was found for the pilot. While Northwest took the highly unusual step of banning the assailant from all its aircraft, it did not release his name or press criminal charges because the assault occurred on the ground, not in flight, where it would have been a Federal offense.
The worst nightmare for airlines, of course, is an attack on a pilot that could end in disaster. Mr. Soliday of United said two such assaults on United pilots have taken place in the last year. "Even one is one too many," he said, adding that United is determined to prosecute anyone who attacks any of its employees.
Disruptive passengers come in both sexes, varied colors, many ages and are equally obnoxious in economy, business or first class. About one in every three has been drinking. And in most cases, their anger is directed at fellow passengers, not airline employees, for offenses ranging from blocking airplane aisles to hogging the overhead storage racks.
Sometimes, travelers' tirades take a comic turn. When a passenger at O'Hare airport was ranting about a delay, United's Mrs. Brennan walked up to see if she could calm him. Noticing her obvious pregnancy, the passenger said: "I can't holler at you. Get me somebody else!"
Ms. Scott of America West fantasizes about a solution to the problem of abusive passengers in flight. She pictures herself walking up to the flight deck and instructing the pilot: "The passenger in 17B is giving me a bad time. How about pushing the eject button for that seat."

GRAPHIC: Graph/Photos: "The Not So Friendly Skies"
Disruptive, sometimes violent behavior is rising, airlines say. In response, airlines are taking steps such as warning distruptive passengers with leaflets like the one above. (FPG) Here are some of the episodes that are prompting concern.
 
AIRLINE EMPLOYEES
 
One upset passenger hurled a suitcase at Karen Brennan, left, a customer service director for United Airlines at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, who was eight months pregnant at the time. Her husband, John, also a United service director, as been cursed and threatened. (Lloyd Degrane for The New York Times)
 
Gail Scott, America West Airlines flight attendant, was punched by a female passenger who became upset because there were no extra sandwiches. The passenger also assaulted the pilot. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)
 
THE PASSENGERS
 
A Continental Airlines flight attendant is suing Wade Boggs, Yankees third baseman, accusing him of threatening and cursing her last year on a charter flight from Newark to Milwaukee. Mr. Boggs has apologized and offered to make a donation to a charity of her choice, according to Alan L. Nero, his agent. The offer has not been accepted. (Associated Press)
 
Salwa Qahanti, a Saudi princess, was fined $500 and sentenced to six months' probation after she was accused of scratching and choking a flight attendant on a T.W.A. flight from Paris to Boston last year. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (66%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (66%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; VIOLENCE; ASSAULTS; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; PILOTS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) AIRLINES (94%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); SENTENCING (72%); PROBATION (72%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (72%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



640 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rally as Data Ease Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
Investors, jubilant over reports that reduced fears of inflation, went on a buying spree yesterday, causing sharp rallies in the stock and bond markets.
The Dow Jones industrial average surged 179.01 points, or 2.64 percent, to 6,962.03. The rally -- the second-largest point gain in its history and the best in percentage terms in more than five years -- lifted the Dow near the 7,000-point level for the first time since mid-March. 
 Stocks took their cue largely from the bond market, which rose after the Labor Department's Employment Cost Index, a widely followed measure of wage, salary and benefit costs, showed an increase that was smaller than expected. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond jumped 1 17/32 points, pushing its yield -- a benchmark for consumer and corporate interest rates -- down to 6.98 percent, from 7.11 percent on Monday. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite directions.
"We got what we wanted," said Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley & Company. "We got indications the economy wasn't as strong as we had perceived. So the bond market took off and the stock market followed."
Broader stock indexes also had impressive gains in heavy trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 21.09 points, or 2.73 percent, to 794.05. And the Nasdaq composite index, bolstered by strong demand for technology stocks, rose 25.60 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,242.63. On the New York Stock Exchange, advancers outpaced decliners by an almost 4-to-1 margin on volume of 551.3 million shares.
Investors were also encouraged by a report on durable goods orders, which indicated that the economy might be moderating. While the two reports yesterday did not erase investor worries about inflation and higher interest rates, analysts said that the figures did relieve some concerns that the economy was accelerating too fast, a circumstance that could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates for a second time this year.
"It was a very powerful rally because the market now perceives the Fed might not tighten," said David Shulman, the bearish chief equity strategist at Salomon Brothers. "But the week is still young. There are a lot more numbers coming."
Indeed, today the Commerce Department is expected to release preliminary gross domestic product figures showing how fast the economy grew in the first quarter and indicating whether there were any signs of inflationary pressure.
Still, the market's recent gains have been tremendous, reminiscent of the surge late last year that carried over into January and February and helped push the Dow up past 7,000 points for the first time.
That surge was interrupted by the biggest downturn in more than six years, when the Dow fell 9.8 percent in the month following March 11, hitting 6,391.69 on April 11. But since then, in just 12 trading sessions, the Dow has recovered a large part of that loss, soaring 570 points, or 8.9 percent. At yesterday's close, the index was up 8 percent on the year.
In fact, this was the third consecutive Tuesday session this month that the Dow set its second-largest point gain. On April 15, it advanced 135.26 points, and just a week ago it rose 173.38 points.
The biggest point gain was on Oct. 21, 1987, when the Dow, two days after plummeting 508 points, rose 186.84 points. Yesterday's percentage gain was the biggest since Dec. 23, 1991, when it rose 3 percent, or 88.10 points.
Of the Dow's 30 component stocks, 26 gained yesterday, led by shares of I.B.M., which gained 8 points to 158 3/8. I.B.M. shares have gained 16 since the company posted better-than-expected earnings last week for its first quarter. Yesterday's gains came after I.B.M. said it had raised its dividend 14 percent, authorized a $3.5 billion stock-repurchase plan and won shareholder approval for a 2-for-1 stock split.
Travelers Group shares rose 4 3/4 to 55; Du Pont was up 4 3/8, to 107, and General Electric rose 3 3/8, to 110 5/8.
Technology stocks fared even better. The technology-heavy Nasdaq 100 gained 3.2 percent yesterday. That index was led by shares of Intel, up 3 5/8, to 150; Microsoft, up 4 1/8, to 119, and Cisco Systems, the day's most actively traded issue, which rose 3 1/2, to 50.
Even the Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks -- which has badly trailed the larger market so far this year -- had sizable gains yesterday. The index rose 4.48 points, or 1.33 percent, to 340.58 -- its best performance since Dec. 9, when it rose 1.4 percent.
Analysts said that yesterday's rally was aided, in part, by a high degree of bearish sentiment in the market, much of which was attributed to the market's recent volatility.
Because investors were pessimistic about stocks, any good news, analysts said, was more likely to set off a huge rally. And yesterday it did.
Yet while Mr. Wien continues to believe that 1997 "is going to be the worst year since 1990," with the market closing down at a level less than where it began the year, other analysts say yesterday's gains were a welcome sign that it may have already reached its low for the year.
"The mood of the market has changed dramatically," said Alfred Goldman, director of market analysis at A. G. Edwards. "The bears have had their turn. Now, this may not be a perfect rally but it's a lot better than a stick in the eye."

ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, where for the third consecutive Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average set the record for its second-biggest-point gain. The average rose 179.01. (Associated Press) (pg. D10)
 
Tables: "The Dow's Top 10" lists the biggest point-gain sessions for the Dow Industrials and the percentage gain from the previous day. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) (pg. D1); "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (68%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



641 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Markets Surge As Labor Costs Stay in Check

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The stock market rocketed yesterday to its greatest gain in more than five years because a key economic indicator, measuring labor costs, showed no sign of inflation despite a robust economy and many reports that skilled workers are increasingly hard to find.
Nothing in the Employment Cost Index, the broadest measure of what employers pay for workers, suggested that rising labor costs might soon force companies to raise their prices. Wages did rise modestly, but not across the board. And outlays for benefits like health insurance and pensions were almost unchanged. 
 The mild inflation report, showing a rise in employment costs of just six-tenths of 1 percent for the first quarter, took some of the steam out of the view on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve would soon feel compelled to raise interest rates again to slow the economy.
In the bond market, interest rates fell sharply, and stock prices, which thrive on expectations of lower interest rates, shot up. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 179 points, or 2.64 percent, the largest percentage increase since Dec. 23, 1991, when it soared 3 percent. [Page D1.]
"There is no question this is a better labor cost report than we had anticipated," said Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
For the Clinton Administration, the modest labor cost increase was unthreatening to the economy, easing off as it did from a rise of eight-tenths of a percent in the fourth quarter. "I don't see any inflationary pressure in this report," said Janet L. Yellen, head of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
The Employment Cost Index, in effect, contradicted a different measure of labor costs that had been rising rather sharply each month since November. That measure -- average hourly earnings for production workers below the rank of supervisor -- caught the attention of Wall Street and set off alarm bells after it rose in March at an annual rate of 4 percent. The expectation was that the broader cost index, covering all workers, would finally reflect the sharply rising hourly wage measure.
Instead, the index rose only 2.9 percent for the 12 months through March, unchanged from last year's fourth quarter, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics reported yesterday. The annual rate compared with a rise of 2.8 percent in the Consumer Price Index, the best-known inflation measure, for the same period. Wages were up at an annual rate of 3.3 percent, roughly the level that prevailed through 1996. But benefit costs rose 2 percent over the last 12 months, one of the smallest increases in this decade, mostly because of so little movement in employer outlays for health insurance.
Many Wall Street analysts had argued that employers had run out of ways to hold down health care costs, and the Employment Cost Index for the first quarter, issued yesterday, would reflect the changing circumstance. But it did not. A report issued by the General Accounting Office in February suggested that companies were still cutting back family coverage while the percent of workers covered by company plans had continued to decline.
"If your company paid $1,000 a year ago for your health insurance," said Wayne Shelly, head of the division at the Bureau of Labor Statistics that compiles the Employment Cost Index, "today it is paying $1,002."
The Employment Cost Index and some other broad measures of wage increases are displaying a distinctive pattern in this seventh year of the recovery. Rather than increases across the board -- the usual pattern as unemployment fell and labor markets tightened in most previous expansions -- the biggest raises are coming at either end of the pay spectrum, with much less for the middle.
The main beneficiaries in recent months, the data suggest, have been executives and other high-end workers and also the lowest-paid workers. The latter appears to reflect the 50-cents-an-hour increase in the minimum wage last October, to $4.75, as well as a rise in commission payments for salespeople.
"If you are going to have an inflationary situation brought on by labor costs," said Alan Krueger, a Princeton labor economist and a former chief economist at the Labor Department, "you are going to have to have wages rising for middle-income people and not just at the tails."
Still, Wall Street's preoccupation with inflation could be rekindled before the week is out. Today, the Commerce Department is scheduled to issue its first report on economic growth for the first quarter. Analysts widely expect growth in the nation's gross domestic product, the total output of goods and services, to exceed 4 percent, at an annual rate, which many forecasters consider too strong to be sustained without contributing to higher inflation. And on Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will report on new job creation and unemployment for April, as well as the latest monthly figure for average hourly pay.
"What we might do," Mr. McKelvey, the Goldman, Sachs economist, said, "is focus the inflation issue more sharply on what happens to economic growth rather than labor costs."
For Mr. Krueger and some other labor economists, the Employment Cost Index and the median weekly wages for full-time workers -- $504 in the first quarter, up 3 percent in 12 months -- are better indicators of what is happening to wages and who is getting raises than the more popular and more rapidly rising average hourly wage for production workers. The average hourly wage statistic, they say, is distorted by overtime pay, which can drive the average higher, and by problems with the 400,000 companies surveyed to gather this statistic.
The surveys are done by each state government and the companies they sample are not fully representative. The Labor Department, as a result, is considering changes in the way this survey is carried out.
Productivity, the measure of how much each worker produces, also plays a role in determining when rising labor costs might force companies to raise prices. If inflation is rising at, say, 2.5 percent a year, and productivity or output is going up at 1 percent a year, as it has been in recent years, then the Employment Cost Index has to rise by more than 3.5 percent a year before employers find themselves under pressure to seek ever larger price increases. So far, it is well short of that level.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Price of Help" shows perecentage change from the prior qaurter in the components of the Employment Cost Index, which measures the amount employers pay for each hour of work by employees, from 1985 to 1995. (Source: Haver Analytics)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; EMPLOYMENT COST INDEX (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



642 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Labor Cost Index Shows Benign Inflation
The Employment Cost Index for the first quarter showed no sign of inflation despite a robust economy and indications that skilled workers have grown increasingly hard to find.
The report sent the stock market rocketing to its greatest gain in more than five years. The data took some of the steam out of the view on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve would feel compelled to raise interest rates repeatedly to slow the economy. [Page A1.]
 
There were other signs that inflation may not be a problem. Orders to factories for durable goods fell in March, a sign that the economy may be losing some of the momentum that caused the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates last month. And the Conference Board said Americans' confidence in the economy fell more than expected this month. [D4.] 

The reports sent yields in the Treasury market plunging to their lowest levels in a month. The benchmark 30-year bond yield fell to 6.98 percent from 7.11 percent. [D20.]
 
Pepsi Profit Beats Forecasts
Pepsico reported higher-than-expected earnings, benefiting from surging profits in its Frito-Lay snack business and strength in its domestic beverage business. [D2.]
 
A Type of Discrimination Is Barred
The E.E.O.C. told employers that under the Americans With Disabilities Act, they may not discriminate against qualified workers with mental illness, may not ask applicants whether they have a history of mental illness and must take reasonable steps to accommodate employees with psychiatric or emotional problems. [A1.]
 
Bondholders Put Forth Marvel Plan
Bondholders led by Carl C. Icahn proposed a bankruptcy restructuring plan for Marvel Entertainment. The company's trading card businesses would be given to bank lenders in partial satisfaction of the money owed to them. The proposal came after Marvel suggested its own plan, which would do more for the banks but leave bondholders with little. [D4.]
 
Another Warning on Indonesian Site
Freeport-McMoran Copper and Gold's chief executive, James R. Moffett, emphasized that the company would pull out of developing what had been billed as the century's richest gold strike, in Indonesia, unless further tests yielded enough of the metal. Preliminary tests yielded only insignificant amounts, the company, and its partner, Bre-X, said last month. [D2.]
 
I.B.M. Moves Lift the Stock
I.B.M. announced a 14 percent increase in its dividend, a share buyback and the approval of a stock split, sending its stock soaring. [D4.]
 
Boeing in Satellite Deal
Teledesic, a communications company mostly owned by the billionaires William H. Gates and Craig McCaw, picked Boeing to build and deploy a $9 billion satellite network. Boeing will also invest up to $100 million in Teledesic, which plans to launch low-orbiting satellites to form an "Internet in the sky." [D21.]
 
Brazilian Privatization in Doubt
The long-awaited privatization of Vale do Rio Doce, the Brazilian state-owned mining giant, was thrown into doubt in the face of legal and popular opposition. [A3.]
 
Research Center to Pursue Drugs
Three companies and an academic center said they were forming a research consortium to take information now pouring in from human genome research and use it to identify possible new drugs and treatments. [D8.]
 
Ellen Comes Out. Which Ads Stay?
Decisions by advertisers on tonight's episode of "Ellen," in which the main character announces on the ABC comedy that she is a lesbian, may get as much attention as the show's story line. Advertising. [D8.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,962.03, up 179.01
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.98%, down 0.13
The Dollar -- 126.87 yen, down 0.11
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Gross Domestic Product
 First-quarter figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +4.2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (81%); BAB (BRU) (81%); BA (NYSE) (81%); FCX (NYSE) (64%); PEP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (81%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (64%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (64%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (64%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (64%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (64%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (64%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (64%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (64%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (64%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (64%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (64%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (81%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (64%); PEPSICO INC (55%); FRITO-LAY INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); STOCK SPLITS (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%); APPROVALS (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (63%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (50%); 

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (54%); BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



643 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
'Pomp and Circumstance' Marks British Campaign
Prime Minister John Major of Britain sought to rally his Conservative Party with a flurry of campaigning and mass singings of "Pomp and Circumstance." The Labor party, whose candidate, Tony Blair, is widely expected to win tomorrow's election, concentrated on swing districts. A1 

Refugees Surface in Zaire
Rwandan refugees in central Zaire said they had been attacked by local villagers and rebel troops who forced them to flee into the forest. The rebel leader, Laurent Kabila, assured aid workers that they could truck food and medicine to the refugees, but commanders near Kisangani impeded United Nations efforts to start an airlift immediately. A1
 
Bill Richardson, the American delegate to the United Nations, spoke with President Mobutu Sese Seko in Kinshasa and went on to meet with Mr. Kabila in Lubumbashi. Little progress toward any political agreement was reported, but Mr. Richardson said he had made some breakthroughs with Mr. Kabila on the treatment of refugees. A14
 
Mexico Expels 3 Advocates
Three human rights advocates were expelled from Mexico, where the ruling party introduced a bill in Congress to outlaw foreign financial support for independent election observers. Critics of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party said the moves were efforts to suppress political opponents before nationwide elections scheduled for July 6 that are expected to be the most competitive in decades. A3
 
Privatization Stalled in Brazil
The sale of a Brazilian state-owned mining company was blocked at the last minute by a Sao Paolo judge who cited "flagrant irregularities." Thousands of demonstrators demanded a referendum on the company's fate. The Government had expected to raise $5 billion by selling 45 percent of the voting shares of the company, Vale do Rio Doce. A3
 
Europe Weakens Links to Iran
The 15-nation European Union agreed to send its ambassadors back to Teheran but resolved to halt bilateral ministerial visits with Iran, to deny or cancel visas for Iranians with intelligence or security posts and to maintain its ban on arms sales to Iran. The United States welcomed the sanctions, but the Europeans defended a certain amount of "dialogue" and were careful not to sever their trading ties to Iran. A5
 
Congress Worries China
The director general of the World Trade Organization, Renato Ruggiero, said China's leaders were worried that Congress would block its entry into the World Trade Organization for political reasons. Before they make any market-opening concessions, he added, the Chinese want assurances that the growing anti-China mood in Congress will not lead the United States to exercise its de facto veto over China's membership. A13
 
NATIONAL A16-19, D22
 
Mentally Ill Workers Win Protection From U.S.
Employers may not discriminate against qualified workers with mental illnesses, may not ask job applicants if they have a history of mental illness and must take reasonable steps to accommodate employees with psychiatric or emotional problems, the Government said. It was the first detailed explanation of how the Americans With Disabilities Act applies to mental illness. A1
 
Drill Sergeant Guilty of Rape
A military jury convicted a former drill sergeant of raping six women, all trainees who were under his command. Lawyers for the sergeant, Delmar G. Simpson, argued that the women had willingly had sex with him. But the jury apparently accepted the prosecutors' argument that Sergeant Simpson had abused his power over the trainees to the point that it violated the military's broad definition of rape. A1
 
Plan for Bombing Described
The wife of a close friend of Timothy J. McVeigh told jurors that Mr. McVeigh described his plot to bomb the Oklahoma City Federal building to her in October 1994, six months before the bombing. The witness, Lori Fortier, said Mr. McVeigh had picked Oklahoma City because he thought some Federal agents involved in the Branch Davidian case in Waco, Tex., worked there. A1
 
Texans Demand Action in Siege
The authorities said they were hopeful of arranging a peaceful surrender by the militant Texas group that took two hostages three days ago. But many of the 80 neighbors forced from their homes by the standoff angrily demanded that the state move against the group. A16
 
A Finale for Volunteerism
Gen. Colin L. Powell and Hillary Rodham Clinton closed out the Presidents' Summit for America's Future by urging delegates to fulfill the promises made during the last three days to help troubled children around the country. The delegates said they had been energized by the three-day volunteerism meeting, which also drew President Clinton and his predecessors George Bush, Jimmy Carter and Gerald R. Ford. A16
 
Budget Deal Seen Near
Both sides in the negotiations over the Federal budget said a compromise was possible, but by no means certain, within days. Officials said President Clinton was ready to intervene to help close a deal. D22
 
Gambling Panel Is Complete
President Clinton made his three appointments to a nine-member commission charged with examining the social and economic effects of gambling. One of his appointees, William A. Bible, the chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, supports legalized gambling, while the other two, the White House said, lean against it. Congress has already chosen the other six members; gambling skeptics appear to have a slight edge. A19
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Cut in Helicopter Flights Over Noise and Safety
Officials said the number of helicopter flights in New York City would be sharply scaled back because of growing complaints about noise and safety. One heliport will be closed and an operator that had long been accused of violating city regulations will be evicted from another. B1
 
Girl Dead in Boys' Locker Room
A sophomore sprinter on the girls' track team of a rural New Jersey high school track was found dead in the shower area of the boys' locker room with a stab wound in her neck. The police arrested a 16-year-old fellow student and charged him with killing the girl, Nielsa Mason. B1
 
New Limits on Tobacco Ads
The City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, proposed banning cigarette advertising on billboards, store windows and other sites within 1,000 feet of schools. Mayor Giuliani said he supported the idea. Business owners objected. B3
 
Sound Bites With Food Bites
Manhattan's newest theme restaurant opens Monday: Television City, a Rockefeller Center spot with 130 television sets and $1 million in production equipment, including a small broadcast studio where diners can deliver news, recite the weather or host their own talk show. B6
 
EDUCATION B8
 
SPORTS B10-15
 
LIVING C1-9
 
Act 2 for Le Cirque
Le Cirque, the renowned restaurant, reopened three days early, in a new location and with a new vision. On its first day of business, the rechristened Le Cirque 2000 served more than 120 lunches, 228 dinners and hors d'oeuvres to 150 people, along with 247 bottles of wine. C1
 
HEALTH C10
 
AIDS Vaccine Works in Chimps
Scientists said a novel vaccine had protected two chimpanzees from the AIDS virus. The vaccine is based on DNA, unlike most vaccines, which use dead or weakened viruses. Tests on humans are still incomplete. A18
 
Charging for Phone Calls
More than two-thirds of doctors want to be able to charge patients for telephone consultations, a survey found. C10
 
ARTS C11-18
 
A Major Modern Art Auction
Christie's announced the sale of a collection of 20th-century masterpieces, including some of the finest examples of works by Picasso, Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg and Frank Stella. C11
 
Library of Congress Restored
The Thomas Jefferson Building, the main Library of Congress building on Capitol Hill, reopens tomorrow after an $81 million restoration. C11
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-21
 
Inflation Report Fuels Stocks
A key economic indicator measuring labor costs showed no sign of inflation despite a robust economy and many reports that skilled workers are increasingly hard to find. That sent stocks to their greatest gains in more than five years. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
Mike Royko
The voice of Chicago's little guys and working stiffs, he wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper column that specialized in skewering the city's legendarily corrupt politicians. He was 64. B9
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: A chance to shrink the Pentagon, deadly commerce, common sense in testing, gender equity in college sports.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd, William Safire.
 
Chronicle B6
 
Crossword C14
 
Weather B16

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); RWANDA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAN (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); RWANDA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAN (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (87%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); DISABLED WORKERS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); ELECTION MONITORING (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (78%); TONY BLAIR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



644 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Plans To Reduce Copter Flights

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Responding to a cascade of complaints about noise and safety, the Giuliani administration said yesterday that it would scale back the number of helicopter flights in New York City by closing one heliport and evicting from another heliport a company that has long stirred the ire of neighborhood groups.
Senior administration officials said they would shut the heliport at 60th Street and the East River, leaving the city with three heliports and reducing the number of helicopter flights by 30 to 40 percent. There were 154,000 helicopter takeoffs and landings in the city last year, officials said. 
 The effort by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to clamp down on helicopter traffic comes less than three weeks after a helicopter plunged into the East River shortly after lifting off from the 60th Street heliport, killing one man and injuring three others.
Officials said yesterday that they had been working on the plan before the crash, and they noted that the accident appeared unrelated to congestion. Federal investigators say they believe that the accident occurred when a three-foot section of the aircraft's tail broke off.
But the administration officials acknowledged that the crash had raised new questions for many residents about the safety of helicopters flying in urban areas, giving added urgency to the plan. Helicopters have long roused strong passions among neighborhood groups and community boards in Manhattan -- protests that the Mayor is now addressing in an election year.
"Many New York City residents have concerns about noise levels and public safety with regard to helicopters in the city," Mr. Giuliani said in a statement. "I take these matters very seriously."
The Mayor in recent weeks has said that he wants to scale back helicopters flights, while emphasizing that it wasunfeasible and economically imprudent to end the flights altogether.
Helicopters were once considered a wondrous innovation for places like New York City, a convenient way to bypass clotted street traffic. But as the helicopter industry has grown over the decades, so has the grumbling about noise and safety.
Though residents have stepped up their complaints, the number of flights has actually dropped slightly since 1990, when the figure was 164,800, officials said.
Under the Mayor's plan, the administration would evict National Helicopter, the operator at the East 34th Street heliport in Manhattan. It would then move the operator at the 60th Street heliport, Johnson Controls, to 34th Street and close the 60th Street site.
There were about 23,000 flights last year at the 60th Street heliport, and 54,000 at the 34th Street heliport, officials said.
Officials said that National Helicopter focused on tourist flights, which tend to create more problems than corporate flights, which are the speciality of Johnson Controls. Tourist aircraft often zigzag over residential neighborhoods, while corporate aircraft tend to fly in a straight path.
Executives at National Helicopter declined to comment last night, so it was unclear whether they would go to court to block the eviction. But the company has a history of successfully suing the city; if it goes to court, it may delay the plan for months.
City officials and neighborhood groups have had a contentious relationship with National Helicopter for years. The company currently owes the city more than $700,000 in back rent, said Charles Millard, president of the Economic Development Corporation, the city agency that runs the heliport.
The Mayor and the City Council had approved regulations to reduce helicopter traffic at the 34th Street heliport by nearly 50 percent and to ban weekend flights, but National Helicopter sued in Federal District Court, and a judge in January sided mostly with the company. The judge said the city could not regulate the airspace over the city, which was the purview of the Federal Government. As a result, at least two members of Congress from Manhattan, Carolyn B. Maloney and Jerrold L. Nadler, both Democrats, are asking the Federal Aviation Administration to set stricter regulations on helicopter traffic over the city.
Another lawmaker from Manhattan, Councilman Andrew S. Eristoff, a Republican, said yesterday that he would have preferred that the city shut the 34th Street heliport. But he said he was optimistic that the Mayor's plan would reduce noise. "If we got rid of tourist flights," Mr. Eristoff said, "and we were left with a greatly reduced number of flights, that would mean a lot less impact on the surrounding community, and obviously we would welcome that."
But some leaders of community boards and neighborhoods groups were more critical.
William Oddo, chairman of the transportation committee for Community Board 6, said he was puzzled by the Mayor's plan.
"Why close the 60th Street heliport when the 34th Street heliport is in a residential district and is the real bone of contention?" he asked. "What's he saying? One accident and he closes down 60th Street and keeps 34th Street open, even though it's had many more accidents?"
Joy Held, an Upper East Side resident who has organized the Helicopter Noise Coalition of New York City, which has members in Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn, said the Mayor was "grandstanding."
"He appears to be doing something when he actually is not," she said. "He's closing down one heliport, keeping three heliports, and opening a fourth megaheliport that will actually increase the amount of helicopter traffic."
Earlier this year, the city began seeking proposals for operators at a new heliport scheduled to be built as early as next year on the Hudson River at West 35th Street.
It is intended to replace the outmoded West 30th Street heliport, and community groups point out that the new heliport, which at 90,000 square feet will be triple the size of the 30th Street site, will add substantially to helicopter traffic.

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan showing locations of the four Manhattan heliports: Sites of the four Manhattan heliports, one of which is to be closed. (pg. B3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JCI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); SIC3822 AUTOMATIC CONTROLS FOR REGULATING RESIDENTIAL & COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENTS & APPLIANCES (51%); SIC2531 PUBLIC BUILDING & RELATED FURNITURE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HELICOPTER JOHNSON CONTROLS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HELICOPTER

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; NOISE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) HELICOPTERS (98%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997



645 of 645 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Yanks Not Champions At Box Office in Bronx

BYLINE: By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
If the head of General Motors spent several years telling the car-buying public that his automobiles were dangerous to drive, most people would probably would not buy Buicks and Pontiacs and Oldsmobiles and Chevrolets. Why, then, should people, especially the Yankees, be surprised when the baseball-buying public stays away from Yankee Stadium?
Fans have heard for years how dangerous the Bronx is. Yankee Stadium is in the Bronx. The man with the biggest megaphone has been none other than the owner of the Yankees, George Steinbrenner, who has done more to denigrate the Bronx than the 1981 film "Fort Apache, the Bronx." 
 "He's modified that," a police officer said yesterday, discussing Steinbrenner's oft-repeated view that Yankee Stadium is a dangerous place. "He said it's the perception."
So who created the perception?
The Yankees played the Seattle Mariners in the Bronx last night, the second of a three-game series between the teams that created a rivalry with their scintillating playoff series in 1995. The attendance for Monday night's game was 20,054. Last night's attendance was 21,955, off an advance sale of 16,100, meaning that fewer than 6,000 fans bought tickets yesterday on the heels of the Yankees' 6-5 comeback victory Monday. Some rivalry.
The Yankees issued a news release last Sunday stating that their season attendance ranked sixth in the American League and last among the eight teams that were in last October's playoffs. The release was a thinly veiled step, the latest, in Steinbrenner's effort to get a new stadium somewhere other than the dangerous Bronx.
How dangerous actually is the Bronx? "It's the safest place in the city on game days," a member of the Yankee Stadium police detail said before last night's game.
It's so safe, the detail couldn't remember the last time it had a mugging or a robbery in the hours before, during or immediately after a game. Occasionally, a fan has returned to his car, parked foolishly on the street, and found that "criminal mischief" has been perpetrated on it.
For routine games, the stadium detail consists of 65 officers, 5 sergeants and 1 lieutenant. Patrolling in radio cars and on bicycles, scooters and foot, they saturate the area from 165th Street at River Avenue south to 149th Street and west to the Harlem River.
On game days, a New Yorker is safer there than on 42d Street, even the new 42d Street. But Steinbrenner doesn't want fans to know that fact of city life because he doesn't want them coming to his team's games and undermining his plans to extract a new stadium from the city in a prettier part of the city.
As the Yankees' stadium lease nears expiration -- 2002 -- the city has talked, though not recently, of spending more than $1 billion for a park on Manhattan's West Side. City residents would sooner lynch the politicians who would push such a plan than allow that kind of spending.
New Jersey has long been held out as an alternative, a large bargaining chip that Steinbrenner has subtly used when he wants to panic the New York politicians. But New Jersey is an alternative no longer, and if New York city and state officials don't realize that development, it's about time they did.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey has consistently refused to be seen as trying to lure the Yankees. For a time, though, the head of her state's sports authority conducted a back-channel operation aimed at seducing the Yankees into joining the Giants and the Jets.
That operation ended abruptly, however, with the resignation last year of Michael Francis and his indictment in New Jersey earlier this year on eight counts of such charges as official misconduct, attempted theft by extortion, misconduct by a corporate official, false swearing, tampering with public records or information and tampering with witnesses. No one has picked up Francis' stadium plans and promised to run with them, and it doesn't appear that anyone plans to. In other words, Steinbrenner has lost the biggest weapon in his effort to push New York officials into making an economic blunder.
Maybe the owner would be better off trying to lure fans to the Bronx. Baseball officials, for instance, suggested to Steinbrenner long ago that the Yankees run buses from midtown Manhattan to the stadium, offering a palatable mode of transportation for fans who won't ride subways. But he dismissed the idea, thinking perhaps that it could work against his real desire.
More fans should be watching the Yankees play in person. They are, after all, the reigning World Series champions, and they are a legitimate contender again, games like last night's 7-5 loss notwithstanding.
The fans who went to Yankee Stadium saw Tino Martinez break the major league record for runs batted in for April as he raised his total to 33. They also saw Yankee pitchers retire Ken Griffey Jr. all five times he batted, a feat worth witnessing. Unfortunately for them, they also saw Alex Rodriguez, a New York native, ignite the Mariners' winning five-run outburst in the eighth inning with a single and a stolen base. And they saw Russ Davis, not long ago a Yankee rookie, drive in four runs.
The point is, if the fans disregard the scare tactics, they can see interesting baseball, win or lose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (88%); TICKET SALES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY GEORGE STEINBRENNER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997

 
