

601 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Now, Spitzer Is Warming To Wall St.

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON; Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As attorney general of New York, Eliot Spitzer made a name for himself as a tough cop willing to take on deep-pocketed industries like Wall Street and insurance. Now, as governor, he may be making life a little easier for them in an effort to keep financial services in New York competitive in the global market. 
 Yesterday, Mr. Spitzer signed an executive order creating the New York State Commission to Modernize the Regulation of Financial Services, a panel focused on streamlining regulation in an industry increasingly dominated by integrated financial service firms offering similar products and taking similar risks. 
The financial services industry is the biggest revenue generator for the state, and Mr. Spitzer is sure to want to avoid any significant loss of market share as governor. To his critics, who assailed his tactics as attorney general as just the kind of activity that scares off business, the plan is a new direction for Mr. Spitzer.
 The governor's initiative follows studies -- including one commissioned by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and conducted by the consulting firm McKinsey & Company -- that argued that the United States and New York City were at risk of losing the lead as a global financial hub to London and other centers. 
 The reports cited the regulatory burden of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, excessive litigation and overlapping regulators among other factors. 
 While those reports focused on the patchwork of federal and state regulation, Mr. Spitzer's panel is focused, at least initially, on trying to rationalize outdated state regulations. 
 Currently four departments are responsible for regulating financial services in New York: the insurance department, the department of state, the banking department and the attorney general's office. 
 The structure was created at a time when the industry was more fragmented. For decades, the Depression-era Glass-Steagall Act prevented financial service firms from participating in the securities business and that created separate regulatory regimes. But over the last decade, changes in the law and a wave of mergers have led different financial services businesses to converge.
 ''It no longer makes sense to regulate each of the separate areas as an independent business endeavor,'' Mr. Spitzer said at a news conference yesterday. ''If we can come up with a structure that is going to be more coherent and makes us more competitive, that is critically important.''
 The New York State insurance superintendent, Eric R. Dinallo, will be chairman of the commission, whose members will come from industry, government and consumer groups, including lawyers with expertise in financial services. The plan to create the commission was reported yesterday by The Financial Times. 
 According to Mr. Dinallo, the group will produce a report at the end of June 2008, but will seek to put into effect certain regulatory or statutory changes before that, including potentially establishing a so-called principles-based framework for insurance regulation. Such a system could mirror the system used in Britain, where companies are expected to follow certain principles, like not defrauding customers, rather than a laundry list of rules. 
 Critics of principles-based regulation say it results in oversight that is too lax.
 Mr. Dinallo disagreed. ''I don't think that principles-based regulation is a lesser form of consumer or investor protection because I think that it engages companies at a much higher management level,'' he said. ''You get less of an approach of looking for loopholes and more of an approach of doing the right thing.''
 Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, one of the consumer groups that will be participating, was skeptical, but she said she was willing to see what the panel comes up with. 
 ''I have a knee-jerk reaction against principles-based regulation because it is almost always used by people trying to minimize regulation,'' she said. ''But principles-based regulation applied correctly and backed by good enforcement can be a good thing.''
 Members of the panel will be appointed by the governor. They include Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs; Charles O. Prince III, chairman and chief executive of Citigroup; Stephen M. Cutler, a former director of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission and now general counsel at JPMorgan Chase.
 Also, Martin J. Sullivan, chief executive of the American International Group; Herbert M. Allison, chairman and chief executive of TIAA-CREF; Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America; John W. Moscow, a partner at Baker Hostetler and the former head of white-collar crime in the Manhattan district attorney's office; Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; and Mindy Bockstein, chairwoman and executive director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board.
 Government officials include the superintendent of banking, the secretary of state and the executive deputy attorney general for economic justice. 
 Mr. Dinallo, who worked in the investor protection bureau during Mr. Spitzer's tenure as attorney general, said the effort to rationalize regulation did not contradict past actions prosecuting wrongdoing on Wall Street. 
 ''There is a line between enforcement and day-in and day-out regulation,'' Mr. Dinallo said. ''At the attorney general's office, we were not regulators, we were enforcement officials.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSURANCE (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING LAW (76%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); LITIGATION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: AMTRUST FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (90%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%)

TICKER: AFSI (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



602 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13 Sunni Arabs Driving Kurds From Big City, Officials Say Conflict between Arabs and Kurds is intensifying in Mosul, adding another dimension to Iraq's civil war: Sunni Arab militants, reinforced by insurgents fleeing the new security plan in Baghdad, are trying to rid Mosul of its Kurdish population through violence and intimidation, Kurdish officials said. A1 Gunmen wearing police commando uniforms abducted five British civilians from a Finance Ministry complex, British officials said, seizing a business consultant and his four bodyguards. A10 U.S. Interrogations Outdated A group of experts commissioned to advise American intelligence agencies on interrogation methods argue that the techniques used since the 2001 terrorist attacks, a hodge-podge that dates to the 1950s or are modeled on old Soviet practices, are outmoded and unreliable. A1 Diplomat to Head World Bank President Bush has chosen Robert B. Zoellick, a senior diplomat and trade envoy who became a top executive at Goldman Sachs last year, to lead the World Bank and heal the bitter rifts left by the ouster of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the administration said. 
 A1 Verdict for Chinese Official China sentenced the former head of its top food and drug safety agency to death for corruption and accepting bribes, an unusually harsh sentence that comes on the heels of a series of scandals involving tainted food and phony drugs in China. A7 NATIONAL A14-18 Supreme Court Restricts Lawsuits on Pay Disparity A Supreme Court decision closed off a legal option for many employees paid less than co-workers as a result of discrimination based on race, sex, religion or national origin. A1 Bush Takes On Critics of Bill President Bush took on parts of his conservative base by accusing opponents of his proposed immigration measure of fear mongering to defeat its passage in Congress. A16 The federal agency that handles immigration visas confirmed that it would raise its fees by an average of 66 percent starting July 30, finalizing a fee increase first proposed in January and drawing a new outcry from immigration lawyers and advocacy groups. A16 Airline Tuberculosis Inquiry Federal and international officials are tracking down passengers and crew members on two trans-Atlantic flights earlier this month who may have been exposed to a man infected with an exceptionally dangerous form of tuberculosis. A14 Texas Lawmakers Commended Bidding farewell to a raucous legislative session, Gov. Rick Perry commended Texas lawmakers for passing a last-minute budget. A17 Woman Kills 4 Daughters A woman who was struggling with depression apparently hanged her four young daughters in their North Texas mobile home before hanging herself, the authorities said. A14 NEW YORK/REGION B1-7 Immigration Bill Could Alter City in Profound Ways Few places in the United States could be more deeply affected by the proposed overhaul of legal immigration regulations than New York City, say scholars and demographers. Compared with immigrants in other parts of the country, more of the city's newcomers gain entry through a family visa program that the bill would restrict or abolish. B1 Housing Agency Shake-Up The New York City Housing Authority, facing a $225 million budget shortfall, plans to sharply reduce its staff and sell vacant land in its projects for development into housing, much of it for middle-income residents, city officials said. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-10 The Grind of the Bump This summer, many planes are expected to be full, and travelers who get bumped could end up waiting days for another flight. But the difficulty of rebooking bumped passengers has made the experience more maddening. A1 A Move to Streamline Rules In an effort to keep financial services competitive in New York, Gov. Eliot Spitzer has created a panel focused on streamlining regulation in an industry dominated by financial service firms offering similar products and taking similar business risks. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21 Editorials: The coal trap; no more excuses on Darfur; ending our tobacco addiction; Verlyn Klinkenborg on driving across country. Columns: Thomas L. Friedman and Maureen Dowd. Crossword E2 TV Listings E8 Obituaries A19 Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (87%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); CITIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); TERRORISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BRIBERY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAWYERS (74%); RELIGION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); VERDICTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); FOOD LIABILITY LITIGATION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); EQUAL PAY (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); DRUG SAFETY (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SENTENCING (66%); FOOD SAFETY (66%); AIRLINES (65%); TUBERCULOSIS (65%); SCANDALS (65%); APPEALS (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); RICK PERRY (52%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



603 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Names a Panel to Improve Universities in New York

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and KAREN W. ARENSON

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 29 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer named a commission on Tuesday to recommend how to overhaul higher education in New York, saying he wanted to improve the reputation of the state's public universities. 
 At the same time, Mr. Spitzer disclosed he was nominating Carl Hayden, a lawyer in Elmira and one of the commission members, as chairman of the State University of New York.
As the chairman of the system's board of trustees, Mr. Hayden, a former chancellor of the state's Board of Regents, would play a significant role in any reshaping of the university. The Senate must confirm all trustee appointments. 
 The governor said his goal was to put New York's public universities on a par with those in California, North Carolina and Wisconsin, which are considered among the nation's finest. 
 ''We have some spectacular research institutions within the SUNY and CUNY system,'' Mr. Spitzer said at a news conference. ''They may not be perceived as such. They may need certain additions to get the public acclaim they deserve. We may need to somehow crystallize what is going on at various campuses to get them to that level.''
 The governor said he hoped that in five years the state would have four or five campuses that ''define excellence in particular areas.''
 SUNY is the largest public university in the United States, with more than 400,000 students on 64 campuses, including research centers, comprehensive colleges and community colleges. None are included in the U.S. News and World Report's widely quoted list of top 50 universities, which does have six California public universities. 
 It was not clear how much the governor was prepared to invest in the system, which already has an operating budget of $3.5 billion. The City University of New York, a separate institution, has a $2.2 billion operating budget. 
 He has asked for a preliminary version of its report by Dec. 1, for use in figuring next year's budget.
 Mr. Spitzer indicated that he thought the state university ''has so many masters'' that it might need a leaner administrative structure. ''SUNY has a board of regents, it has a chancellor, it has its own trustees, it has the Legislature, it has the governor, obviously. There is a disparate governing structure that to a certain extent has not permitted one articulable strategy and one unifying theory about what it can or should do.''
 Several other states and state universities have announced that they also hope to improve their national standings. 
 ''It's very hard to move up,'' said David W. Breneman, dean of the school of education at the University of Virginia. ''All of these other universities aren't standing still. And they've got the people, the infrastructure, the grants.''
 Mr. Spitzer's announcement of the commission received a tepid response from Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, whose support would be needed for major changes to the university system. Mr. Bruno, the state's top Republican, said in a statement that ''while there is nothing wrong with establishing a commission,'' the governor should adopt a Senate proposal to increase the financial aid the state gives students for college. 
 The chairman of the 30-member commission is Hunter R. Rawlings III, a former president of Cornell University. He said in an interview that while the state university would be a primary focus of the commission, the governor wanted to assess private universities as well. He said the governor was also talking about issues like governance, tuition policy and research excellence.
 The commission members are drawn from virtually every group with a stake in higher education in New York State, including presidents of public and private institutions, professors, union representatives and students. The only member from outside the state is Elena Kagan, dean of Harvard Law School. 
 The commission has also been charged with recommending how to improve access to public higher education, how to expand degree programs that will help economic development and how to smooth the transition between community colleges and four-year campuses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); BUDGETS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



604 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 839 words

PERSON: Parren J. Mitchell 

HEADLINE: Parren Mitchell, 85, Congressman and Rights Leader, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Parren J. Mitchell, who as the first black elected to Congress from Maryland led the Congressional Black Caucus and spearheaded programs to aid minority-owned business, an effort he viewed as the second phase of the civil rights movement, died on Monday in Baltimore. He was 85.
 The Greater Baltimore Medical Center announced his death. Mr. Mitchell had a series of strokes several years ago. He was the first black to attend graduate school at the University of Maryland, after he sued to gain admission. A Democrat, he was the first black elected to Congress from a state below the Mason-Dixon line since 1898. 
He was the first black to head the House Small Business Committee, whose historic constituency was the mostly white, mostly conservative small-business owners he had picketed as a youth.
 After a background in civil rights and Baltimore city politics, he entered Congress in 1971 at a time when racial and urban issues occupied center stage. He immediately became a vocal member of the caucus of black representatives that formed in 1969 and that adopted its present name around the time of his arrival.
 One of his first actions with the caucus, numbering 12 at the time, was to boycott President Richard M. Nixon's State of the Union address in 1971 after Nixon had refused to meet the group. (Nixon did meet the caucus weeks later.)
 A short, thin man with a big presence, Mr. Mitchell consistently took liberal positions and was among the first congressmen to condemn the Vietnam War and call for Nixon's resignation. In a speech dripping with sarcasm on the House floor in 1983, Mr. Mitchell thanked President Ronald Reagan for appointing a single black judge and for his ''generosity'' in giving the nation a 20.4 percent unemployment rate among blacks.
 Mr. Mitchell's most visible success was in leading a fight to enact bills to give special aid to black business owners on the ground that blacks had been subjected to discrimination for generations.
 In 1976, he attached an amendment to a public works bill stipulating that cities and states receiving federal grants had to award 10 percent of the money to minority-owned businesses. That year, he sponsored a bill requiring contractors to document their goals in contracting with minority-owned companies. Both measures became law.
 In 1980, his amendment to the Surface Transportation Assistance Act required 10 percent of the money to be set aside for minority businesses.
 The successes seemed to be reversed in 1995, when the Supreme Court limited the scope of government programs granting preferences based on race or sex. 
 Three years later, the Clinton administration gave new life to the laws when, to meet the court's new interpretation, it rewrote the enforcement policies. 
 Mr. Mitchell's family had been deeply involved in the civil rights movement and Maryland politics since the 1930s. His older brother, Clarence M. Mitchell Jr., was a lobbyist for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in the civil rights debates of the 1960s and '70s. 
 A sister-in-law, Juanita Jackson Mitchell, was the first black woman to practice law in Maryland and was considered the matriarch of the civil rights movement in Baltimore. 
 Mr. Mitchell left no immediate survivors.
 Parren James Mitchell was born on April 29, 1922 in Maryland. He was the ninth of 10 children, three of whom died in childhood. His father was a waiter at the Rennert Hotel in downtown Baltimore. He was 11 years old when his brother Clarence returned from seeing a black person lynched, and Parren immediately promised to devote his life to fighting for the rights of African-Americans, The Baltimore Sun reported.
 He attended Baltimore public schools and enlisted in the Army in World War II, winning a Purple Heart for wounds suffered in Italy. He graduated from what is now Morgan State University and applied to enter the graduate program of the University of Maryland at College Park.
 After the college president advised him to pursue the degree ''off campus,'' he sued and won admission as the first black graduate student there.
 After completing a master's in sociology in 1952, he taught sociology at Morgan State, worked for the Baltimore probation department and was director, successively, of two state human relations committees. 
 In President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, he headed the antipoverty program in Baltimore.
 In 1968, Mr. Mitchell lost a race for Congress to the incumbent but won the seat two years later. Over his eight terms, in addition to heading the Small Business Committee, he was also Democratic whip at large, the senior member of the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee, and chairman of its Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy.
 Mr. Mitchell was once described as ''one of God's angry men.'' Thomas L. Ashley, a Democratic representative from Ohio, said in an interview with The National Journal in 1978: ''Mitchell sees both sides of an issue. But he just sees one side better than the other.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parren J. Mitchell in 1997. (Photo by Gail Burton/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); RACE & RACISM (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); CITIES (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

RICHARD NIXON (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%) MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



605 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: What Happens if We Leave Iraq?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 ''Chaos Is Seen in Iraq Exit, but Experts Split on Degree'' (front page, May 27) shows that we are still failing to address the real questions about Iraq. Rather than discuss the violence that would follow a United States withdrawal, we should consider the desolation and death caused by a continued American presence. 
 Rather than address what's needed to make an American-imposed government work, consider whether such an artifice has the potential to do anything more than cause suffering and hostility, if not among Iraqi sects, then between Iraqis and Americans.
And as long as there are open issues, why not consider how rapidly imperial arrogance that ignores history and culture can obliterate a people, robbing them of both their economic and cultural infrastructure? Fred Schachat Durham, N.C., May 27, 2007 To the Editor: 
 Your headline article states the obvious: if United States troops pull out of Iraq, chaos will follow. It should be obvious that such chaos will follow whether American troops are pulled out sooner or later. 
 Let's face facts: The dictator Saddam Hussein kept Iraq under control through sheer brutality, and he kept Al Qaeda out of the country completely. The United States entered into war against Iraq irrationally, fed by lies and gross exaggerations, not the least of which was the implicit claim that Iraq had something to do with 9/11.
 Whatever is entered into irrationally cannot be exited rationally. The debate of whether to leave now or later tries to bring rationality into a picture that has been utterly irrational from the start.
 The United States had no business going to war in Iraq. The United States completely destabilized the country by overthrowing Saddam Hussein. 
 Stabilization will occur on Iraqi terms whenever the American military departs, and it will be bloody. The only difference between leaving now or later is how many Americans will be killed, wounded or psychologically destroyed for life; how much money the United States wastes in Iraq rather than spending it on critically needed infrastructure here; and how many more enemies we make by remaining there. Bruce Barnbaum Granite Falls, Wash., May 27, 2007 To the Editor:
 What we do in Iraq, or the timing of our departure, cannot change the fact that a humanitarian-political disaster will follow. How so? 
 Authoritarian rule is the Iraqi norm. Look to the Iraqi family, tribe and historical empires for the model. When we leave, a kind of Armageddon will follow to forge the autocrat who will determine how oil monies are distributed, how society conducts itself, who has privilege and who doesn't.
 We need to shift focus and plan explicitly for post-departure chaotic realities: how to keep the violence within Iraq's borders; minimize post-departure damage to innocents; protect our interests in the leadership struggle; and assure our access to Middle East oil.
 A Marine mother might better accept the loss of a son for a plan that reduces the post-exit carnage than for a surge whose tentative bench-marked gains are blown away after we leave. Gail Humphreys Santa Barbara, Calif., May 27, 2007 The writer is the mother of a United States marine who has served in Iraq and Afghanistan. To the Editor:
 Even though I felt that going to war in Iraq was a folly, I believed that once committed, we had a duty to see it through. No longer. Whether we leave tomorrow or 10 years from now, the result will be the same. 
 Our only sane recourse is to announce to the world our intention to end our ghastly mistake immediately and begin withdrawing, leaving the ultimate solution to the Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish populations and to the surrounding nations that would be most affected by a protracted civil war. This is what we will do eventually. 
 Every day that we delay costs only more American and allied lives. No matter when we leave and no matter the circumstance, Iraq will descend into a civil war that will end when the neighboring countries step in and broker a settlement. 
 The only thing we as a country can do at that point to save face would be to contribute generously to the reconstruction of the country that rises from the ruins. William Sarokin Mount Kisco, N.Y., May 28, 2007 To the Editor:
 In ''War Without End'' (editorial, May 27), you write that ''the only solution lies with the Iraqi leaders, who have to stop their sectarian blood feud and make a real attempt to form a united government.'' That is impossible.
 The only solution -- and it will inevitably come to pass -- is to divide Iraq into three nations whose boundaries can be guaranteed by the United Nations and the United States. The only questions are how long the divorce will take and how bloody it will be. 
 We owe it to the Iraqis to help make the process as quick and successful as possible. Unlike Palestine/Israel, there is nothing either historic or God-given about the existing boundary of Iraq. 
 A conference of Iraqi representatives and others under United Nations auspices for the express purpose of agreeing on boundaries, sharing oil revenues and trading populations may succeed. If that fails, we leave. Gerhard Stoll San Francisco, May 28, 2007 To the Editor:
 Your May 28 ''In Memoriam'' front-page photograph of a young woman prostrate with grief at Arlington National Cemetery before the fresh white gravestone of her fiance, killed three months ago in Iraq, shows once again with unbearable poignancy the price we are paying for this endless and endlessly futile war. With bare shoulders hunched in grief, she seems herself a sacrificial victim. 
 What can this war ever gain to salve her anguish, to make her believe that he did not die in vain? James Heffernan Hanover, N.H., May 28, 2007 To the Editor: 
 Re ''U.S. Casualties May Spike his Summer, Bush Warns'' (news article, May 25): 
 In his May 24 news conference, President Bush said that if we were to fail in the war on terror in the Iraq theater, the terrorists would come and get us and that it's better to fight them there than here. But he also said we are in Iraq at the invitation of the Iraqi government and if that government were to say we should leave, we would leave.
 If what the president said is true, it means that we would leave even though that would result in having to fight the terrorists here. It is frightening to think that our safety and security are dependent on decisions to be made by the fragile Iraq government. 
 With luck, this is just another example of President Bush's being careless with the truth and the United States will maintain control of its vital interests. Sylvan Gollin Claremont, Calif., May 25, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Hoppe) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HISTORY (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



606 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls for Wider and Less Costly Health Care Coverage

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER; Patrick Healy contributed reporting from Manchester, N.H.

DATELINE: IOWA CITY, May 29 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama proposed a major overhaul of the nation's health care system on Tuesday, aimed at covering the nearly 45 million uninsured Americans and reducing premium costs for everyone else.
 In the biggest domestic policy proposal so far of his presidential campaign, Mr. Obama, the Illinois Democrat, said he would rely on a combination of the existing employer-based system and a new government program to make health insurance accessible to everyone. He also promised to reduce the cost of health insurance by helping with expenditures for catastrophic illnesses that are a major factor in driving up employers' rates.
Throwing down a challenge to a powerful industry, Mr. Obama pledged new scrutiny and new limits on the profits of the biggest insurance companies, declaring it was simply ''the right thing to do.'' 
 Mr. Obama would pay for his plan by not renewing President Bush's tax cuts for the most affluent Americans -- those making more than $250,000 a year -- when they expire at the end of 2010, aides said. Campaign officials estimated that the net cost of the plan to the federal government would be $50 billion to $65 billion a year, when fully phased in, and said the revenues from rolling back the tax cuts were enough to cover it.
 Mr. Obama's speech came after months of criticism that his campaign lacked specificity and policy heft on complex issues like health care. It was also his first foray into an area that is widely considered the home terrain of his leading opponent for the Democratic nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who has yet to detail her own proposal. 
 The Obama plan drew from a long line of Democratic policy thinking; it reflects elements of proposals put forward by the Clintons, by Senator John Kerry in his 2004 presidential campaign and by former Senator John Edwards this year. It was built on advice from several economists, including Austan Goolsbee at the University of Chicago, David Cutler at Harvard and Stuart Altman at Brandeis.
 Rival Democrats, recognizing the stakes on this signature issue, responded quickly, arguing that because Mr. Obama would not require every American to have insurance, it is not a true universal health plan.
 Neera Tanden, policy director for Mrs. Clinton -- who had earlier delivered an economic policy speech to compete with Mr. Obama's -- welcomed Mr. Obama to the health care debate. Ms. Tanden added, ''Senator Clinton believes that in addition to making healthcare more accessible, we have to achieve true universal health care so that every American has health care coverage.''
 Mark Kornblau, a spokesman for Mr. Edwards's campaign, said, ''Any plan that does not cover all Americans is simply inadequate.''
 Others said the Democratic plans and approaches showed more agreement than ideological division.
 ''Voters will see more similarities than differences in the Democratic candidates' plans, and I think the edge will go to the candidate who convinces voters they can forge a consensus in Congress and get things done,'' said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group.
 Stuart Altman of Brandeis, who served in the Nixon administration and has advised many candidates and politicians since, said the Obama plan had major similarities not just to other Democratic proposals, but also to the Massachusetts health plan passed under Mitt Romney, now a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, when he was governor. Both are efforts to build on the existing system, with a mix of employer-based coverage and expanded public programs. But Mr. Altman said there were also differences, notably that the Obama plan puts more responsibilities on employers and focuses more on controlling costs, and avoids a requirement in the Romney plan that individuals buy coverage.
 In his speech, Mr. Obama acknowledged that similar efforts to expand coverage had failed in the past, ''crushed under the weight of Washington politics and drug and insurance industry lobbying.''
 But he added, ''This cannot be one of those years.''
 His proposal includes a new requirement that employers either provide coverage to their employees or pay the government a set percentage of their payroll to provide it. Similar requirements have proven intensely controversial, notably in 1993-94, when the Clinton health care plan went down in large measure because of a small-business backlash.
 Obama advisers said the smallest businesses would be exempt from this requirement.
 Mr. Obama would create a public plan for individuals who cannot obtain group coverage through their employers or the existing government programs, like Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Children would be required to have health insurance. Subsidies would be available for those who need help with the cost of coverage. 
 He would also create a National Health Insurance Exchange, a regulated marketplace of competing private health plans intended to give individuals other, more affordable options for coverage. The public plan would compete in that Insurance Exchange, advisers said.
 The Obama campaign revives an idea advanced by the Kerry campaign -- using the federal government to cushion employers from sudden, disastrous spikes in health expenditures, by reimbursing health plans for the cost of catastrophic illnesses among their employees. Because of this and other cost-containment proposals, Mr. Obama estimated his plan would save the typical family up to $2,500 a year in their health insurance costs.
 Mr. Obama described his plan to an audience at the University of Iowa, invoking the memory of Medicare and arguing that the time had come to finish the work of Harry S. Truman and Lyndon B. Johnson. He acknowledged that it would not be easy, but had to be done, because families who played by the rules were being driven into bankruptcy because of health care costs.
 ''It is simply not right that the skyrocketing profits of the drug and insurance industries are paid for by the skyrocketing premiums that come from the pockets of the American people,'' he said. ''This is not who we are. And this is not who we have to be.''
 In New Hampshire, Mrs. Clinton gave what her campaign had billed as a major policy address on income inequality. She promised to take steps to combat ''rising inequality and rising pessimism in our work force.''
 Mrs. Clinton said her prescriptions included reducing tax breaks for corporations, allowing Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices with pharmaceutical companies, eliminating incentives for companies to move jobs overseas and giving more students a chance to attend college.
 ''While productivity and corporate profits are up, the fruits of that success just haven't reached many of our families,'' she said. ''It's like trickle-down economics without the trickle.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Barack Obama, who introduced his health care plan yesterday, with doctors at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City. (Photo by Matthew Holst for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



607 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: The Continuing Saga of SIPP

 BODY:
A year ago, the Bush administration decided to kill what is arguably the single most important survey on the effects of government programs on Americans' lives. In a rare and welcome reversal, the administration has heeded the protests of policy experts and Congress and has decided to continue the project, known as SIPP, or Survey of Income and Program Participation. 
 Conducted by the Census Bureau since 1984, the survey provides much of what policy makers and the public know about the success or failure of government efforts to address poverty, health insurance and the problems of working families and the disabled. It is especially useful in projecting the impact of proposed changes in government policy.
On welfare-to-work programs, the SIPP has identified why some people move successfully into jobs while others revert to chronic unemployment. Having a disabled child, for instance, is a big reason that many women can't hold a job. If the goal is to move more women into work, that suggests the need for appropriate child care. On health insurance coverage, the survey has tracked individuals over long periods of time, revealing a truer picture of the number of uninsured Americans and the causes of on-and-off coverage, information that is necessary to properly define the problem -- and solve it. 
 Policy experts, in and out of government, worked to save the SIPP. They made the case that the administration's proposed replacement survey was untested and that even if it ultimately proved adequate, would not be ready anytime soon, thus creating an information void for several years.
 Having realized how important the SIPP is, the administration must now secure its full funding. When the White House developed its budget for 2008, it was planning on ending the survey and did not allocate any funds for it. Lawmakers could add the $35 million that is needed, but the White House has threatened to veto spending that exceeds its recommended levels. The administration should officially modify its budget request to ensure that the SIPP is fully funded. The information is too valuable to forgo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); VETO (77%); CENSUS (77%); FAMILY (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



608 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Copyrights That No One Knows About Don't Help Anyone

BYLINE: By HAL R. VARIAN. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
Here's a quiz question for authors: To copyright a written work in the United States, you must (a) register it with the Copyright Office; (b) insert a notice that says ''Copyright $; 2007''; (c) insert a notice that says ''All rights reserved.''
 Answer: none of the above. Under current law, a work is automatically copyrighted the moment it is ''fixed in tangible form.'' And these days, that copyright lasts virtually forever: 70 years after the death of the author, in most cases. 
Since there is no requirement to register a work and a copyright lasts so long, the legal owner of a work can be difficult to find, particularly when the work is more than a few decades old. 
 When some librarians at Carnegie Mellon University tried to request permissions to digitize a collection of out-of-print books, they were unable to find more than 20 percent of the rights holders, despite persistent efforts.
 Failing to locate rights holders can be costly since copyright infringement may be subject to statutory damages of up to $150,000 an incident.
 The costs of locating rights holders are an example of what economists call transactions costs. Not surprisingly, high transactions costs tend to discourage transactions from occurring.
 The so-called orphan works problem was examined by the Copyright Office in a 2006 report in which it proposed legislation to address the transactions costs issues.
 Under its proposal, if you conducted a ''diligent search'' to locate a rights holder and still failed to find the owner, you would be off the hook. You could then incorporate the work in question into your own work, as long as you provided proper attribution. If the legitimate rights holder was subsequently found, he or she could not require that your work be withdrawn from circulation, but could collect ''reasonable compensation'' for use.
 But what is a ''diligent search?'' The report leaves the interpretation of this phrase up to the courts but suggests some relevant considerations: whether the work includes identification, the age of the work, whether the work can be found in public databases like Copyright Office records, and so on.
 The Copyright Office's proposal is certainly a step in the right direction. Clarifying the rights and obligations of the buyers and sellers of copyrighted material would reduce transactions costs, and that should lead to a more efficient market for intellectual property.
 But does the proposed legislation go far enough? According to Lawrence Lessig, a Stanford University Law professor who is an expert in copyright law, it does not. He favors a system where authors receive an automatic copyright when they create new works, but they must register their copyright within 14 years to retain it past the initial period. (Unfortunately, such a registration requirement cannot apply to foreign creators because of international copyright treaties.)
 This is in the same spirit as the copyright law in place before 1964 requiring that copyrights be renewed at the Copyright Office in their 28th year. Materials that weren't renewed fell into the public domain.
 Mr. Lessig envisions the Copyright Office as specifying the standards for registries but not necessarily operating them, since the private sector may be better positioned to build and maintain such systems. His inspiration is the domain name system used to register Internet sites. In that system, a standards body specifies the design, but it is up to individual organizations to carry out the necessary registries.
 The proposals by the Copyright Office and Mr. Lessig are not necessarily exclusive. If easily accessible copyright registries existed, the courts would probably find that simply searching the registries would satisfy the diligent search requirement. Creators of works with commercial potential would then have strong incentives to register their works.
 In such a world, a legal requirement to register works could be redundant, since the commercial incentives to register would be strong. Still, why take a chance? Establishing the expectations that works should be registered to receive the full protection of copyright law makes a lot of sense.
 Creating a registry is not that difficult from either a technological or a business perspective. The Copyright Clearance Center (www.copyright.com) was established by a group of publishers in 1978 to provide rights clearance for printed works. The Harry Fox Agency (www.harryfox.com) serves as a clearinghouse for those who want to make recordings of songs, and there are plenty of Web sites devoted to image search to ease the sharing of photographs.
 But would the creators charge excessive fees if rights clearinghouses became widespread? I would argue that just the opposite would occur. An easy-to-use, efficient and competitive marketplace tends to push prices down. Reducing the transactions costs of acquiring reproduction rights potentially makes both creators and users of information better off.
 The orphan works legislation from the Copyright Office is still on the back burner in Congress. Let us hope that it soon gets the attention it deserves. Information plays a crucial role in today's economy. Making it easy for creators and users of information to find each other should be a high priority for policy makers.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day on Thursday, about the limitations of the current copyright law and proposals to fix it, misstated the year that changes in the law went into effect. It was 1978, not 1964. (Under the revised law, books published before 1964 could have their copyright renewed in the 28th year after their initial registration.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHT (93%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); WRITERS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (73%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



609 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Small Business Not as Usual

BYLINE: By RON NIXON and ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Hannah Kain, a small-business owner in Fremont, Calif., started her packaging services business, ALOM Technologies, in 1997 with a $250,000 Small Business Administration loan. In 2000, her 70-employee company was singled out as an entrepreneurial success by the agency, complete with a ceremony in San Francisco.
 But in 2003, when she lost a government contract to package and distribute informational CDs to military bases around the world, she didn't bother to turn to the S.B.A. for help.
 ''I'm not so sure about the overall competency level and the ability to follow through,'' Ms. Kain said. ''The best you can expect is a list of government agencies you can contact.'' 
 Her assessment reflects a growing frustration among many small-business owners with the agency.
 Over the last five decades, the S.B.A. has been there to propel the likes of Federal Express, Intel, Staples and thousands of lesser-known small businesses. But advocates say recent policy changes and severe budget and staffing cuts in the last six years have left the agency unable to fulfill its mission to provide programs and services to the nation's 25 million small companies, which the agency defines as businesses with 500 or fewer workers. Since 2001, the agency's budget has been sliced nearly in half, to $464 million in the proposed 2008 budget. Staff cuts have been almost as deep, with the agency losing 31 percent of its work force.
 Nowhere has the impact of these changes been felt more than in the S.B.A.'s primary loan program for small businesses, known as 7(a).
 Since the 2005 fiscal year, the agency has cut funding to the program and restored an earlier, more costly fee structure for borrowers. Now a borrower pays a minimum of $2,000 in upfront fees for the smaller loans up to $150,000, a rise from $1,000 before. For larger loans up to $700,000, the fee now is 3 percent, up from 2.5 percent before. For loans above $700,000, the fee remains unchanged at 3.5 percent. 
 Even with the higher fees, the agency says, the loans have easier credit terms and longer repayment periods than those typically available at commercial banks. But many small-business advocates say that is a moot point as many small businesses cannot even pull together the amounts to cover the fees.
 The S.B.A. has also proposed raising the fees in its microloan program, which can be used for construction and expansion of facilities. Together these loans totaled $20 billion in 2006, according to the S.B.A.
 While fees for the loans have increased, the average size of the loans under the 7(a) and microloan programs has decreased 25 percent, to $188,878 in fiscal year 2006, from $252,314 in fiscal year 2001, according to data from the S.B.A. The total number of loans has more than doubled, however. 
 The S.B.A. said that part of the reason that the average amount of the loans has dropped is because a number of banks use a process called S.B.A. Express. For it, banks use their own documents and need less interaction with the agency. The S.B.A guarantees only 50 percent of these loans instead of the 75 percent to 85 percent on larger loans.
 The increased fees for the loans may have had another effect. The number of banks participating has dropped by nearly half, to 2,751 in fiscal 2006, from 5,228 in fiscal 2001, according to the National Small Business Association in Washington. The association said some of the drop may reflect bank consolidation, but fees and other changes in the 7(a) program had the biggest impact.
 Because of the higher fees, many entrepreneurs have turned to a growing credit card market aimed at small-business owners. A survey by the association found that the overwhelming majority of small businesses use credit cards for their financing instead of S.B.A or other bank loans -- meaning that the interest rate paid can be as much as 10 percentage points more than a conventional loan. 
 ''The S.B.A. in many ways is hurting small business by increasing these fees,'' said Marilyn Landis, owner of Basic Business Concepts, a small company in Pittsburgh, who relies on credit cards for most of her financing. ''The decrease in the size of the loans is certainly a detriment to small companies -- it's barely enough to get a company started and certainly not enough to grow one.'' Ms. Landis is vice chairwoman of the National Small Business Association.
 Even more than the higher fees, reduced staffing levels at the agency have had a profound effect on small business, advocates say.
 Smaller staffs have contributed to a loss of institutional knowledge at the S.B.A. and many people are in jobs in which they lack the necessary training, said Morris A. Little, president of B&W Solutions, a human resource management firm in Oxon Hill, Md. Mr. Little is chairman of the board of the National Black Chamber of Commerce.
 ''You have people that can't even explain S.B.A. programs to you,'' Mr. Little said. ''It's frustrating, and after a while you don't even bother asking.''
 The biggest area where the staff cutbacks are hurting small business is in helping gain access to $400 billion in federal contracting, Mr. Little and others said.
 According to a study by Congressional Democrats last year, small businesses lost more than $12 billion in contracts because of miscoding: the contracts went instead to giant corporations like Wal-Mart and Google, among others.
 Staffing was cited as a main factor because the agency does not have enough people to ensure that federal agencies meet their legally mandated goal of providing 23 percent of their contracts to small businesses. 
 Over all, the number of full-time S.B.A. employees has dropped 29 percent since 2001, to 2,047 from 2,863, according to the agency. The agency has 54 people who oversee federal contracting, fewer than it had in 1993 when federal contracting was half its current size. A result is that small businesses got just 19 percent of federal contracts in 2006, according to Eagle Eye, a research firm in Fairfax, Va. And that 19 percent includes large corporations coded as small businesses, the firm said, so the actual number could be smaller.
 Steven C. Preston, who became the S.B.A. administrator last June, acknowledges that budget and staffing cuts have hurt, but he still sees the agency's loan programs and services as vital to small business. 
 To address budget shortfalls and staffing cuts, Mr. Preston asked Congress for $464 million for the 2008 fiscal year. The budget request is 5 percent higher than the approved budget for fiscal 2006. For the 2007 fiscal year, the agency operated without an approved budget, under a continuing resolution that provided the same funding as the year before. 
 Mr. Preston said the agency was committed to hiring more employees, including procurement-contracting representatives who would work with other government agencies to make sure that small businesses get their share of federal contracts.
 To reach this goal , the agency recently promulgated regulations requiring small businesses to recertify their size status on long-term contracts when a contract option is exercised, when a small business is purchased by or merged with another business or at the end of the first five years of a contract.
 While applauding Mr. Preston's efforts, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle say they do not feel the moves are nearly enough.
 ''The S.B.A. simply cannot do its job on this starvation diet the current administration has it on,'' said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and chairman of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee. 
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, has also voiced her concerns about cuts to the S.B.A., saying the budget is still 31 percent less than it was in 2001. Mr. Kerry and Ms. Snowe have proposed a $97 million increase in the S.B.A.'s budget and hiring 100 more people to oversee small-business contracting. 
 The legislation has been approved in the Senate, and Representative Nydia M. Velasquez, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, is pushing similar legislation in the House.
 The House recently passed legislation that would increase the share of federal contracts for small business from 23 percent to 25 percent. 
 Even with the legislation, though, lawmakers say that the agency will still not be on solid footing.
 ''We are talking about six straight years of cuts to the agency's budget and programs,'' Ms. Velasquez said. ''This is not something you can correct overnight.''
 The Bush administration opposes several of the Congressional efforts, despite bipartisan support.
 Even with the proposed changes, some aren't so sure that the S.B.A, can be turned around.
 Noting that the S.B.A. backs less than 10 percent of the more than $600 billion in financing of small-business loans under $1 million, they question what help small businesses actually get from the agency.
 ''From a broader public policy perspective I think it is harder to justify something like the S.B.A. today,'' said Mark Zandi, an economist with Moody's Economy.com. ''A quarter- century ago it made sense, but today it's much easier for small businesses to get credit.''
 Veronique de Rugy, a research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, calls the S.B.A. ''irrelevant,'' adding: ''There seems to be no failure of the private sector to allocate loans efficiently.''
 Small-business advocates disagree. 
 Andrew Langer, manager of regulatory affairs at the National Federation of Independent Business, said that although few of his members use S.B.A. loans, the agency, if adequately financed, could serve as an important voice for small business.
 ''If you shut down the S.B.A., you lose an organization that is the strongest advocate for small business,'' Mr. Langer said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Morris A. Little, president of B&W Solutions, a personnel management firm in Oxon Hill, Md., said dealing with the Small Business Administration was frustrating, ''and after a while you don't even bother asking.'' (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (95%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MICROFINANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



610 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Detente in the Battle Between Venus and Mars

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Like bickering relatives at the end of a long holiday dinner, women have been arguing about whether the gender revolution is over and more mothers are choosing to leave work and stay home with the children. 
 Now experts who shared their latest research at a conference this month say that far from reverting to more traditional sex roles, women and men are becoming more alike in their attitudes toward balancing life at home and at work.
The gender revolution is not over, they say, it has just developed into ''gender convergence.'' 
 ''The conventional wisdom is that 'men are from Mars and women are from Venus,' '' said Molly Monahan Lang, a sociologist at Bloomsburg University of Pennsylvania. ''On the contrary, we are from one small world that is getting smaller.''
 In one of the most comprehensive reviews of current research on families and work, Dr. Monahan Lang and Barbara J. Risman, chairwoman of the sociology department at the University of Illinois in Chicago, analyzed findings from studies based on national census data, in-depth interviews, and dozens of surveys for a conference organized by the Council on Contemporary Families, a nonpartisan group of researchers and clinicians.
 What they found were more similarities than differences in men and women. ''The evidence overwhelmingly shows an ongoing shift toward what we call 'gender convergence,' an ever-increasing similarity in how men and women live and what they want from their lives,'' Dr. Monahan Lang and Dr. Risman write.
 Several other social scientists at the conference who are doing independent research have come to similar conclusions. Ellen Galinsky, president of the Family and Work Institute, said many more men were reporting feeling tension between family and work life, even if their wives stayed home. And in a report about parents at Fortune 100 companies published in December, Rosalind Chait Barnett, the director of the Community, Families and Work Program at Brandeis University, found that when it came to concern over how their children spent their time after school, fathers and mothers were virtually the same.
 Of course, most people recognize that mothers are working more and doing less housework, and men are working less and doing more housework and child care than a generation ago -- albeit still significantly less than women. But what much of the recent research has tried to tease out is more information on attitudes and desires. 
 And so far, the evidence points toward men and women having increasingly similar goals. When Teresa Aguayo and Frederick Moehn had their third child, Mr. Moehn took a six-month sabbatical from teaching music at Stony Brook University to care for the baby.
 Now, the 1-year-old has a nanny, the 3-year-old is in day care and the 5-year-old is in preschool. Child care costs more than Ms. Aguayo, 34, makes as the program coordinator for the Brazilian studies program at Columbia University, but she said: ''We figured it would be much harder to get back in the job market after caring for a child. I knew I wanted to go back to work, and I love my job.''
 Convergence shows up more in younger parents, said Kathleen Gerson, author of ''Hard Choices: How Women Decide About Work, Career, and Motherhood.'' After conducting 120 in-depth interviews with men and women ages 18 to 32, Dr. Gerson found that Generation X fathers spent more time with their children than did baby boomer fathers, and that both sexes aspired to the same ideal: ''a balance between work and family.'' 
 What would they do if they could not achieve that balance? The women, at least, said that rather than stay home with the children, they were intent on establishing ''a solid economic base,'' Dr. Gerson said. (For men, the fall-back position is to have their wives stay home while they win the bread.)
 Still, given the passions that surround this issue, the conclusions are just as likely to stir up the debate as to settle it. In recent months, women have variously argued in books and elsewhere that mothers want to work for personal fulfillment; need to work for economic security; want to raise children full time; or want all of these things at different times. Scholars, meanwhile, complain that the public discussion has been distorted by a fascination with a tiny sliver of high-income earners.
 When it comes down to it, discussions about the so-called mommy wars really encompass two separate arguments: one about interpreting work-force statistics, the other about values. And how one decides the first is often determined by the second.
 One prominent dispute over figures, for example, involves the slight decline in women's employment -- less than 2 percent -- since 2000 after four decades of steady climb. Paula England, a sociologist at Stanford University, maintains the tiny up-and-down blips are not that important. 
 ''If you really look at the big picture, it's completely trivial,'' Dr. England said. 
 ''Some resurgence of traditional values,'' may partly explain the slowed increased in women's employment in the 1990s, she said. But she and others argue that it is also likely that ''there is a limit to how much women's employment can continue to increase unless business, the state or men take up the slack,'' by offering paid parental leave or flexible working times.
 Similarly, Dr. Monahan Lang and Dr. Risman concede that many more women than men take time off to take care of their children. But those differences are minor, they say, compared with the large historical leaps in the number of women working. 
 ''I think there is little doubt that men and women have become more similar over time, and that gender expectations are less rigid than they used to be,'' Dr. Monahan Lang said. ''The controversy is really about whether to view these changes as positive or negative.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Teresa Aguayo, left, and her husband spend more on childcare than she makes at her university job. (Photo by Damon Winter/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENTING (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); FAMILY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); MEN (78%); WOMEN (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CENSUS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



611 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Democracy in Pakistan

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 The assumption in your May 23 editorial ''Propping Up the General'' that United States aid can prop up any leader in Pakistan -- a country of 150 million with a $150 billion G.D.P. -- is insulting. Most of the United States money reimburses the use of our military facilities and cost of operations in support of the United States-led counterterrorism war in Afghanistan. 
Surely, Pakistan can survive without this modest help. But can the United States win the war in Afghanistan and against terrorism without Pakistan's military and political cooperation?
 Pakistan has increased, not decreased, its military patrolling on the Afghan-Pakistani border, deploying 90,000 troops, more than double the size of the United States-NATO military presence throughout Afghanistan. 
 Your repeated references to our president as a military dictator are offensive. President Pervez Musharraf was elected in accordance with Pakistan's Constitution by our national and provincial parliaments. His re-election will be similarly democratic.
 Advocacy of external pressure that could destabilize Pakistan's present trajectory toward economic dynamism and political, social and religious moderation is not only contrary to international law, but it is also contrary to the United States' national interest. 
 Pakistan's real friend should support the endeavor of our president to ensure peaceful, free, fair and open elections later this year. This would consolidate democracy in Pakistan; what you suggest would subvert it. Munir Akram Ambassador Permanent Mission of Pakistan to the United Nations New York, May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TERRORISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



612 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: S.& P. Index Climbs Past the Record It Set 7 Years Ago

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The stock market yesterday clawed back to where it was seven years ago during the heady days of technology and the Internet boom -- and it had to overcome an overnight sell-off in China to get there.
 Stocks, which struggled for much of the day after markets fell in Asia and Europe, received a midafternoon boost from the minutes of a Federal Reserve meeting that indicated that policy makers had become somewhat more upbeat about the economy. The tone of the minutes, if not the substance, heartened investors, who sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the most widely followed benchmark of American stocks, past a level last reached on March 24, 2000.
The index -- a weighted measure of the biggest American companies, from Exxon Mobil to Google -- gained 0.8 percent, or 12.12 points, to 1,530.23, surpassing the record of 1,527.46.
 The S.& P. climbed past the record early last week, too, but failed to hold onto the gains until the end of regular trading as it did yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average, which has been breaking records with some regularity in the last several months, closed up 111.74 points, or 0.83 percent, to 13,633.08, another record. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 20.53 points yesterday, or 0.8 percent, to 2,592.59. The Nasdaq has yet to come close to regaining the levels reached during the Internet boom. It is down 49 percent from its March 2000 high.
 The S.& P. breakthrough was set on a day that began with worries about a bubble in Chinese stocks. The stock market in Shanghai tumbled 6.5 percent yesterday after the government in Beijing trebled the taxes on stock transactions in an effort to rein in what has become the world's hottest stock market. [Page C4.] 
 In February, the Shanghai market precipitated a wave of selling on markets around the world after a similar sell-off. But after a brief period of uncertainty in late February and early March, investors have been pushing American stocks steadily upward. This time, the nervousness was much shorter-lived.
 ''If we see a 20 or 30 percent decline in the Shanghai index, that will cause investors to sit up and take notice,'' Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, said yesterday. ''Basically, investors say, 'You've got to increase the shock value, not merely replicate it to get my attention the second time around.' ''
 The United States market has been supported by a strong flow of corporate takeovers, companies buying back their own shares and corporate earnings that are proving to be better than expected.
 That optimism appears to be overshadowing, at least for now, concerns about the slowing American economy, rising energy prices, a modest increase in interest rates and the troubles in the housing market.
 ''We have a remarkably positive environment for securities,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management. ''You have 5 percent real world G.D.P. growth right now and you have massive excessive liquidity sloshing around.''
 According to minutes of the Fed meeting on May 9, officials seemed to think that the economic outlook had improved somewhat, even as they acknowledged that the housing market and the problems in subprime mortgages would serve as a bigger drag on the economy than they had previously thought.
 But the minutes reiterated, as statements from the Fed have for many months now, that policy makers remain concerned that inflation is too high and too unsettled to warrant a change in policy, which has been to leave short-term interest rates unchanged at 5.25 percent. There are also signs that the recent moderation in inflation could be threatened by rising gasoline prices, which have climbed past $3 a gallon for the first time since last summer.
 Still, investors appeared willing to look past the Fed's concerns about housing and inflation, two staple worries that while they have raised eyebrows have not yet sapped corporate profits or the frenzied deal-making on Wall Street.
 While the outlook for profits is not as ebullient as it was in the last several years, it remains reasonably upbeat. Low interest rates have also ensured that businesses still have easy access to credit. (The 4.87 percent yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which has risen in the last two months, is still historically low.)
 ''Until interest rates rise significantly and investors become excessively optimistic, the market is likely to continue upward,'' said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company, a securities firm.
 Yet, some skeptics worry that investors have become too complacent since early March; the S.& P. has risen about 11.4 percent in the period. The rally, they say, does not appear to reflect the rise in interest rates, the slowdown in the economy and the recent increase in gasoline prices, said Robert C. Doll, vice chairman at BlackRock, the asset management company.
 ''Markets never move in one direction for a long period of time,'' Mr. Doll said. ''The glass is being viewed as half full, which it is, but there is always another side to the story.''
 Still, many market specialists note that even with the recent run-up in the stock market, American companies are cheap compared with the past and with other world markets. The price-to-earnings ratio for companies in the S.& P. is about 18 today, compared with 32.8 in 2000 and a 21-year average of 22.5.
 The S.& P., which is up 97 percent since October 2002 when a two-year bear market ended, has lagged behind other stock indexes and markets by a significant margin. By comparison, a Morgan Stanley index that tracks stock markets in developed countries excluding the United States is up 161 percent in that time. 
 That difference is, in part, a reflection of the huge role played by technology stocks in the S.& P. 500, both in driving it to giddy heights in the 1990s and bringing it down at the start of this decade.
 The information technology sector of the index is still down about 60.8 percent from March 2000 and the telecommunications sector, which includes far fewer companies today, is down by about 43 percent. Consider JDS Uniphase, a maker of telecommunications parts and a former stock market darling. Its shares soared by more than 2,500 percent from August 1998 to March 2000. Since then, it is down by 95 percent.
 Of course, many technology companies that played a leading role in the market in the last decade are either no longer part of the index or make up a far smaller portion of it. (Since March 2000, there have been 199 changes in the membership of the index.)
 Leadership of the stock market has shifted to the energy sector, which is up 150.7 percent since 2000, followed by the materials business, up 84 percent. Both sectors have benefited from the boom in commodities that has been driven by the fast growth of China, India and other developing nations.
 There are also signs that many investors have not fully regained the faith in the market that they lost after the end of the technology boom and the terrorist attacks of 2001. In numerous polls during the last several years, Americans have expressed tepid enthusiasm for the stock market and a much stronger faith in housing.
 The flow of money into mutual funds that specialize in domestic stocks, a proxy for investor sentiment, has been particularly weak in the last several years.
 Even the recent rally in the American market has not been enough to draw many individual investors to American stocks.
 Through the second week in May, investors this year have put just $25.3 billion into mutual funds that specialize in domestic stocks. By contrast, they have plowed more than twice that,$56.1 billion, into nondomestic funds, according to AMG Data Services.
 ''There is no demand push from investor sentiment that is driving these markets to record levels,'' said Robert L. Adler, president of AMG Data, a research firm based in Arcata, Calif.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions for four-week bills and five-year notes: (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 99.701 High Yield: 4.818 Low Yield: 4.752 Median Yield: 4.805 Total applied for: $37,076,333 Accepted: $16,235,853 Noncompetitive: $186,494 Interest set at: 4.75% The 5-year notes mature May 31, 2012. (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 99.622 High Rate: 4.860 Coupon Yield: 4.960 Low Rate: 4.820 Median Rate: 4.850 Total applied for: $48,397,180 Accepted: $22,102,732 Noncompetitive: $437,879 The four-week bills mature June 28, 2007. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange were busy yesterday as the S.& P. hit a record high. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) Chart: ''A New High for a Popular Index. What Took So Long?'' Yesterday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which is calculated based on the size of the companies in the index (capitalization weighted), surpassed its record high set March 24, 2000. But another version of the S. & P. 500 (price weighted) that is calculated like the Dow industrials has been recording new highs for months. Graph shows the S. & P. 500 (capitalization weighted), the Dow industrials, the S. & P. 500 (price weighted), and the Nasdaq composite since 2000. SECTORS: Energy CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: +150.7 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 94% SECTORS: Materials CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 84.0 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 93 SECTORS: Consumer staples CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 71.1 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 92 SECTORS: Financials CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 52.2 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 91 SECTORS: Utilities CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 42.4 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 88 SECTORS: Health care CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 32.3 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 78 SECTORS: Industrials CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 29.5 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 94 SECTORS: Consumer discretionary CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: + 10.5 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 78 SECTORS: Telecommunication CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: -43.0% NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 29 SECTORS: Information technology CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: -60.8 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 21 SECTORS: Total S. & P. 500 CHANGE SINCE MARCH 24, 2000: +0.2 NO. OF STOCKS UP SINCE MARCH 24, 2000*: 76 For stocks now in S. & P. 500 for which prices on March 24, 2000, were available. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



613 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 640 words

PERSON: Jorg Immendorff 

HEADLINE: Jorg Immendorff, 61, Painter With Provocative Themes

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
Jorg Immendorff, a German painter best known for crowded scenes depicting an acidic, often autobiographical comedy of art, politics and history, died on Monday at his home in Dusseldorf. He was 61.
 He died of complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, according to Michael Werner, Mr. Immendorff's dealer since 1969. His disease was diagnosed in 1998.
Mr. Immendorff was one of the most versatile and provocative artists in postwar Germany, where they were not exactly in short supply. Like the artists Sigmar Polke, Markus Lupertz, A. R. Penck and Anselm Kiefer, he was born during World War II and grew up shadowed by his country's Nazi past, long postwar division and, for West Germany, booming economic recovery. He engaged this haunting German condition head-on. 
 He was best known for his populous, elaborately theatrical ''Cafe Deutschland'' paintings. Begun in the late 1970s, these were part political cartoon, part history painting, part memoir. They lampooned the paradoxes of West German society by depicting disparate casts of characters in skewed cabaret settings. Their rubbery forms and figures might include the German eagle, Stalin or Hitler, as well as friends and other artists. These were the first works that Mr. Immendorff exhibited in New York in the early 1980s at the Sonnabend Gallery, then in SoHo. 
 His generation became known as the Neo-Expressionists, but Mr. Immendorff's work ranged from Fluxus performance to didactic Conceptual paintings to a deliberately infantile series of objects, paintings and performances that he named ''Lidl,'' after the noise made by a baby's rattle. In one work he marched to and fro in front of the West German Parliament in Bonn with a wood block labeled ''Lidl'' tethered to his ankle and painted in the colors of the German flag. He was arrested for defaming the flag. 
 Mr. Immendorff was born in Bleckede, in Lower Saxony. His parents divorced when he was young and his mother struggled for the means to send him to a strict boarding school. He disliked it and used his textbooks as drawing notebooks. 
 In 1961 he had his first exhibition at the New Orleans Jazz Club in Bonn. Two years later, when the writer Stefan Andres bought three of his works, Mr. Immendorff left boarding school and entered the Dusseldorf Art Academy. There he studied for three terms with the theater designer Teo Otto, who had worked with Bertolt Brecht. 
 After Otto threw him out of his class for refusing to let one of his paintings serve as stage-set decoration, Mr. Immendorff was accepted as a student by the charismatic sculptor Joseph Beuys. While at odds with Beuys's mysticism, Mr. Immendorff was deeply affected by his belief that art could change society. Beuys's rail-thin figure and distinctive profile and hat figured repeatedly in Mr. Immendorff's work. But his time with Otto came in handy when he designed sets for the operas ''Elektra'' and ''The Rake's Progress.'' The latter also inspired a series of paintings in which he cast himself as the rake.
 An easygoing man who became a friend of Gerhard Schroder, the German chancellor from 1998 to 2005, Mr. Immendorff had earlier owned a bar in the red-light district of Dusseldorf. In 2004 he received a suspended 11-month sentence and a fine after his arrest for possession of cocaine in a Dusseldorf hotel during an orgy with nine prostitutes. 
 He taught widely and in 1996 received the Mexican Marco Prize, worth $250,000. His retrospective at the National Museum in Warsaw in 1998 was the first accorded a German artist by a Polish museum since the end of World War II. 
 After his diagnosis of Lou Gehrig's disease, Mr. Immendorff worked to raise consciousness about that illness and funds for research. 
 He is survived by his wife, Oda, whom he married in 2000, and their daughter, Ida. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jorg Immendorff's ''Cafe Deutschland V,'' acrylic on canvas, from 1979. (Photo by Michael Werner Gallery)
 Jorg Immendorff (Photo by Wolfgang Kumm/European Pressphoto Agency, 1999) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); POLITICS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); THEATER (73%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (69%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (66%); TEXTBOOKS (65%); JAZZ & BLUES (64%); ARRESTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (71%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



614 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Association to Promote Early Music (Better Late Than Never)

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
For the last 20 years critics and early-music fans in New York have lamented that, despite a growing number of period-instrument ensembles and vocal groups, and the continuing popularity of early music on recordings, it remains a backwater in the city's musical life. Now a new organization, Gotham Early Music Scene, is setting out to change all that. 
 Its founder and executive director, Gene Murrow, says that by offering support services to New York's ensembles, and by presenting concerts meant as much to draw the attention of out-of-town presenters as New York concertgoers, Gotham hopes to bring cohesiveness and vitality to the city's patchwork of early-music groups. The organization will help them with marketing, ticket sales, merchandising and assembling the financial data required for grant applications. 
Gotham is also assembling a new period-instrument orchestra specializing in the Classical and early-Romantic repertory under the direction of John Scott, the organist and director of music at St. Thomas Church Fifth Avenue. The ensemble of 35 players will makes its debut at Town Hall on Oct. 1 with an all-Haydn program. 
 Gotham is also offering a mini-festival in which 12 ensembles -- among them, Pomerium Musices, Parthenia, Lionheart and the New York Consort of Viols -- will play 30-minute sets in concerts on Oct. 4 and 7 at the Stage at Times Center, the 375-seat concert hall in The New York Times's new building on Eighth Avenue at 41st Street. 
 The series takes place during Early Music Celebration 2007, the second festival run by Frederick Renz and the Early Music Foundation, which supports Mr. Renz's ensemble, Early Music New York. Mr. Murrow was general manager of Mr. Renz's foundation for four years, through 2006. Both men describe their parting as amicable, and say they are not in competition: Mr. Renz said he invited Mr. Murrow to make his series part of the larger celebration, and Mr. Murrow said that it would be. 
 ''We thought it would be useful to have a cluster of concerts that shows off as many New York groups as possible,'' Mr. Murrow said. ''By putting several groups on one bill, our hope was that if someone is a great fan of Pomerium but had never heard Artek, this would be an opportunity to hear them at the same performance.''
 He added, though, that presenting concerts would be only a small part of what Gotham does, adding that its focus would be on helping groups market themselves more efficiently. He argued that most early-music groups are grass-roots organizations in which the performers are responsible for everything from preparing mailings to writing grant applications, using time that would be better spent researching, rehearsing and performing. Turning the administrative tasks over to Gotham not only leaves them free to pursue their purely musical endeavors, he said, but also reduces the ensembles' costs. 
 ''It's a matter of economy of scale,'' he said. ''It's much more expensive, and less efficient, for 20 groups to maintain their own mailing lists than for us to do it for all 20. The same with credit-card processing. To get merchant status from any of the credit-card companies is expensive for a single group that will use it in a handful of concerts every year. But if all the groups combine and use us as the credit-card gateway, they get the benefit.'' 
 Mr. Murrow said that the cost savings are passed on to the ensembles. He added that he expected Gotham itself to be supported by donations; so far he has raised $100,000 to get started, and he is convinced that he can run the new orchestra for about $200,000 a year, he said. 
 ''This is the big question,'' he said. ''If these are small groups, with limited money flowing through the system, how can they pay for what we do? And the answer is, they can't. But I'm convinced that by representing this whole slice of culture in New York, we can attract five- or six-figure donations.'' 
 The organization's board includes Louise Basbas, the executive director of the Music Before 1800 series; Joyce Bodig, the concert manager at the Frick Collection; Rita Putnam, a program officer at the New York State Council on the Arts; Anne W. Lowenthal, an art historian; and Anthony Elitcher, a lawyer. 
 ''I'm a pie-in-the-sky optimist,'' Mr. Murrow said. ''But think about culture in New York as a timeline, from 1870 on. You see the founding of the Metropolitan Museum, the New York Philharmonic, the New York City Ballet, Jazz at Lincoln Center; at each point, the city recognized a center of gravity in our culture that needed support. And I believe that it's time for the city to have an institution to support this part of the culture.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (96%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TICKET SALES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



615 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 880 words

PERSON: Sam Kagel 

HEADLINE: Sam Kagel, Mediator of 1982 N.F.L. Strike, Dies at 98

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Sam Kagel, a mediator and arbitrator whose career settling labor disputes ranged from the rowdy San Francisco docks of the 1930s to the N.F.L. fields of the early 1980s, died on May 21 in San Francisco. He was 98.
 His son, John, announced the death. 
In 1982, a strike by National Football League players was in its 22nd day when they and the league agreed to appoint Mr. Kagel as mediator. He brought experience from thousands of labor disputes, a salty sense of humor and a proven readiness to stalk out of stalled negotiations. The players and the team owners were miles apart, and feared that the season and the Super Bowl would be canceled.
 After Mr. Kagel's return from one of several dramatic exits from the bargaining table, Theodore Kheel, a mediation expert and a former counsel to the N.F.L., said in an interview with The New York Times:
 ''Sam Kagel exposed both sides to the most severe pressure. They were both out in the cold. There they were with the season rapidly dwindling. Now they've been forced back together again. Sam is in a stronger position now.''
 The season was saved after a 57-day strike, although only nine games were played instead of 16. The owners were perceived to have won because the settlement provided no more money in salaries than they had offered at the talks' beginning. They also successfully resisted a union-controlled salary fund and a plan to give the union a fixed percentage of league revenues.
 Players won, among other things, the right to have their salaries made public, giving them more bargaining power. The agreement set the framework for the football industry: higher salaries, but without the guarantees prevalent in other professional sports. 
 In the football talks, which were held in Hunt Valley, Md., and later in New York, Mr. Kagel practiced a technique he christened ''med-arb,'' in which he projected some of the authority he had in personally deciding arbitration cases, his specialty, to persuade parties to agree in mediation cases. In a book he wrote with Kathy Kelly in 1990, ''The Anatomy of Mediation: What Makes It Work,'' he described the mediator as a third negotiator who is ''neutral, but not neutered.'' 
 As an independent arbitrator in other football disputes, Mr. Kagel ruled in 1986 against the N.F.L.'s demand that players submit to drug tests that were not required in the 1982 contract. In 2000, after running back Barry Sanders of the Detroit Lions abruptly retired, Mr. Kagel ordered him to pay $1.83 million of an $11 million signing bonus for each year he did not play.
 As an independent arbitrator and mediator, Mr. Kagel handled strikes involving newspapers, nurses, airline pilots, longshoremen, transit workers and others. In concentrated, protracted talks, he was renowned for skipping meals and even visits to the bathroom as he sat at the bargaining table.
 He wrote in his book that a good mediator never mentions that he might have made a mistake. ''A mediator has to know how to keep secrets!'' he wrote.
 In 1974, after the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union struck, Mr. Kagel was called in by the union and the association representing ship owners. He wrote on a piece of paper, ''Memorandum of Understanding,'' and gave it to Ed Flynn, the association president.
 ''What's that?'' Mr. Flynn said. Mr. Kagel replied: ''An agreement to end the strike. Sign it.'' He then handed the note to Harry Bridges, the union president, and told him to sign it.
 ''Then you can go on talking,'' he said. ''I'm hungry and I need a drink.''
 The two signed and, indeed, kept talking. Union members went to work the next day.
 Sam Kagel was born in San Francisco on Jan. 24, 1909, and grew up in Oakland, where he helped out his impoverished family by selling neckties and unloading watermelons.
 He graduated with a degree in labor economics from the University of California, Berkeley, began work on a doctorate and advised labor unions. In 1934, he helped organize a waterfront strike that turned bloody and resulted in a general strike in San Francisco. During World War II, he worked with a federal agency mobilizing workers in war industries.
 He then went to Berkeley's law school and earned a degree at age 40. He taught labor law there for 17 years. In 1948, he was appointed chief arbitrator for the longshoremen's union and the employers' group, a post he held until 2002. The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service appointed him to many jobs, including the football strike.
 In 1968, he resolved a newspaper strike in San Francisco by persuading all 15 unions to agree to a coordinated settlement, even though most had contracts with months to run. 
 Mr. Kagel married Sophia Hornstein in 1933. They separated in 1971, and she died in 2002. He is survived by their sons, John, of Palo Alto, and Peter, of San Francisco; their daughter, Katharine Kagel, of Santa Fe, N. M., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. He is also survived by his wife, Jeanne Ames.
 John Kagel, who was his father's partner in a law firm specializing in arbitration, said in 1982 that his father had an almost visceral instinct for getting to the core of a dispute. ''It's like a third baseman knowing by the crack of the bat exactly where the ball is going,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pressure from Sam Kagel, center, helped salvage the N.F.L.'s 1982 season. (Photo by Mario Suriani/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); STRIKES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ATHLETES (76%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); DRUG TESTING (60%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Labor

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



616 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Stir in G.O.P. As Ex-Senator Moves to Run

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and PATRICK HEALY; Kate Phillips contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30 

 BODY:
Former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee has taken new steps that make it clear that he is likely to run for the White House, potentially shaking up a field of candidates that has failed to strike a chord with the Republican base.
 Mr. Thompson is creating a committee that will let him begin raising money on Monday toward a full-blown national campaign, advisers said Wednesday. They hope his name recognition as an actor and radio commentator, conservative stands on issues like immigration and government spending, and strength in the South will differentiate him from the current crop of candidates.
The disclosure of his intensifying activities sent ripples through the party, with the campaigns of two of the main Republican candidates checking with their deputies in Iowa and New Hampshire to monitor any hiring or fund-raising efforts by Mr. Thompson, 64. One campaign held a brief strategy session to review poll results on Mr. Thompson, and found him well-positioned even as an unannounced candidate.
 His moves come as Republicans have failed to coalesce around a candidate, as they struggle with the war in Iraq, President Bush's unpopularity and questions about the party's ideological direction. That has created a potential opening in a campaign field that, judging by polls and other reaction, has left Republican voters wanting more. 
 ''Thompson is a credible conservative, he has a strong voting record, he has strong, almost Reagan-esque communication skills,'' said Scott Reed, who managed the presidential campaign of the Republican Bob Dole in 1996 and is unaffiliated with any campaigns. ''And like Reagan, he believes in an ideological agenda in an undiluted way. He doesn't have a bunch of qualifiers on things when he defends the Reagan years.''
 In a conference call on Tuesday, 75 to 100 Republicans who had offered to back the politician better known for his acting career were urged to raise roughly $50,000 each for the financial underpinnings of a Thompson bid that has been in the making for months. Five people closely involved in the emerging campaign discussed the plans in interviews Wednesday but asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to talk publicly about the details. 
 Participants on the call said Mr. Thompson was enthusiastic about becoming an alternative to current contenders led by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, Senator John McCain of Arizona and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts. They said he was not ready to formally announce without evidence that he could draw the necessary financial support.
 ''You have to raise money to be competitive even if you are Fred Thompson,'' said Representative Zach Wamp, a Tennessee Republican who has led an effort to draft Mr. Thompson.
 In another development on Wednesday, Mr. Thompson asked to be released from his role on ''Law & Order'' on NBC, The Associated Press reported. The show's executive producer, Dick Wolf, said Mr. Thompson had told him that he ''has not made a firm decision about his political future'' but that he was concerned about ''the creative and scheduling constraints of the upcoming season.''
 By joining the race late, Mr. Thompson may face questions about his ability to compete against the top-tier Republican candidates who have already raised at least $10 million each. He will also not participate in the Republican debate in New Hampshire on Tuesday.
 Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster and strategist who is not working for any candidate, said he was ''surprised and a little sad'' that Mr. Thompson had not declared himself a full-fledged candidate. Mr. Thompson has faced questions about his political commitment stemming from his days in the Senate.
 ''Thompson will be competing against three guys who have been running flat out for months and working their tails off for well over a year,'' Mr. Fabrizio said. ''If you're not going to get in this race and double-time on work, effort and commitment, how do you expect to win? You need to send signals that say, 'I'm here and I'm going to win.' ''
 Although Mr. Thompson planned in the coming days to create what is known as a ''testing the waters'' committee that would allow him to raise and spend money, members of Mr. Thompson's inner circle said that if the next few weeks were encouraging, he could officially enter the race as early as July.
 ''Fred Thompson is doing everything he has to do to gauge support to come to a final decision in a timely manner,'' said Mark Corallo, who has been acting as his spokesman.
 The intense interest in Mr. Thompson's trajectory reflected concern in the rival Republican camps about his possible appeal across the South, among conservative and evangelical voters, who might be attracted to his mainstream conservative stances, like opposition to abortion and strong support for states' rights.
 ''There are still a lot of undecided voters in South Carolina, and Fred Thompson comes with enormous appeal -- I'd call it Ronald Reagan-like appeal,'' said Katon Dawson, the chairman of the Republican Party in South Carolina, which holds one of the first presidential primaries. Allies of Mr. Thompson said they were confident he would attract big-name contributors and present and former office holders now supporting other candidates. But potential competitors questioned his ability to make such inroads.
 Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, disputed that Mr. Thompson might peel away conservative and evangelical voters whom the former Massachusetts governor has been courting. Mr. Madden noted that Mr. Romney might make his own gains in Thompson country when he appears Saturday as the keynote speaker at the Tennessee Republican Statesmen's Dinner in Nashville.
 ''The governor looks at these events as opportunities -- it could be a Romney crowd by the end of the night,'' Mr. Madden said.
 Anthony Carbonetti, an adviser to Mr. Giuliani, called Mr. Thompson ''a good senator who was entitled to run.'' But Mr. Carbonetti played down any concern in the Giuliani campaign that Mr. Thompson would run strongly among voters who are deeply concerned about national security and want a candidate who is socially conservative as well. Mr. Giuliani supports abortion rights.
 Mr. Thompson, who was Republican counsel to the Watergate committee, served in the Senate for eight years before retiring in 2002 and was an ally of Mr. McCain's. Mr. Thompson's support for the campaign finance measure authored by his colleague from Arizona has brought criticism from conservatives, who have also raised some questions about his anti-abortion credentials. 
 For the past few months, Mr. Thompson has been running something of a shadow campaign, courting potential contributors, giving selected interviews and speeches, weighing in on conservative blogs and lining up staff members. At the same time, he has continued on the television show and as a commentator on ABC radio as a replacement for Paul Harvey. In April, he announced that he was in remission from lymphoma, a cancer he has had for more than two years.
 The testing-the-waters group, to be formed as Friends of Fred Thompson Inc., allows him to take his political activities to another level but does not commit him entirely. It also frees him to gauge his support while leaving time for him to sort out his lucrative acting and commentating careers, which would have to be curtailed if he became a candidate or create equal-time issues.
 The committee being set up does not yet fall under the Federal Election Commission reporting requirements, but if he enters the race all financial activity would have to be reported by mid-October. 
 With that in mind, Thompson advisers said the budding campaign would follow conventional campaign rules, including a $2,300 limit per individual contribution for the primary. Allies said that on the conference call, backers were urged to collect at least $46,000, or maximum donations from 20 individuals each. Advisers said several already had larger commitments.
 ''Money is a good test of whether the interest is as real as it seems,'' one Thompson adviser said. 
 from Earth. If so, I guess Jupiter's caught the same cold because it's warming up too, like Pluto. This has led some people, not necessarily scientists, to wonder if Mars and Jupiter, nonsignatories to the Kyoto Treaty, are actually inhabited by alien S.U.V-driving industrialists who run their airconditioning at 60 degrees and refuse to recycle.'' March 22, ABC Radio GUN CONTROL ''Communities that recognize and grant Second Amendment rights to responsible adults have a significantly lower incidence of violent crime than those that do not. Whenever I've seen one of those ''Gun-Free Zone'' signs, especially outside of a school filled with our youngest and most vulnerable citizens, I've always wondered exactly who these signs are
 directed at.'' April 19, ABC Radio IMMIGRATION ''We've tried the 'comprehensive' route before to solve the illegal immigration problem. Twenty-two years and millions of illegal immigrants later, that comprehensive plan hasn't done what most Americans wanted it to do -- secure America's borders. Now Washington says the new 'comprehensive' plan will solve the problem that the last comprehensive plan didn't. We should scrap this 'comprehensive' immigration bill and the whole debate until the government can show the American people that we have secured the borders -- or at
 least made great headway.'' May 19, Townhall.com IRAQ ''There's going to be a day after Iraq. If we leave there under bad circumstances, we're going to have a haven down there for terrorists. The whole area, I'm afraid, will become nuclearized. The Sunni countries are looking at what Iran is doing. And if we can't help with stability in that part of the world, they're going to help themselves, and they're going to go nuclear, in terms of weaponry and the ability to counteract what Iran's doing. The whole region is up for grabs.'' May 1, Fox News SAME-SEX MARRIAGE ''Marriage is between a man and a woman, and I don't believe judges ought to come along and change that.'' On civil unions: ''I think that that ought to be left up to the states. I personally do not think that that is a good idea, but I believe in many of these cases where there's real dispute in the country, these things are not going to be ever resolved.'' March 11, Fox News TAXES ''President John F. Kennedy was an astute proponent of tax cuts and the proposition that lower tax rates produce economic growth. Calvin Coolidge and Ronald Reagan also understood the power of lower tax rates and managed to put through cuts that grew the U.S. economy like Kansas corn. Sadly, we just don't seem able to keep that lesson learned.'' April 14, The Wall Street Journal (pg. A16) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Senator Fred D. Thompson will begin raising money for a campaign for the Republican nomination. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. A16) Chart: ''Fred D. Thompson, in His Own Words'' ABORTION I am pro-life. I have 100 percent voting record on the pro-life issues. Intellectually, and politically, and from a policy standpoint, I've always voted that way.'' I think the Supreme Court was absolutely right in the partialbirth abortion decision.'' May 1, Fox News I think Roe vs. Wade was bad law and bad medical science. And the way to address that is through good judges. I don't think the court ought to wake up one day and make new social policy for the country.'' March 11, Fox News CLIMATE CHANGE ''Some people think that our planet is suffering from a fever. NASA says the Martian South Pole's 'ice cap' has been shrinking for three summers in a row. Maybe Mars got its fever

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); IMMIGRATION (55%)

PERSON: FRED THOMPSON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); ZACH WAMP (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARS (89%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



617 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: A Clean Start at the World Bank

 BODY:
Think how much better it would have been if President Bush had simply named Robert Zoellick to lead the World Bank two years ago instead of putting the bank, his administration and the world through the unnecessary and embarrassing Paul Wolfowitz ordeal. 
 Now that Mr. Zoellick -- far more qualified both in experience and temperament -- has been nominated for the job, we hope that he will be quickly confirmed so that the bank's professional staff can refocus its attention on the urgent jobs of combating poverty, promoting development and encouraging good governance.
We also hope that Mr. Zoellick will not shy away from the important challenge of fighting corruption, a campaign that Mr. Wolfowitz embraced but then undermined through his own ethical obtuseness, in arranging a transfer and extraordinary pay raise for his companion. Good causes should not fall victim to bad appointments, once the offending actor has been removed and a strong replacement is waiting to take charge.
 Mr. Zoellick is just about everything Mr. Wolfowitz was not. He is an able diplomat, experienced and interested in the details of development, trade and governance and widely respected in the many countries he has dealt with in his long career as a top State Department official and as America's top trade negotiator. 
 Clientitis and outright corruption have historically been real problems at the bank -- too many loans have been approved for no better reason than to keep the borrowing government happy and too few questions asked about how the bank's money has actually been used. The bank lends some $23 billion a year to poor countries, and is currently trying to raise $30 billion to finance new loans to the poorest among them. It cannot go on asking taxpayers in the developed world to underwrite its activities without demanding transparent accounting and public accountability for how its money is used. 
 Billions of the world's neediest people live in countries too poor and too undeveloped to have access to commercial lending at market rates. Globalization cannot succeed if these countries continue to be left behind. Other countries that have managed to raise average incomes need the technical and managerial expertise the bank can provide. Two precious years have been largely wasted. Mr. Zoellick cannot get to work soon enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



618 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Bush Requests $30 Billion To Fight AIDS

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30 

 BODY:
President Bush called Wednesday for Congress to spend $30 billion to fight global AIDS over the next five years, a near doubling of financing that is part of a White House effort to burnish Mr. Bush's humanitarian credentials before he meets leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized nations next week.
 The initiative, if approved, would build on a program that grew out of the president's 2003 State of the Union address, when he asked for $15 billion over five years for prevention, treatment and care of AIDS patients in developing countries. Congress approved more than $18 billion, but the program is set to expire next year. 
Mr. Bush's announcement, delivered in the White House Rose Garden, adds to what has become an unexpectedly high priority for the White House. AIDS was not a signature issue for Mr. Bush when he ran for office in 2000. But it has become one in part because the Christian conservatives who make up his political base have embraced it, and in part because Mr. Bush wants to build a legacy for the United States and a more compassionate image abroad to counter international criticism of American policies in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
 That sentiment was reflected in Mr. Bush's remarks on Wednesday. 
 ''Once again, the generosity of the American people is one of the great untold stories of our time,'' he said. ''Our citizens are offering comfort to millions who suffer, and restoring hope to those who feel forsaken.''
 AIDS advocacy organizations praised Mr. Bush for proposing the additional money, but said the plan -- which he said would provide drugs for 2.5 million patients -- did not go nearly far enough toward meeting the international community's stated goal of treating the estimated 10 million patients in developing nations. 
 ''It's a modest increase, it's important that he reaffirmed it, but we will need the next president to do more,'' said Paul Zeitz, executive director of the Global AIDS Alliance, a nonprofit advocacy group. ''We're not getting ahead of the AIDS crisis. We're tempering it.''
 Administration officials concede that point and say the White House is hoping Mr. Bush's announcement will prod other Group of 8 countries, as well as nations that have growing economies, to make spending commitments of their own.
 ''The goal of universal access isn't a United States goal, it's a global goal,'' said Mark R. Dybul, the administration's global AIDS coordinator. ''The rest of the world is going to need to respond if we are going to achieve these goals.''
 International development and human rights issues will be high on the agenda of next week's summit, but so will climate change -- an issue on which Mr. Bush finds himself at odds with his fellow G-8 leaders, notably the meeting's host, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Dan Bartlett, counselor to Mr. Bush, said the president intended to address climate change in a speech on Thursday at the United States Agency for International Development.
 But so far this week, Mr. Bush has been devoting most of his attention to human rights and poverty, issues that draw him less criticism than his stance on climate change. In an interview Monday night, a senior administration official said Mr. Bush planned to spend the week in advance of the Group of 8 conference spotlighting humanitarian issues and ''demonstrating U.S. leadership around the world.'' 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Bush announced he was imposing stiff economic sanctions on Sudan to press its government into cooperating with a United Nations peacekeeping force that is trying to end the violence in Darfur. 
 On Wednesday, in addition to the AIDS announcement, Mr. Bush named Robert B. Zoellick, his former trade representative, as his candidate to head the World Bank, calling the nominee ''a committed internationalist'' who ''wants to help struggling nations defeat poverty.'' In Thursday's speech, Mr. Bush also intends to talk about education programs in the developing world, and his initiative to combat malaria.
 The AIDS initiative, which is likely to generate bipartisan support in Congress, would cover federal spending for the 2009 to 2013 fiscal years, meaning the vast majority of the money would be spent after Mr. Bush left office. To promote it, the White House is sending Laura Bush to Africa next month.
 ''She and I share a passion,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We believe that to whom much is given, much is required.''
 The United Nations reports that there are nearly 40 million people worldwide living with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS; last year three million died from their infections. In his announcement in 2003, Mr. Bush said he was committed to offering treatment for two million H.I.V. patients by 2008. But so far, he said, the program, called the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, has paid for treatment for just 1.1 million people in 15 nations. 
 Advocates complain that the new goal, bringing the number of patients treated to 2.5 million, is not that much more ambitious than the old one. ''By 2013 there will be 12 million people that urgently need medicines,'' Mr. Zeitz said.
 The White House, however, said that in addition to providing treatment for 2.5 million, the new money would prevent 12 million new infections and provide care for more than 12 million people. 
 Mr. Bartlett said the president was convinced America's image in the world would improve because of it.
 ''I've heard him talk about this is a part of America that gets overlooked,'' he said, ''and that over time, people will look back and say, 'At a point in time where America may have been under scrutiny for other reasons, look at the significant contribution they have made. They saved more lives than anybody could have imagined.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: After calling on Congress yesterday to approve more money to fight AIDS in the developing world, President Bush walked back to the Oval Office with 4-year-old Baron Mosima Loyiso Tantoh, whose mother has H.I.V. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIDS POLICY (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007



619 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A Visit From Bush Delights Some New Jersey Republicans, but Others Steer Clear

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: EDISON, N.J., May 30 

 BODY:
New Jersey on Wednesday welcomed a prominent politician who has played a major role in helping the Democratic Party win the last two statewide elections by comfortable margins: President Bush.
 With his approval ratings at a record-low 25 percent in one recent state poll, Mr. Bush has been treated as a political punching bag by many a Democrat in recent local and statewide campaigns. He has served as such a potent foil, in fact, that the last two Republicans seeking statewide office -- Douglas R. Forrester for governor in 2005 and Thomas H. Kean Jr. for United States senator last year -- attributed their losses to Mr. Bush's unpopularity.
But there are no statewide elections this year, just state legislative races hinging mainly on local issues, like property taxes and education. So the state Republican Party, desperate to erase the Democrats' financial and electoral advantages, gambled that the money could do more good than the messenger could do harm. 
 Mr. Bush did not disappoint. A crowd of 700 paid as much as $5,000 per ticket (a bargain compared with the maximum of $10,000 at Laura Bush's fund-raiser for Mr. Kean last summer). Speaking in a cavernous hall at the New Jersey Convention and Exposition Center here, Mr. Bush displayed a bit of self-deprecating humor initially, saying: ''Last time I was in Jersey, there was a lot of heckling as well -- good heckling.''
 With people chanting ''Four more years!'' Mr. Bush proceeded to focus mostly on Iraq and terrorism in a 27-minute speech.
 ''I know that many people are deeply concerned about Iraq, and so am I,'' he said. ''You see the carnage on your TV screens, and you wonder whether or not success is possible. I want to remind you that there has been pretty startling progress made.''
 Mr. Bush, defending his decision to push for an increase in the number of troops in Iraq, also criticized Congressional Democrats. ''No matter what the opinions of people in Washington may be, when we've got our troops in harm's way, they need all our support,'' he said. ''This is hard work, but it is necessary work for the security of this country.''
 It was the first time, according to state Republican officials, that Mr. Bush was in New Jersey for a political event since 2005, when he attended a gathering promoting his plan to revamp Social Security. It was his first political fund-raiser in the state since 2003, when he attended an event held on behalf of a Republican who did end up winning: himself.
 Wednesday's event raised at least $675,000 for the state party. That should help it compete more effectively in this year's races for the State Assembly and Senate, both of which are controlled by the Democrats. So far, Republican candidates have raised $7.5 million, while their Democratic counterparts have raised $17 million, according to recent financial reports.
 When asked earlier in the day about the president's visit, the state's Democratic standard-bearer, Gov. Jon S. Corzine, said simply that ''politics will be politics, and he's got a job to do, and so do I.'' He did say, however, that Mr. Bush had been ''very thoughtful'' after Mr. Corzine's serious car accident on April 12.
 ''I hope he has a fine stay in this state,'' Mr. Corzine said at a news conference outside his office in Trenton. ''I don't wish him well on his fund-raising efforts.'' 
 But other Democrats could barely contain their enthusiasm. An anti-Bush rally a couple of miles away attracted about 200 people, including Representative Frank Pallone Jr., State Senator Barbara Buono and Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, the state's Democratic chairman.
 Inside the convention center, Mr. Bush talked confidently about his party's chances of winning legislative elections this fall, and about laying the foundation for a Republican presidential victory next year.
 Mr. Bush also talked about his belief in tax cuts for long-term economic growth. And he criticized the new Congressional majorities for submitting a budget that struck him as a ''throwback to the old days.''
 ''You can't sate their appetite for spending your money,'' he said. ''It's important for us to make sure those tax cuts we passed are permanent.''
 For all of the political love on display, it was almost more interesting to note who did not attend than who did. Former Gov. Thomas H. Kean (father of the Senate candidate) was not there. Nor was former Gov. Christie Whitman. Nor was Mr. Forrester. Nor were there many moderate Republican legislators. 
 The most prominent New Jersey Republican officials on hand were the party's top leaders in the Legislature: Leonard Lance, Senate minority leader, and Alex DeCroce, Assembly minority leader.
 The event also played out without a hitch, in contrast to what happened last year when Vice President Dick Cheney traveled to Newark for a fund-raiser on behalf of Mr. Kean, the Senate candidate.
 Mr. Kean was tardy after taking the usually traffic-clogged Route 1 from Trenton rather than the speedier New Jersey Turnpike. That generated speculation that while Mr. Kean wanted the money that was raised ($400,000), he did not want to be photographed with the vice president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); TERRORISM (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

 
