

601 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Goals Reached, Donor on Right Closes Up Shop

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28 

 BODY:
Without it, the Federalist Society might not exist, nor its network of 35,000 conservative lawyers. Economic analysis might hold less sway in American courts. The premier idea factories of the right, from the Hoover Institution to the Heritage Foundation, would have lost millions of dollars in core support. And some classics of the conservative canon would have lost their financier, including Allan Bloom's lament of academic decline and Charles Murray's attacks on welfare. 
 Part Medici, part venture capitalist, the John M. Olin Foundation has spent three decades financing the intellectual rise of the right and exciting the envy of the left. Now the foundation is closing its doors. In telling the organization to spend his money within a generation, John M. Olin, a Midwestern ammunition and chemical magnate, sought to maximize his fortune's influence and keep it from falling into hostile -- that is, liberal -- hands.
 In the budget offices of the right, the loss of Olin, though long anticipated, is bringing a stab of anxiety, as total annual giving of up to $20 million disappears from policy organizations, journals and academic aeries. Yet it is a measure of the foundation's success that the anxiety has not been greater. While a generation ago just three or four major foundations operated on the right, today's conservatism has no shortage of institutions, donors or brio. 
 At a recent farewell dinner in New York that drew a crowd of prominent thinkers and doers, James Piereson, the longtime director of Olin, recounted the 1970's threats that the foundation set out to address: economic decline, urban disorder and Soviet expansionism. By contrast, Mr. Piereson said, critics now say ''the United States is too powerful'' and its people ''too proud.'' 
 ''This,'' Mr. Piereson added wryly, ''is an exchange that John Olin would have gladly accepted.'' 
 Feeling outmatched in the war of ideas, liberal groups have spent years studying conservative foundations the way Pepsi studies Coke, searching for trade secrets. They say that Olin and its allies have pushed an agenda that spread wealth at the top and insecurity below, and that left market excesses unchecked -- and that they have done so with estimable skill. 
 ''The right has done a marvelous job,'' said Rob Stein, a former official in the Clinton administration who has formed an organization, the Democracy Alliance, to develop rival machinery on the left. ''They are strategic, coordinated, disciplined and well financed. And they're well within their rights in a democracy to have done what they've done.''
 Mr. Piereson says that one Olin secret is plain to see: its interest in abstract ideas, removed from day-to-day politics. With conservatives in power, he worries that foundations and donors will focus too heavily on ''public policy sorts of things,'' like school choice or anti-tax campaigns; by contrast, Mr. Piereson spent millions on the Olin Center for Inquiry Into the Theory and Practice of Democracy at the University of Chicago, where a typical conference examined the legacy of Rousseau. 
 As a result, Mr. Piereson is spending his last months in office promoting a route to political influence -- intellectual armament -- as unlikely as it has been effective. ''The ideas have to be tended to,'' Mr. Piereson said. ''Only after that can you tend to the policies.''
 John M. Olin knew the value of ammunition. In 1892, the year he was born, his father started a mining explosives company in East Alton, Ill., that soon began making bullets. Together, they built a manufacturing behemoth that sold 15 billion rounds during World War II and went on to make cellophane, metals, rocket fuel, paper, pharmaceuticals and sporting goods. An avid sportsman, Mr. Olin bred horses, hunted and fished; according to a biography to be published by Encounter this fall, ''A Gift of Freedom: How the John M. Olin Foundation Changed America'' by John J. Miller, he sent boxes of salmon to a favorite politician, Richard M. Nixon.
 In 1969 when armed students took over a building at his alma mater, Cornell University, Mr. Olin was shaken. Four years later, past his 80th birthday, he began pouring time and money into the small foundation he created 20 years earlier, saying he wanted to preserve the free enterprise system that had made his own wealth possible.
 Mr. Olin and his wife, Evelyn, gave the foundation about $145 million; riding two bull markets since his death in 1982, it has given out about $380 million. About $6 million is left and will be awarded before the doors of its office in New York close in November.
 With William E. Simon, a former Treasury secretary, as its first president, the foundation quickly focused on intellectual elites. ''The basic instincts of the American people were conservative, but the intellectuals are moving in an opposite direction,'' said Mr. Piereson, who joined the foundation in 1981 and became its director four years later. ''Our job was to show the American people why they were right.'' 
 Over time, Olin gave more than $9 million each to the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute, Washington institutions that fight for causes like lower taxes and less government regulation. Yet it also financed more esoteric pursuits like The New Criterion, a literary journal where typical fare is a long attack on the Modern Language Association, a society of English professors.
 ''We weren't just trying to defend capitalism,'' Mr. Piereson said, but to defend a broader free society ''along lines that included religion, history, literature and the arts.''
 Mr. Piereson said he had few specific expectations when he helped a little-known political theorist, Allan Bloom, create the democracy center in Chicago. But after a few years of high-brow seminars, Mr. Bloom wrote ''The Closing of the American Mind,'' which topped best-seller lists in 1987 and inspired the continuing assault on campus liberalism. 
 The foundation's staff was similarly surprised when a $25,000 grant to an obscure social scientist, Charles Murray, helped revolutionize the welfare debate. Conservatives had long attacked poor people as abusing welfare programs. Mr. Murray's 1984 book, ''Losing Ground,'' attacked the programs as abusing the poor by diverting them from work and marriage. By equating cutting with caring, Mr. Murray helped conservatives lay claim to the mantle of compassion as they pushed tough new welfare laws.
 Much of Olin's giving has centered on law schools, reflecting Mr. Piereson's belief that they disproportionately shape public life. A $20,000 grant in 1982 helped law students organize a conference, and one of the most influential legal groups of the 20th century emerged, the Federalist Society.
 The society now has chapters at almost every law school, and a swarm of alumni in the Bush administration dedicated to what the group calls limited government and judicial restraint. ''It's not clear whether we would have existed without Olin's support,'' said Eugene Meyer, the society's president.
 Even more influential has been Olin's support of the law and economics movement, which has transformed legal thinking. Its supporters say that economic tools, like cost-benefit analysis, bring rationality to the law, while critics warn that the focus on economics can cheat notions like fairness that defy quantification.
 Olin has spent $68 million on law and economics programs, including those at Harvard, Yale, Stanford and the University of Chicago. ''I saw it as a way into the law schools -- I probably shouldn't confess that,'' Mr. Piereson said. ''Economic analysis tends to have conservatizing effects.''
 The foundation has had its disappointments. Olin spent more than $500,000 each at Duke and the University of Pennsylvania for programs in law and economics that it discontinued, saying they had failed to have a sufficient impact. And not every donation has gone toward erudition.
 A $5,000 grant helped the journalist David Brock write his 1993 book, ''The Real Anita Hill,'' in which he elaborated on his incendiary charges that impugned the character of Ms. Hill, the critic of Justice Clarence Thomas. Breaking with the right, Mr. Brock later apologized.
 Yet even Olin's ideological critics envy the foundation's record. ''Their grant-making strategy has been much more intelligent and effective than what we typically see on the left,'' said Jeff Krehely of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, a liberal group that monitors charitable spending.
 One of Olin's distinctive qualities is its steadfastness; it has financed favored groups like the Federalist Society for more than 20 years. ''They don't follow fads,'' Mr. Krehely said. ''It shows they have clear goals.'' 
 Other major conservative donors include the Sarah Scaife Foundation in Pittsburgh, the Smith Richardson Foundation in Westport, Conn., and the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation in Milwaukee. Comparing them with an equal number of liberal foundations, including Ford and MacArthur, Mr. Piereson found that the right spent $100 million a year to the left's $1.2 billion. ''You don't have to have a lot of money to drive the intellectual debate,'' Mr. Piereson said. 
 Although Olin is bowing out, the conservative movement is growing. There are conservative policy research organizations operating in 42 states; grass-roots organizers working on issues like tort reform and tax relief; and groups monitoring liberal journalists, professors, politicians and clerics.
 ''The great achievements of conservative philanthropy are just beginning,'' said Adam Meyerson, president of the Philanthropy Roundtable, a Washington group (and Olin grant recipient) that advises conservative donors.
 Yet no group is poised to fill Olin's niche as a benefactor of big ideas. Hoping to encourage one, Mr. Meyerson organized the dinner in New York to celebrate Olin's achievements, prompting coverage in National Review, The New York Sun and The New York Observer. In the last year, Mr. Piereson has published essays in The Wall Street Journal and Commentary magazine, summoning donors to the ''battle of ideas.''
 But ideas can be a tough sell. ''It can take 20 years to have a serious impact,'' Mr. Meyerson said, and many donors want quicker success.
 As for ideas, Mr. Piereson has a new one. He is hoping to start an initiative to counter liberal influence in academia. Liberal academics ''don't like American capitalism, American culture, and they don't like American history -- they see it as a history of oppression,'' he said. ''There are some people who are prepared to spend large sums of money to address this problem.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugene Meyer of the Federalist Society said his group might not exist without the John M. Olin Foundation. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 26)Chart: ''A Legacy Of Conservatism''Since the death of John M. Olin in 1982, the foundation he created has continued financing the intellectual rise of the right. Now, according to his wishes, the foundation is closing its doors after a generation. Here is a look at some of the most influential beneficiaries of the foundation.William E. Simon -- After serving as Treasury secretary in the 1970's, he was the foundation's president from 1977 until his death in 2000.James Piereson -- A former political science professor, he joined the foundation in 1981 and has been executive director since 1985.AUTHOR RESEARCH -- The foundation has supported the work of several conservative thinkers who wrote influential books, including:''Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980,'' by Charles Murray (1984)''The Closing of the American Mind,'' by Allan Bloom (1987)''Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus,'' by Dinesh DSouza (1991)''The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order,'' by Samuel P. Huntington (1996)RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS -- The foundation has been a major supporter of many of the most wellknown conservative and libertarian organizations, giving more than $9 million each to the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute.American Enterprise Institute, WashingtonThe Heritage Foundation, WashingtonManhattan Institute for Policy Research, New YorkThe Federalist Society, WashingtonHoover Institution, Stanford University, CaliforniaProject for the New American Century, WashingtonCato Institute, WashingtonACADEMIC PROGRAMS -- The foundation has spent about $68 million to support law and economics programs at several universities, including gifts and pledges of $18 million to Harvard Law School for the John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics and Business. The movement's supporters say the evaluation of laws should include their economic impact.Harvard Law SchoolThe University of Chicago The Law SchoolYale Law SchoolStanford Law School John M. Olin Program in Law and EconomicsVirginia Law SchoolThe New Criterion arts criticism journal, edited by Hilton KramerGrants paid by the John M. Olin FoundationIn millionsGraph tracks grants paid by the John M. Olin Foundation since 1982.2005 is an estimate(Sources by John M. Olin Foundation
 The Philanthropy Roundtable)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); POLITICS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CHARITIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CLOSINGS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (60%) United States Politics and Government; Law Schools; Philanthropy; Conservatism (US Politics); United States Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (84%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%) Olin, John M, Foundation

PERSON: Jason Deparle; John M Olin; James Piereson

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



602 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN ICONS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Famed for What's Up Above, Fixing What's Down Below

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
SOMETIME in the late 1980's, when the Coney Island parachute jump amusement ride stood idle, rusting and forlorn in a dirty lot by a downtrodden beach, a reporter was said to have remarked, ''It is scarier now to stand under it than it ever was to ride it.'' 
 That was a long time ago, during the legendary ride's lost years, before the city's Economic Development Corporation completed a $5 million restoration of the tower in 2003. And the reporter's remark, recorded by an engineering student for a thesis that was republished by bayridge.com, a community Web site, seemed like ancient history last week. It was then that the Coney Island Development Corporation, charged with promoting business development in the neighborhood, announced the winner of the international competition it sponsored with the nonprofit Van Alen Institute to design a shopping and visitor center that would sit at the base of the jump. 
 The contest, part of the city's wider plans to turn Coney Island's worn stretch of rides and concession stands into a glossy recreational destination, attracted more than 850 entries from as far as China and Australia. Fifty-four came from Brooklyn. The winning design, from a team in London, features a 30-foot matrix of light bulbs and translucent walls, wrapped around a souvenir shop, an exhibition space, a bar and a restaurant.
 Joshua Sirefman, president of the local development corporation, said last week that the new center, called the Parachute Pavilion, was intended to strengthen the entertainment district, from the parachute jump and KeySpan Park at the western end to the New York Aquarium in the east. The plan would not involve reopening the jump as a ride, but it would return the structure, once one of Coney Island's most popular attractions, to a central place after a history of ups and downs.
 The 262-foot-tall tower, originally designed to train military paratroopers, opened as a ride at the 1939 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, Queens. After the fair, the owners of Steeplechase Park bought it for $150,000 and moved it to Coney Island. The park shut down in 1964, and the parachute jump stood unused on an increasingly desolate stretch of land. The Landmarks Preservation Commission's decision to designate the tower a landmark in 1977 was overturned, but the status was restored in 1989, and it stuck. 
 Through it all, the tower has become one of the city's most recognizable tall structures outside Manhattan, known in some quarters as Brooklyn's Eiffel Tower. 
 All that history was daunting for contest entrants. ''Being that it's next to the parachute jump, which is an international icon, it's a really interesting design challenge,'' Mr. Sirefman said, ''because it has to be able to stand on its own and also work in the larger context.'' JAKE MOONEY


GRAPHIC: Photos: The winning design for a new visitor center for the parachute jump (right and above right) features translucent walls and a 30-foot matrix of light bulbs. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKYDIVING (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HISTORY (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (61%) Area Planning and Renewal; Amusement and Theme Parks; Parachute Jump (Coney Island)

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Coney Island Development Corp

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (54%); NG (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%)

PERSON: Jake Mooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Coney Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



603 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: That Municipal Bond May Not Be Tax-Free

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
JOSH GONZE, a municipal bond credit analyst at Thornburg Investment Management, was just as surprised as other investors when the alternative minimum tax caught up to him and some of the so-called tax-exempt municipal bonds in his personal portfolio suddenly became taxable.
 ''It just crept up behind me all of a sudden,'' Mr. Gonze said ruefully. 
 The A.M.T.'s bite is painful. A yield of 4.3 percent on a 30-year municipal bond that is subject to the tax -- say, one that finances an airport -- has an aftertax yield of 3.1 percent when subjected to the 28 percent A.M.T. 
 Although the A.M.T. was intended from its start in 1969 to make the very rich pay some taxes, inflation is causing it to snare more and more people with much smaller incomes. Unless there is a tax adjustment, the impact will be startling in the 2006 tax year, as millions of unsuspecting investors with modest incomes are afflicted by it.
 What's an investor to do? Ask a lot of questions before buying individual municipal bonds or municipal mutual funds. 
 The answer is not simply to jump automatically to the new non-A.M.T. funds being marketed by the mutual fund industry. Many of those funds avoid bonds that could be subject to the alternative minimum tax, but others still buy them. And in some cases, investors may be better off in funds with A.M.T. bonds. 
 The class of municipal bonds that is subject to the alternative tax is called private activity bonds. This class, which accounted for about 7 percent of total muni issuance last year, includes bonds that usually benefit projects like single-family housing and airports that have corporate rather than government backing. The bonds are popular because they offer yields that are as much as a half a percentage point higher than those of other comparable municipal bonds.
 Another concern for investors is that these bonds could become much less attractive, resulting in price declines and capital losses, if the A.M.T.'s spread is not slowed.
 Some mutual funds state on their Web sites whether they hold bonds subject to the A.M.T., but many funds don't. David E. Hamlin, team leader of the tax-exempt income group at Putnam Investments, said that the industry needed to improve disclosures. Putnam, he said, was researching enhancements. 
 The name of a fund may not be a useful guide. Funds that call themselves tax exempt or tax free can still keep up to 20 percent of their assets in bonds subject to the alternative minimum tax.
 T. Rowe Price has five broad municipal funds that are called tax-free, but three of them still hold bonds with A.M.T. exposure.
 Other funds are truly A.M.T.-free, like two in the Oppenheimer fund family, but they can have large exposures to junk bonds that bring in higher yields but make the fund riskier. Still others, like the Oppenheimer Rochester National Municipals fund, have enormous exposure to A.M.T. bonds. Last year, more than 40 percent of that fund's return was subject to the A.M.T. 
 Some fund companies don't trumpet their non-A.M.T. offerings. Thornburg's Limited Term National and Intermediate New York funds are 100 percent A.M.T.-free but give no such hint in their names. 
 It may be of some solace that municipal bonds are especially attractive at the moment. As of last Thursday, the yield on 10-year, tax-exempt triple-A municipal bonds was 86.3 percent of the yield on taxable 10-year Treasuries. That means someone in the top tax bracket of 35 percent has a taxable equivalent yield of 5.42 percent on such a muni bond, compared with 4.08 percent for the 10-year Treasury note. 
 Why is the alternative minimum tax, which blocks the use of many popular income tax deductions, reaching so many more people? There are two reasons: the A.M.T. is not indexed to inflation, and President Bush's tax cuts have lowered what people must pay under the regular income tax. 
 If there are no changes in the law, millions of taxpayers will be in for an A.M.T. surprise in the 2006 tax year, according to a study by Leonard E. Burman and Jeffrey Rohaly of the Urban Institute and William G. Gale of the Brookings Institution. The number will surge that year unless Congress extends an adjustment that has slowed the spread of the A.M.T. for two years. 
 Among those with incomes of $50,000 to $200,000, some 30 percent will be subject to the A.M.T. in 2006, the study said, up from only 2.5 percent in 2005. That is 14.7 million filers, up from 1.2 million. While most tax-exempt interest is paid to those with incomes of at least $200,000, more than 35 percent went to people with incomes of $50,000 to $200,000 in 2003, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
 Mutual fund families are taking different approaches to shielding investors. 
 Putnam has shifted strategies. It stopped buying A.M.T. bonds in a national muni bond fund in late 2003 and changed the name to the A.M.T. Free Insured Municipal fund last November. Mr.. Hamlin of Putnam said that portfolio managers had also reduced the A.M.T. exposure in Putnam's other national and state muni bond funds. Bonds subject to the A.M.T. now run from 1 percent to 12.5 percent of assets in these funds.
 AT T. Rowe Price, Hugh McGuirk, head of municipal bonds, said the company's portfolio managers had reduced their exposure to A.M.T. bonds to make the funds more marketable. But managers are free to buy more A.M.T. bonds. 
 And some investors, he said, would be better off paying the A.M.T. For example, a wealthy New York City resident would have had a return of $406 after paying the A.M.T. on 2004 earnings from a $10,000 investment in the T. Rowe Price New York Bond fund, which had 10.1 percent of its assets in bonds subject to the alternative tax. The return from the same investment in the T. Rowe Price Tax Free Income fund, which had no A.M.T. exposure, was only $395, even though that fund's yield was 4.9 percent higher. 
 Nuveen Investments has five closed-end mutual funds that are A.M.T.-free, but it buys bonds subject to the alternative tax in other funds when managers think that the extra yield is worthwhile. William Fitzgerald, head of fixed-income investing at Nuveen, said the firm was betting that Congress and the Bush administration would take action to reduce the spread of the alternative tax. Nuveen therefore is not reducing its A.M.T. holdings in other funds. 
 Mr. Hamlin said Putnam was not betting on a Washington fix for the A.M.T. ''It's very difficult to make a strategic bet on political outcomes,'' he said. That's good advice for municipal bond investors.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''When the A.M.T. Is in Your Favor''In choosing municipal bond funds, investors need to look carefully at both fund returns and potential exposure to the alternative minimum tax. In this example, a resident of New York City would be better off buying a fund holding some bonds that are subject to the A.M.T.How a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: ReturnsT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: $439N.Y. City resident: $439T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: $418How a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: Amount subject to the A.M.T.T. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: ExemptN.Y. City resident: ExemptT. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: $42How a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: A.M.T. @ 28%T. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: n.a.N.Y. City resident: n.a.T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: $12How a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: Federal taxT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: ExemptN.Y. City resident: ExemptT. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: ExemptHow a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: New York State taxT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: $28N.Y. City resident: $28T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: ExemptHow a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: New York City taxT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: ExemptN.Y. City resident: $16T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: ExemptHow a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: Total federal, state and local taxT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: $28N.Y. City resident: $44T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: 0How a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: Total taxT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: $28N.Y. City resident: $44T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: $12How a $10,000 investment fared in 2004 in: Total returns after taxesT. Rowe Price Tax Free Income FundN.Y. State resident: $411N.Y. City resident: $395T. Rowe Price New York Bond FundN.Y. City or State resident: $406Note: Data assumes that the taxpayer is married filing jointly with a taxable income greater than $500,000. Tax on the Tax-Free Income fund returns is reduced for holdings of tax-exempt New York bonds.(Source by T. Rowe Price)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); AIRPORTS (70%) Taxation; Government Bonds; Alternative Minimum Tax; Tax Exemptions

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



604 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Finally, Progress in Restoring Bridgeport's Grandeur

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn. 

 BODY:
FOR years, Bridgeport has struggled to throw off the yoke of poverty, crime and corruption. But now, with nearly 25 percent of the historic downtown district about to undergo a major rehabilitation, developers are champing at the bit to enter an emerging mixed-use market that, despite being situated in the richest county in Connecticut, suffers from an image problem.
 Projects that are about to get under way will add hundreds of housing units and thousands of square feet of redeveloped commercial and retail space. ''I've had at least a half dozen developers tell me, 'If this gets going, we're coming in,''' said Kevin Gremse, director of the National Development Council, a nonprofit community and economic development organization. ''And it's about to get going.''
 For the better part of a decade, Mr. Gremse has been involved in Bridgeport's many attempts to rehabilitate itself, first as a city economic development specialist and then at the National Development Council. But it wasn't until several years ago, when he met Eric Anderson, a New York City developer who founded Urban Green Builders, which focuses on urban in-fill projects using environmentally friendly technologies, that the ball finally got rolling. Having learned of Mr. Anderson's mixed-use projects in places like East Harlem and the Bronx, Mr. Gremse asked him to look at Bridgeport. 
 ''I was just giddy,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''I'm getting the tour and everyone's talking about what a disaster it is, and I look around and say, 'Sign me up.' You just don't get many opportunities to have an impact on an entire city.'' 
 Mr. Anderson was enticed not only by the challenge of redeveloping a distressed urban area but also by a complex and powerful new financial tool, called New Market Tax Credits, brought to the table by Mr. Gremse. The redevelopment of Bridgeport is one of the first major projects in the country to take advantage of this program, which was established in the waning days of the Clinton administration.
 The credits are parceled out to community development groups like the National Development Council. These groups then dispense them to developers like Mr. Anderson who are willing to undertake projects in distressed areas. Mr. Gremse estimates that the total cost of the project is $110 million, and up to a third will be covered by New Market Tax Credits coupled with historic preservation incentives and other subsidies. 
 ''This project is recreating the marketplace,'' Mr. Gremse said. ''And that would be very difficult to do without these credits.'' 
 The four-phase project includes 23 buildings and empty lots. Rehabilitation will start in June on an Art Deco bank tower on Main Street, vacant for nearly 15 years, which has a flooded basement, rusting vaults and peeling paint. It will be combined with three neighboring buildings and turned into 118 apartments and 50,000 square feet of retail and office space. 
 One block down Main Street is Phase 2, where a historic glass-roofed arcade-style mall will be restored to its 1889 condition. The dark arcade, mostly empty except for a smattering of hip-hop clothing and music stores, will have 23 housing units and 35,000 square feet of commercial and art studio space. Next door will be another rehabbed historic building, a former hotel dating back to 1835; it will have 36 apartments and 70,000 square feet of commercial space. 
 Later, three more buildings will be redeveloped and three new ones built, providing almost 300 units of housing. The first three phases will all be under way by the end of the year. Phase 4, to begin in 2006, will include eight more mixed-use buildings, both historic and new construction. 
 ''We're starting with the historic structures, so as we work through the phases, the architecture will become more and more visible,'' said Craig Tooman, a principal architect of the firm Cutsogeorge, Tooman & Allen, which doubled its staff to handle the Bridgeport project. ''The new construction will meld a modern aesthetic with the late-1800's commercial aesthetic.'' 
 To manage such a large redevelopment effort, which Urban Green Builders had originally undertaken on its own, Mr. Anderson recently brought in the Ginsburg Development Companies, a Westchester developer, as a joint venture partner. ''Bridgeport has had a checkered history,'' said Martin Ginsburg, the concern's president. ''But the city has good bones.'' 
 In addition to the historic architecture, he said, it has good train and ferry service, a minor-league baseball park and access to Long Island Sound on a two-mile-long beach. ''It could be a great city,'' Mr. Ginsburg said, ''but it lacks a residential base.''
 Both developers believe that reasonably priced housing will initially be in high demand by people who commute to work in Stamford and Norwalk but can't afford housing in those cities. 
 There are plenty of indications that the demand is there. The local developers Garfield and Rebecca Spencer of First National Development bought an abandoned industrial building south of downtown six years ago for $800,000 and converted it into condos. All 53 units created in the first phase have been sold and most are occupied. In a second phase, 10 more units have also sold out but will not be completed until September. 
 The Spencers have since begun the nearby Jefferson School Lofts project, with 21 loft condominium units, and the Cherry Street Lofts at the west end of downtown, for another 150 units.
 Another local developer, Jason Epstein of E/N Properties, is converting an old office building next to the downtown courthouse into 40 luxury condos. Even with a rooftop garden, an upscale health club and better retailing, the condos will sell for considerably less than anything comparable in Fairfield County. Mr. Epstein said a 1,000-square-foot unit in his building would command about $250,000, as opposed to $450,000 elsewhere in the area. ''Everybody is being squeezed out of Norwalk and Stamford,'' he said. 
 This week, there will be the grand opening of the Sterling Market Lofts building, formerly a Read Department store. It has been converted into live-work artists' apartments by Artspace Projects Inc., a developer based in Minneapolis. The opening will showcase the art and music of its residents, whose incomes had to be within certain limits. All 61 units have been taken, at rents of $294 to $995 a month. 
 Michael Micinilio, born and raised in Bridgeport, is a sculptor and painter whose artwork has been put on hold while he finishes his Sterling Market loft space with wide plank wood flooring and terra cotta tiles. ''We're the cornerstone of revitalization in Bridgeport,'' Mr. Micinilio said. ''Local businesses are excited about us.'' 
 Philip Kuchma is a local business owner who is indeed excited about the new residents of the Sterling Market Lofts as well as the buzz that has been generated in the development community. As the owner of a series of properties called Bijou Square, Mr. Kuchma is rehabbing a historic theater complex that will have a restaurant and cafe started by a group including Phil Hartman, an owner of the Two Boots restaurants in New York. Above will be a party space in a grand old ballroom, and across the street will be eight new housing units. 
 As a fixture in Bridgeport for most of his life, Mr. Kuchma was used to being a lonely developer, undertaking small projects one at a time. Now he finds himself competing with other developers to purchase properties. On the other hand, Mr. Kuchma said, ''I'm getting calls from people out of the blue asking to invest in Bijou Square.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DOWNTOWN REVIVAL -- Craig Tooman, left, the architect, and Eric Anderson, one of the developers, inside an old bank building on Main Street whose vault is at right. Below, the old Bijou theater is being renovated as part of the rehabilitation of Bijou Square, above. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HISTORY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); GREEN BUILDING (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (51%) Area Planning and Renewal; Tax Credits; Historic Buildings and Sites; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Housing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (91%) National Development Council

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain; Eric Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Bridgeport (Conn); Bridgeport (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



605 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: A Title That's Not As Boss as It Looks

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
WILLIAM SCHULZ forgives people who think he has moved up in the world when they see his business card. It now says ''chief'' where once it read ''vice president.''
 But Mr. Schulz, a corporate communications official for Amtrak in Washington, was not promoted. Instead, when a new directive at the railroad reduced the number of vice presidents to 10 from about 85, Mr. Schulz wasn't considered senior enough to keep the title. So he became the chief of his department, in the process picking up the hottest title around. 
 In companies large and small and organizations of all sorts, everybody, it seems, is the chief of something. It is not uncommon for companies that once had one or two chiefs -- a chief executive and a chief financial officer, say -- now to have 8 or 10. 
 ''Everyone's a chief, and every chief has chiefs reporting to them,'' said Jill Konrath, a consultant in St. Paul who teaches salespeople how to approach big companies. ''So it's hard to figure out who's the head honcho and who's reporting to them. You can't tell what a person does by their titles at all anymore.''
 Molson Coors Brewing Company has at least 15 executives with chief in their titles, including a global chief business development officer and a global chief synergies officer. 
 Radio Shack has a chief channel operations officer, a chief supply chain officer and, until December, had a chief organizational enabling services officer.
 The big advertising agencies Y&R and JWT have chief strategy officers. Even Goldman Sachs, where just a decade ago the highest-ranking members of the firm were known simply as partners, now has a few chiefs, including a chief learning officer. 
 ''There are fashions in titles,'' said Joy McGovern, a regional vice president of Right Management Consultants in New York. The proliferation of chiefs, she said, ''just happens to be the fashion of the moment.''
 Title inflation is a phenomenon that thrives in periods when wages are growing slowly, employment experts said. 
 ''It's easier to give somebody a fancier-sounding title than to give them a real bump in authority or pay,'' said Marc Cenedella, the president and chief executive of TheLadders.com, an executive job search site. ''That's what any bureaucratic organization tends to do over time.''
 Those fancy-sounding titles can be real tongue twisters. Take chief organizational enabling services officer, the post retired by Radio Shack. A spokesman for the company declined to explain the genesis of that position or why the company eliminated it last year.
 Because highfalutin handles invite scrutiny -- just what does a chief talent officer do, anyway? -- chief titles should be handed out sparingly, said David Meer, a partner in Marakon Associates, a management consulting firm in New York. For instance, he said, some companies that are struggling to increase revenue have created a chief growth officer. But seeing that appellation on a door, people may wonder what the C.E.O. is doing.
 Mr. Meer's title in his previous job was worldwide chairman, he said, ''but what I was chair of was a 60-person group.'' He said he prefers being called a partner because ''it's short and to the point.''
 In the late 1990's executives at Internet startups dreamed up a raft of fanciful titles for themselves. Jeffrey C. Taylor, who founded Monster.com, a recruiting and placement service, still proudly identifies himself as chief monster and calls his assistant, Kaycee Langford, the head diva and their receptionist, Maureen Hopkins, director of the first impression. But most of the whimsical titles from that era are now as defunct as the companies they rode in on. 
 ''The quirky titles from the dot-com boom have gone away,'' Mr. Cenedella said. Looking through his listing of 80,000 jobs, he said, he did not find any openings for chief evangelists, a title that once flourished in the Silicon Valley. But he had plenty of other listings for chiefs, including a chief diversity officer. He said he had recently seen a posting for a chief revenue enhancement officer.
 Mr. Taylor, who said his role is to ''carry the culture and the brand'' of Monster, said the trend toward chiefs reflects a significant change at the top of some companies. Instead of having a pyramid structure that narrows the herd of rising executives to a few, he said, these companies are broad-shouldered, grooming more people for the top by rotating them from job to job across different disciplines. 
 ''Today it isn't about the pyramid, it's much more about lateral movement,'' Mr. Taylor said. 
 In the traditional pecking order, executives sought upgrades to stay ahead of the competition. Once there were dozens of vice presidents, some demanded to be senior vice presidents. When that rung became crowded, senior vice presidents clamored to be executive presidents.
 Bankers now joke about how everybody is a vice president, and on Wall Street most brokers are vice presidents of some sort. To reduce confusion, Smith Barney, which now has four kinds of vice president, is considering phasing out at least one of them.
 Ms. Konrath, who calls herself chief sales officer, said she remembers when vice presidents commanded respect and had the authority to spend large sums.
 But now ''there's a lot of vice presidents that have minimal ability to commit resources,'' she said. ''For anything over $2,000, they have get approval from their bosses.'' 
 Companies are simply passing out titles to appease their employees, she said. ''There's no magic to it.'' 
 The software industry, which has always had its own nomenclature, is not immune to the pressure, said Alan Cooper, a software inventor in San Francisco. In the last several years computer programmers have taken to calling themselves designers, chief programmers or software architects, he said.
 ''Architect is certainly one of the more desirable titles, and as such it's rapidly becoming devalued and worthless, which is unfortunate,'' Mr. Cooper said.
 When he started out 30 years ago, there were far fewer programmers. But since the advent of the Internet, many companies now have small armies of programmers and chief technology officers to oversee them. These C.T.O.'s have a say in, and often a veto over, corporate strategy.
 ''There are a lot of people playing in this sandbox now,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''They want their props. They want respect. Where there's power, there's going to be lots of aggressive competition. That's why you've seen lots of title inflation in the world of software.''
 It is only natural to care what others, business acquaintances and even strangers, think of you, Mr. Cenedella said. But for all the mental energy executives expend seeking and attaining impressive-sounding handles, he said, neither the holders nor the beholders place that high a value on them.
 In a survey of its customers early this year TheLadders.com found that 85 percent would pass up a bigger title for a 10 percent increase in pay. ''Ultimately people don't care too much about your title,'' Mr. Cenedella said. ''You're never going to get hired based on your title, in and of itself. A job title's more useful internally to your company and for how you feel you're viewed.''
 Just ask Mr. Schulz of Amtrak, who chose his new title himself, how people have reacted to this change in his professional persona. 
 ''It's meant absolutely nothing,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by P.C. Vey)(pg. 1, 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); SALES TRAINING (67%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Executives and Management

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (67%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); RADIOSHACK CORP (54%); JWT (53%)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (67%); GS (NYSE) (56%); RSH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (67%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (67%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (67%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (67%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



606 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-29-05: RECONSIDERATION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: The First Occupation 

BYLINE: By Edward L. Ayers. 
Edward L. Ayers is dean of Arts and Sciences at the University of Virginia. This essay is adapted from his book ''What Caused the Civil War? Reflections on the South and Southern History,'' which will be published next month by W.W. Norton.

 BODY:
For more than a hundred years now the United States has been one of the great agents of social transformation in the world. From the Philippines at the turn of the 20th century to Iraq at the beginning of the 21st, this country has sought to remake other nations. The reconstructions of Japan and Germany after World War II stand as the great successes, mixed among other interventions in the Caribbean, Southeast Asia and the Middle East. 
 As Americans try to understand our role in the world, we seldom turn for instruction to our own history of Reconstruction of the South in the 1860's and 1870's. That is partly because the South is hardly a foreign country and partly because ''Gone With the Wind'' and other popular stories have told us that Reconstruction was a horrible mistake, a misguided, hypocritical and deluded effort by zealots to force an unnatural order on a helpless South. Modern historians have exploded that story but agree that Reconstruction failed to deliver on its promises, abandoning African-Americans to poverty, lynching and segregation. 
 Despite its limitations and failures, however, Reconstruction is worth our attention -- not least because it represented America's first attempt to transform a defeated society through a sustained military occupation. As such, it would foreshadow significant parts of American foreign policy over the next century and a half. 
 During the Civil War, the leaders of the North argued among themselves about what should be done with the South when its subjugation was complete. They were still arguing when the war came to an end and Lincoln was assassinated. The question before the United States in 1866, the great abolitionist Frederick Douglass argued, was whether a postwar devotion to black freedom would redeem the war or whether the loss of more than 600,000 people would ''pass into history a miserable failure, barren of permanent results -- a scandalous and shocking waste of blood and treasure.'' America's Reconstruction would witness a desperate competition between the spread of democracy and the restoration of political, economic and racial stability based on prewar foundations. 
 White Southerners, unrepentant after their military defeat, treated their conquerors with contempt. They unleashed riots in Memphis and New Orleans, created the Ku Klux Klan and enacted legal codes that reinscribed as much slavery as possible. White Southern resistance, in turn, provided the fuel and the rationale for Radical Reconstruction, which began in the spring of 1867 and sought to recast the political and social order of the defeated South through direct military control, free elections and state-sponsored economic development. Those who cooperated with the Republicans found themselves denounced in the South as ''scalawags''; those who came from the North to help rebuild the South were sneered at as greedy ''carpetbaggers.''
 Most white Southerners never accepted the legitimacy of Reconstruction. They crushed black voting and other freedoms through violence, terrorism and fraud. When Reconstruction was driven from the South 12 years after it began, the white Southern majority rejoiced that true law, true justice, had returned. Confederate soldiers were lionized and a culture of defiance flourished. Over the next half-century the white South waged, and won, a propaganda war over the meaning of Reconstruction. 
 Disdain for the South's Reconstruction continued through the isolationist years of the 1920's and 1930's, but victory in World War II changed American assumptions about the possibilities of reconstruction. The United States found itself once again an occupying power, this time in Japan. This reconstruction proved more satisfying for the American people than any that had come before or any that would follow. In the wake of unimaginable loss, the Japanese lay completely at the mercy of the occupying Americans. Japanese soldiers returned home in disgrace, and the Japanese people denounced the political leaders of the old regime. Gen. Douglas MacArthur ruled the defeated nation with wide-ranging authority. Japan became an ally of the most benign and helpful sort. Even so, American occupation stirred up animosities. In 1949, the Japanese made ''Gone With the Wind'' a best-selling novel, imagining themselves in the place of Scarlett O'Hara, living in a strange new world led by outsiders.
The pattern of the South's Reconstruction, more than the pattern of Japan's, has anticipated occupations elsewhere -- above all in Iraq, where some supporters of the old regime participate in a campaign of terror even as a long-oppressed and newly enfranchised group struggles to claim power. What are the lessons of our own self-reconstruction?
 1. Reconstructions tend to partake of all the dislocation, confusion and corruption of the wars they follow. Defeated people's memories collapse the suffering of war into the suffering of reconstruction. White Southerners have long conflated Sherman's march with an imagined devastation that Reconstruction, among the mildest of military occupations, did not in fact bring. 
 2. Reconstruction often creates a coherence, identity and solidarity among the reconstructed people they did not possess before. In the South, Reconstruction rather than the Civil War became the true object of contempt and hatred by postwar whites, the object of self-righteousness and retribution. Reconstruction displaced any guilt white Southerners may have felt for secession and ameliorated the shame of losing the Civil War. 
 3. Reconstructions foster steadfast defenders of the old order. A quest for purity, for return, for the respect of the fallen fathers, drives counter-reconstructions. When things go wrong, as they inevitably will, the opponents of reconstruction can always claim that things were better under the old regime. The ''old South,'' an imagined land of gentility and paternalism, was invented by the new South to justify a rigid racial order in a region increasingly filled with towns, railroads and factories.
 4. Quarantining greed is hard. Reconstructor nations can easily be seen as carpetbagger nations, preying on a vanquished population for profit. The white South used every instance of Northern self-interest as proof that all of Reconstruction was a false front, a mere ploy to advance Yankee greed. 
 5. Conflicts of interest and power tend to be imagined as problems of race, religion or civilization. Both sides look for sweeping explanations of their opponent's motives and failings. White Southerners made imagined racial characteristics of African-Americans the bedrock of their counter-reconstruction. All involved in Reconstruction thought that Christianity, rightly understood, supported their position, and they took strength from that belief.
 6. The clock is always ticking. Reconstructions are races between change and reaction; they cannot last long before they seem to be another form of oppression. Reconstructions must make their changes quickly or they are not likely to make them at all. The two years lost in the South before Radical Reconstruction began in 1867 proved fatal.
 7. Reconstructions often go further and in different directions than their creators intended. Black Americans proved to be hungrier and better prepared for full participation in politics than even many Radicals expected. Advocates for women's rights seized upon Reconstruction to demand that the movement for inclusion and full citizenship apply to women throughout the United States. Labor unions in the North marched under the same ideals of equality and freedom that the Republicans promoted in the South. 
 8. ''Freedom'' is a pliable word. Everyone involved in America's Reconstruction spoke of freedom, but all meant different things by that word. The Northern white advocates of freedom meant the freedom for former slaves to make a living by the sweat of their own brow. The black advocates of freedom meant the freedom to build independent lives for themselves and their families. The opponents of Reconstruction appealed to home rule and self-determination. An appeal to freedom can be an appeal for any action and can drive counter-reconstructions as well as forward-looking change.
 9. Finally, and perhaps most important, reconstructions can fall victim to their own ideals. Flush with military victory, furious with the rebels, appalled at the conditions of slavery they saw firsthand in the defeated South, the Radical Republicans announced that they would settle for nothing less than the utter transformation of the South. They proclaimed that if their plans came to pass in the South, ''the wilderness shall vanish, the church and school-house will appear . . . the whole land will revive under the magic touch of free labor.'' 
 Combining every dream of social reconstitution -- prosperity, justice and equality -- was dangerous enough by itself. But Republicans ignored the segregation and disfranchisement of African-Americans that marred their own Northern states, demanding a standard for the South they refused to apply to themselves. White Southerners hammered away relentlessly on this inconsistency of their would-be reconstructors, claiming that it nullified the moral standing of the white North. They held up every isolated instance of Republican bribery or malfeasance as an example of the moral bankruptcy of all Republicans everywhere.
 Republicans portrayed themselves not only as agents of democracy but also as agents of economic transformation. They would remake the South along Northern lines, with shrewd and farsighted investments in railroads, levees and roads. They bragged that their Yankee business acumen would make the South prosper in a way it had never prospered under the leadership of the lazy and incompetent slaveholder regime. When railroad financing collapsed in the Panic of 1873 and states defaulted on their payments, the Republicans suddenly appeared as bumbling and corrupt incompetents rather than as astute modernizers. By speaking of social progress as the seamless installation of democracy, capitalism and disinterested virtue, the Republicans put every part of their agenda at risk and would pay the price. After the disputed election of 1876, and the back-room deals that followed, the nation settled on an exit strategy.
 A hard paradox lies at the heart of all reconstructions: the reconstructor must transform a society in its own image without appearing selfish or self-righteous. An effort at reconstruction, our nation's history shows us, must be implemented not only with determination and might, but also with humility and self-knowledge -- and with an understanding of the experience of defeat that attention to Southern history can give us. Otherwise, America risks appearing as the thing it least wants to be, a carpetbagger nation. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The ruins of Charleston, S.C., April 1865. (Photograph from the Library Of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORY (77%); WORLD WAR II (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (60%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); United States International Relations; Reconstruction Era

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: Edward L Ayers

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (88%); ASIA (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



607 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: For Women in Need, a Way to Something Better 

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SHE ''wanted better,'' Audrey Buckmire says in explaining why taking care of other people's children from morning till evening provided an unfulfilling present and what she viewed as an unpromising future. 
 Besides, she says, it left her virtually no time for her own little girl.
 And so, a year after resolving to seek more financially and psychologically rewarding work, Ms. Buckmire, 34, is about to take the next crucial step in her quest for ''better.'' 
 In about two weeks, she is to become a summer intern in a program for potential legal secretaries at the Manhattan headquarters of a prominent international law firm. If she does well in the paid internship, the firm, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, may hire her in September.
 But it has not been a direct line from nanny to legal office for Ms. Buckmire, a Brooklyn resident who immigrated from Grenada 10 years ago. In between has been a nine-month program at the Grace Institute, a nonprofit, 108-year-old school in Manhattan that provides tuition-free training in skilled office work to low-income women who are unemployed or have poorly paying or dead-end jobs. 
 The school, on the Upper East Side, places about 10 percent of the 500 women who enroll each September in paid internships at law firms, banks, hospitals and other organizations, where they begin by spending one day a week during part of the school year to prepare for their full-time summer stints after graduation. 
 ''I didn't have the funds to go to college,'' Ms. Buckmire said recently as she recalled her quest to find other work. Her first charges had been two children on the Upper East Side. When they no longer needed full-day care after three years, she did the same work for two children in another family in the area for four years.
 After that job ended for the same reason last June, she took it as an opportunity to try to change course from what she sometimes refers to as ''baby-sitting.'' 
 ''I also needed more money, and I wanted to spend more time with my daughter,'' she said, recalling a schedule that had her departing for work at 7 a.m. and returning home at 7:30 p.m. 
 Ms. Buckmire said she and her husband separated in January 2004, leaving her with the expenses they previously shared. Those included rent of $600 a month and day care for their daughter, Danielle, now 3, which grew to nearly $800 a month after the separation. Ms. Buckmire was earning about $500 a week at the time, or $26,000 a year. The average pay in 2003 for full-time, legally employed child-care workers in the New York City area was $22,000, according to Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner of the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 After taxes, rent and day care, Ms. Buckmire said, she had about $300 a month, and ''some savings,'' for everything else. (Her husband began paying for the day care last September, she said.)
 A friend told her about the Grace Institute and its free courses in computer training, business math, business writing and general office procedures. She passed its entrance test in reading, math, English-language skills and typing. 
 Half the applicants to Grace are not accepted, many because they fail the test, said Noreen Haider, admissions manager of the school, whose founders included W.R. Grace, the maritime mogul who served two terms as mayor of New York in the 1880's.
 The test subjects were familiar to Ms. Buckmire. In Grenada, she had worked as an office manager for a real estate firm after finishing high school, and then, with on-the-job training, she worked as a bookkeeper for an auto repair business there and for a carpentry operation in New York. 
 But she had much to learn in terms of advanced office skills, including computer programs like Microsoft Word and Excel. 
 If Simpson Thacher hires Ms. Buckmire after her summer internship, her starting salary will probably be in the high $20,000's, said Anita L. Jaffe, the firm's director of secretarial services. Though this would not be much higher than her previous income, she would have benefits she lacked as a nanny, like health insurance and more agreeable work hours. The firm currently has seven interns from Grace, and usually hires about five from the school each September, Ms. Jaffe said. 
 ''I'm thinking positive,'' Ms. Buckmire said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ON THE JOB -- Audrey Buckmire, left, who will be a summer intern at the law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, and Kesha McClain, who manages its secretarial training. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WOMEN (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%) Labor; Women; Vocational Training; Unemployment

COMPANY: SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



608 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; INSIDE THE NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: The Microsoft Millionaires Come of Age

BYLINE: By JULIE BICK

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, Chris Peters was a former programmer who had made a fortune from his Microsoft stock options. Then he learned that the Professional Bowlers Association was for sale.
 Undeterred by his lack of experience in sports, broadcasting or any other directly relevant business, he recruited some friends as investors and bought the league. ''I was not very athletic'' as a child, Mr. Peters said by way of explaining his new career, ''but I always loved bowling with my father.''
 Stephanie DeVaan cashed out of Microsoft in 1995, after five years of marketing office software. Just 34 at the time, she went on to spend several years volunteering at charitable institutions. But by 2002, she was itching to do more, so she put her wealth to work in support of abortion rights and helped to found a political action committee called Washington Women for Choice. 
 Mr. Peters and Ms. DeVaan, who both live in the Seattle area, are members of one of the most remarkable groups of workers in the history of American capitalism. They were young, hard-working employees who hit an astounding jackpot by being at the right company -- in their cases, Microsoft -- at the right time.
 From the 1986 to 1996, Microsoft's stock soared more than a hundredfold as the company's Windows operating system and Office applications dominated the PC industry. That explosive climb made millionaires of employees who had accepted options as a substantial part of their compensation for 60-hour workweeks fueled by a diet of Twinkies, Coca-Cola and marshmallow Peeps. The sudden riches led many to refer to themselves as ''lottery winners.''
 ''While the exact number is not known, it is reasonable to assume that there were approximately 10,000 Microsoft millionaires created by the year 2000,'' said Richard S. Conway Jr., a Seattle economist whom Microsoft hired to study its impact on Washington State. ''The wealth that has come to this area is staggering.'' 
 Many employees spent their money immediately, in a variety of ways. If the stock price hit a new high, for example, five new sports cars might drive into Microsoft's parking lot in Redmond, Wash., the next day. Big-screen video projection theaters and indoor pools built to resemble the rocky caves of Hawaii appeared in employees' homes. One employee treated 30 family members to a weeklong vacation at a five-star resort. Another endowed a professorship in his name at Oxford University. 
 Some left Microsoft for new ventures on their own, and brought with them the creativity and drive that fueled Microsoft's early growth. Now, many of them are still only in their 40's, and they are turning up in the worlds of sports, politics, business and philanthropy, in Seattle and elsewhere.
 As owner of the bowling association, Mr. Peters realized that he knew little about running a sports league, so he hired a team of former Nike executives who capped the number of players in order to increase head-to-head competition, create rivalries and excite fans. They added a trick-shot segment and opened matches to women. 
 Five years after Mr. Peters and his partners, all friends he met at Microsoft, bought the association for an undisclosed sum (estimated at $5 million), it is on track to become profitable next year. Revenue has more than doubled over that span, and the number of 18- to 34-year-olds watching the tour's events on television has increased 80 percent. Corporate sponsors, which did not exist when they bought the tour, now number 19, and include Denny's, Pepsi and Motel 6.
 ''I love bowling. I wanted to save bowling,'' Mr. Peters said. ''The only way to do that was to make it profitable.''
 Ms. DeVaan's passion was also rooted in her childhood. She said she created her first protest poster with her mother when she was just 10. Her grandmother continued to register voters for the National Organization for Women when she was 84. 
 The idea of working to support abortion rights came several years after Ms. DeVaan left Microsoft, at a meeting with friends over satay at the Wild Ginger restaurant in Seattle. The women -- whom she described as entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, lawyers and others -- decided to focus their time and money on abortion rights because they felt that its support around the country was not reflected in national politics.
 Besides donating money to political candidates and helping to connect them to wealthy Democratic Party donors around Seattle, group members -- now numbering about 70 -- also work directly for campaigns as volunteers.
 Ms. DeVaan says her Microsoft experience is serving her well. ''When you're at Microsoft, you're working with an incredible group of talented, passionate people,'' she said. ''You really hit a groove and get things done. That's imprinted on you, and when you leave, you want to find that again.''
 RICH TONG said he knew that it was time to leave Microsoft when he made a presentation to its chief executive, Steve Ballmer, and was no longer scared. ''I realized that if I could confidently tell him how I thought the company should be organized, then I was qualified to run my own business,'' Mr. Tong said. In his 12 years there, he led several marketing teams. One helped raise sales of Windows to about $400 million a year, from $50 million, in two years.
 After quitting Microsoft, he devoted himself and his capital to Ignition Partners, a venture capital firm he said he founded with five other ''young retirees'' from Microsoft and McCaw Cellular. ''The six of us didn't have any V.C. experience at all,'' he recalled, ''so if we didn't put our own money on the line, no one else would trust us with theirs.''
 The firm, which has about $750 million under management, has attracted well-known investors including Harvard and General Motors. It has also drawn some well-known partners, most recently John Connors, who retired as Microsoft's chief financial officer in March. 
 ''Great people who have just left Microsoft or Amazon come to us and say: 'I'm ready for something new and fun. What have you got going?''' Mr. Tong said.
 While Microsoft alumni like Mr. Tong seek to invest in growing companies, others, like John Sage, try to create them. By his own estimate, Mr. Sage's Internet-based coffee company, Pura Vida, is 1/3,000th the size of Starbucks. But, he added, it has managed to displace Starbucks, Green Mountain and other premium brands in selling to student unions and dining halls at 75 colleges.
 Mr. Sage said he owed much to the strategies he picked up when he worked in Microsoft's consumer and office software businesses. The most useful strategy he borrowed is to change the way customers evaluate a company's product. 
 When Microsoft started bundling its word processor, spreadsheet and some other applications in the Office suite, Mr. Sage worked with the team that persuaded users to think more about how well the programs worked together and less about whether each, by itself, was the best on the market.
 In the coffee business, customers may choose a brand by price and quality. But Mr. Sage wants to add another criterion: Does it do good for the world? Pura Vida's coffee is grown organically, and the company donates a portion of its profits to poor families in coffee-growing regions. This mix of good coffee and good works appeals especially to students, which is why Aramark, the big food-services company, approached Pura Vida to supply some of its college accounts.
 Trained at Microsoft to think big, Mr. Sage says he hopes to inspire others to create socially responsible businesses. Pura Vida offers newsletters, trips to Costa Rica and blogs to connect customers to his cause. A Harvard Business School case study on Pura Vida may also help spread the word.
 For these former Microsoft employees, stock options made it possible to initiate new ventures. But all say the lessons they learned during their years at the company have helped their ventures to succeed. As Mr. Sage put it, ''It's like a little bit of Bill Gates came with us when we left.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AFTER MICROSOFT -- Many former Microsoft employees have used their riches from stock options to pursue their dreams, and they credit the lessons they learned at the company for their success. Clockwise from left are Chris Peters, now the chairman and an owner of the Professional Bowlers Association
Stephanie DeVaan, who helped found a political action committee
Rich Tong, who with others started Ignition Partners, a venture capital firm
 and John Sage, president of Pura Vida, a coffee company. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); BOWLING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); CHARITIES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); RESORTS (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (68%); ABORTION (68%); WORK WEEK (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); COMPUTER MAKERS (66%); LOTTERIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Millionaires and Billionaires; Bowling; Political Action Committees; Abortion; Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital; Coffee; Stock Options and Purchase Plans

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp; Professional Bowlers Assn; Washington Women For Choice (Orgn); Ignition Partners; Pura Vida (Co)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

PERSON: Chris Peters; Stephanie Devaan; Rich Tong; John Sage

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



609 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Life Without a College Degree

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Here's an idea to create an additional incentive for elite colleges to recruit working-class students: Why doesn't U.S. News & World Report revise its highly influential rankings to give greater weight to economic diversity in the student body as a measure of the academic quality of the institution? 
 Most people who use the rankings just jump to the list. They won't notice that methodological change, but they and certainly the colleges will notice if their ranking drops. 
 It's a simple change that could help lead to a stronger meritocracy in this country by giving more Americans the chance to pursue that crucial college degree.

Izzat Jarudi
Washington, May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); TRENDS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Colleges and Universities; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US News & World Report (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Izzat Jarudi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



610 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3710 words

HEADLINE: A Mini-Enron on Every Corner?

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
ON that Christmas day in 1998, life could hardly have seemed better for the Gordon brothers, David and Greg. They brought their wives to celebrate the holiday amid the festive decor of their parents' home in Conroe, Tex., a onetime oil boom town north of Houston. As family members relaxed, the brothers eagerly compared notes about their triumphs of the last year. 
 The stock market bubble was still expanding. For David Gordon, a corporate lawyer from Tulsa, that translated into a flourishing business helping companies go public or make acquisitions. For Greg Gordon, who ran a successful wholesale jewelry business with his wife, Lisa, the flood of market wealth had created a heated demand for the luxury items he sold. 
 Then, as they sat near the Christmas tree, David broached a thought. Why not combine their talents, linking some of the highflying businessmen he knew with Greg's thriving company, Con-Tex Silver Imports? It seemed the perfect path to even greater wealth and achievement for all the Gordons. 
 Instead, it ripped the family apart. Within years, Con-Tex was destroyed -- the victim, according to a court-appointed examiner, of mismanagement and potential criminality. David and Greg, once so close, stopped speaking to each other as they battled in court. Their parents, too, were dragged into the dust-up, testifying on behalf of one son's interests -- and against the other's. 
 How could it happen? How could a small company be wrecked so quickly amid myriad accusations of financial wrongdoing that went undetected until the whole place came tumbling down?
 The answer is, it happens every day. The Con-Tex story is not just the tale of the downfall of one company or one family. It is a microcosm, a look at an underbelly of the investing and corporate worlds where hokey deals and mysterious webs of linked investors are part of the workaday business. 
 In the last few years, in the wake of the high-profile collapses of Enron, WorldCom and other onetime giants, steady attention has been focused on cleaning up the practices of companies at the top of the corporate pyramid. But the companies at the bottom -- which make up the vast majority of corporate entities -- still exist under the radar of public scrutiny, despite too often playing fast and loose with the rules. 
 ''These companies have all kinds of vulnerabilities, from incompetence to fraud,'' Linda C. Thomsen, head of enforcement for the Securities and Exchange Commission, said of thinly traded companies that go public without directly selling new shares, as Con-Tex did. ''People who invest in these tend to have less disposable cash, so their losses are probably more dramatic for them. They can afford to lose less and they probably invested more.''
 The Con-Tex story involves a range of potential securities violations, according to lawyers and court records. But primarily, legal experts say, it is an example of the abuses that are possible in the sale of unregistered securities under what is known as Rule 504 of federal securities laws.
 ''This is the shadowy world of 504 offerings -- which are, as often as not, associated with a certain amount of fraud or incompetence,'' John C. Coffee Jr., a law professor at Columbia University, said about the Con-Tex case after reviewing a bankruptcy examiner's report. ''In this case, it doesn't look like the 504 offerings done here were done in compliance with the rules.''
 The potential violations at Con-Tex went beyond that, according to court records. The company issued misleading press releases, mistakenly took over the wrong company and allowed audits to be signed by an accountant who was unlicensed in Texas -- and who may have never visited the company. 
 ''As a corporate lawyer, it goes against the grain to see professional work done this badly,'' said Robert E. Crawford Jr., a Dallas lawyer who was the bankruptcy examiner. ''At one level, it is horrifying, and at the other end, it is just an example of the Wild West frontier that can exist in this world, despite the regulatory effort. There are just too many companies out there.''
 For Greg Gordon, what happened is obvious: the brother he once trusted, he has argued in court filings, transformed Con-Tex into a public company solely to profit by manipulating the share price -- and ultimately tried to take away more than 60 million shares he owned. ''I had a real belief in my brother, but I was stupid,'' Greg said in an interview. ''He's a crook.''
 For David Gordon, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing and denies having done anything improper, the real culprit is Greg. ''You try to help your brother build a business, you think your brother is honest, has integrity, and then you find out he doesn't,'' he said in an interview. ''I have watched my brother completely tear the family apart. This is a deal where he blew through $3 million and wanted to blame someone else.''
 Amid the flurry of litigation, both brothers can point to court victories. A fraud lawsuit filed by Greg Gordon was recently tossed out by a judge in Montgomery County, Tex. But this month, a federal bankruptcy judge held that Greg was entitled to 75 million shares in Con-Tex's parent company, rejecting David's argument that he was not.

Friendship and Rivalry
 The Gordon family had always been competitive. The men -- George David Gordon Sr., a prominent lawyer in Conroe; George Jr., who went by David; and James Gregory Gordon, or Greg -- had been accomplished athletes. Family ski trips always included races, and the two brothers, both successful tennis players in college, could often be found battling it out on the courts. 
 More often than not, David was the victor. But Greg thought himself the better player. ''He was my damned big brother,'' he said. ''He was always playing mind games on me.'' 
 After college, David quickly seemed the one headed on to big things. He earned a law degree from the University of Tulsa, joined a law firm where he cut his teeth on securities work, and eventually hung out his own shingle. 
 Greg's career possibilities seemed more limited. After graduating from the University of Arkansas with a degree in physical education, he attended some junior college classes, learning gemology. He sold jewelry door to door, then found some success in handling jewelry road shows for the Sam's Club division of Wal-Mart, but soon he was looking for his next step. He found it at home.
 In 1994, his wife, Lisa, and his mother, Darla, created a company called Con-Tex -- named for Conroe, Texas -- which sold beaded jewelry. Greg joined on and helped build up Con-Tex as a wholesale jeweler, traveling to Mexico several times a year to buy handmade products for American retailers. 
 By 1998, the company was a success. Con-Tex, Greg said, showed $80,000 in annual profits, not including compensation to the Gordons of about $160,000 a year. Things were looking good. ''We were very happy with what we were doing,'' he said.
 The Christmas discussions with David proved a turning point. Both brothers agree that David first mentioned connecting Con-Tex with some businessmen he knew who might want to buy some jewelry. The entreaties soon went further, with David suggesting a more radical idea: using his business connections to take Con-Tex public. Greg's parents were hesitant, but Greg and Lisa decided that the offer was too good to pass up.
 Still, problems that David faced at that moment might have served as warning signs. Struthers Industries, a holding company based in Tulsa where David once served as president had fallen into bankruptcy and, in 1998, sued him and several others. While David Gordon was far from the primary target of litigation in the Struthers bankruptcy, the lawsuit against him, which was ultimately settled, asserted that he and the other defendants had engaged in sham transactions involving shell entities, aimed at pulling assets away from the company. 
 In an interview, David Gordon said he had done nothing wrong in the Struthers case and had personally assisted the company in recovering assets from its management. But the court-appointed bankruptcy examiners in both the Struthers and Con-Tex cases said Struthers did appear to be something of a precursor for what happened at Greg Gordon's company.
 ''If you focus on David Gordon, you find an incredible web of interrelated parties,'' said Mr. Crawford, the Con-Tex examiner. ''A similar network of people show up again and again and again in these deals, most of which seem to end up in bankruptcy.''

How the Deals Took Shape
 At its most basic, the selling of a company's initial public shares is a little like hawking hot dogs at the ballpark. Someone discloses what's for sale -- all beef, pork, kosher, whatever -- and potential buyers decide if they want in. 
 But there is another way to go public, one that offers fewer protections to investors and more opportunities for mischief. Taking this route, a shell company -- the corporate equivalent of an empty bun -- is sold to the public. It never has much, if any, meat: no revenue, no earnings, no assets. 
 Once the shares in these shells are distributed, lawyers, accountants and financiers can come along and load them up with whatever they want by merging private companies into the public shells. But when the meat is added after the buns are sold, the quality is rarely top-notch.
 To bring Con-Tex public, David Gordon recommended the second approach -- merging it into a public shell. But the idea was not simple; instead, an array of empty businesses were bought, sold and swapped in an assortment of deals that would have done Rube Goldberg proud.
 Step 1 was finding the public shell company to serve as the bun. The one chosen was Transun International Airways -- which, despite its name, had no airplanes, no routes and nothing to do with the airline business. What it did have, however, was a history: Transun had once been used by the Genovese crime family as part of a multimillion-dollar fraud known as a ''pump and dump,'' in which a company's shares are acquired at minimal cost and artificially inflated by aggressive promotion before insiders unload their stock.
 With a shell at the ready, Step 2 involved putting together the meat -- or, more accurately, a blend of meat and filler. For the filler, David Gordon turned to two investors in Boca Raton, Fla., he had known for more than a decade. Those investors owned a thinly traded entity called International Internet, which in turn held a private company calledGoldonline.com -- an entity with no tangible assets and no revenue, whose sole asset was a rudimentary Web site. But International Internet agreed to sell Goldonline.com in exchange for 10 million shares in the merged company.
 Then, Step 3: adding some meat with actual value. Greg Gordon agreed to sell his company, Con-Tex, to Transun in exchange for 75 million shares in the new company.
 When the paperwork was signed, Transun, Goldonline.com and Con-Tex were all part of the same public company, with Greg Gordon owning a supermajority of shares and David Gordon's associates in Boca Raton also holding a hefty stake.
 The paperwork to document all these transactions was, to put it mildly, a mess, according to court records. The stock certificates of Goldonline.com and the corporate records of that entity were never delivered to the merged company, court documents show. The sales agreement between Transun and Con-Tex describes the purchase price as just 500 shares of Transun, rather than the 75 million shares that everyone in the case agrees were supposed to have been issued. And the full stake was not issued until September -- a crucial point in the subsequent battles.
 Then, in July, more deals: the sale of unregistered securities in the merged company, now namedGoldonline International, supposedly under Rule 504. Based on a letter signed by Greg Gordon, 200,000 units -- each including four shares and a warrant to buy eight shares at 50 cents each -- were offered for $1 each, with many of the buyers having close professional relationships with David Gordon. Whether some people listed as buyers actually chose to buy units is unclear. For example, George Gordon -- father of Greg and David -- testified that he had no memory of making such a purchase and had not authorized anyone to sign his name on the agreement subscribing to the offering. In testimony, David Gordon acknowledged that he had signed the required agreement for his father and put up the money for the investment as a gift.
 In an interview, David Gordon said there was nothing unusual about signing on his parents' behalf. ''I think it is common practice for someone who is acting as counsel for someone,'' he said. ''I think it is legal.''
 Regardless, the supposed 504 sale was anything but proper, according to the bankruptcy examiner's report. Necessary documents were not filed or signed. Exemptions were not obtained. ''There does not appear to be any basis for a claim that the shares issued in this transaction were issued in compliance with the requirements,'' the report says.
 All the transactions had one important result: millions of shares in what was then called Goldonline International were distributed to clients and associates of David Gordon. If the stock price went up, they stood to make some big returns.

Buying the Wrong Company
 By David Gordon's reckoning, it was a phone call from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the summer of 1999 that set the next crucial deal in motion. In that call, he later testified, an agent told him about an investigation of trading in the Transun shell. Although David Gordon did not testify about the nature of the inquiry, it could not have had anything to do with the Genovese crime family -- the indictments charging the Transun manipulation had already been handed up the previous year.
 But, according to David Gordon's testimony, he decided that he had to act. The purchasers in the supposed 504 deal could demand their money back for not having been told of potential legal problems, he said, so something had to be done to mollify them. The decision was reached to enter into a reverse stock split, a move that would bolster the value of each individual share. Every six shares would be transformed into one.
 Well, not really every six shares. The 10 million shares committed for the purchase of Goldonline.com from the longtime associates of David Gordon had not been issued yet; they were distributed without a reverse split, according to court records. And when all the shares were issued for the purchasers in the so-called 504 offering, no reverse split affected their stake, either. In other words, the four shares they had bought in their unit deal just weeks before now had the equivalent value of 24 presplit shares, and with the price being pushed up by the maneuver, their right to buy eight post-split shares for 50 cents each was now much more valuable.
 For Mr. Crawford, the bankruptcy examiner, David Gordon's explanation for the reverse stock split didn't hold water. And neither did several other rationales. ''There are three or four different explanations for why there was a reverse stock split and none of them make a lick of sense,'' he said. The transaction, he said, ''took value from some shareholders, gave it to other shareholders and didn't do it in accordance with corporate requirements.''
 As far as anyone could tell, the reverse split had no effect on the 75 million shares paid to Greg Gordon for Con-Tex. Corporate filings listed Greg's full investment -- minus a 7.5-million-share ''finder's fee'' that David was to get for the Transun deal. And George Gordon testified that his son David had told him repeatedly that the reverse split ''did not affect Greg's shares'' -- a statement that David denies having made.
 As all the paper-shuffling involving the company's capital structure took place, other problems emerged inside Goldonline. Officers and associates, including Greg and David Gordon, failed to file required documents with the S.E.C. about their stock transactions and holdings. 
 And the company's independent auditor, who lived in New York, was not licensed to practice in Texas. Court records suggest that he may have relied for the physical audit on an accountant who worked with David Gordon and owned a stake in the company. That accountant, Jim Ross, was sanctioned in 1998 by the S.E.C. for engaging in improper stock transactions in the course of what the agency deemed a corporate ''fund-raising scheme''; his lawyer in that case was David Gordon.
 Then, in early 2000, David Gordon informed his brother that the company needed to register its stock under Section 12 of the federal securities laws. But rather than simply paying to register the securities -- an action that court records said would have cost $20,000 to $75,000 -- David recommended issuing 1.2 million shares to acquire and merge into an entity called Benton Ventures, which had no operations and only $500 cash in assets, but whose shares were registered. The stock presumably would have gone to the man listed as Benton's owner, Ross Silvey. 
 But, according to the court records, Mr. Silvey knew nothing of Benton Ventures or the transaction with Goldonline. Instead, the shares were issued to Ashley Brooks Cosmetics -- an entity incorporated by David Gordon in his capacity as a lawyer, and associated with the family of Mark White, one of the investors in the unregistered securities of Goldonline. In the fallout of the ultimate bankruptcy of Goldonline, George Gordon testified that David had told him that Ashley Brooks Cosmetics ''was his company, or one of his companies.'' David denies ever having made the statement.
 Still, why did Ashley Brooks receive shares instead of Mr. Silvey? ''When asked why,'' the examiner's report says, ''David Gordon said that he had made a mistake and the shares should have been issued to acquire a different corporation, the name of which he could not recall.''

Spinning Out of Control
 By early 2002, warfare was breaking out at Goldonline, whose name by then had changed to SGD Holdings. A series of financing transactions had brought in new directors, and the board often split two-to-two. Greg Gordon and another director, William E. Dark, called for a shareholder meeting, which had never been held; David Gordon, according to his father's testimony, repeatedly cautioned the board that the time was not right for such a meeting -- which is supposed to be held annually. 
 Worse, an executive committee was running the company, seemingly usurping some board duties, according to testimony of Mr. Dark and interviews. Greg Gordon and Mr. Dark failed in attempts to disband the committee; Mr. Dark, frustrated, resigned from the board. Greg continued to make waves, questioning dealings between SGD and a company that was not paying its bills promptly. But he got nowhere. In essence, the man listed in the filings as the single largest shareholder had no control of the board and had effectively lost control of the company. 
 Then, in the summer of 2002, a draft copy of the company's 10-K -- its annual financial report filed with the S.E.C. -- was dropped off on Greg's desk. For the first time, he saw that the 67.5 million shares he had often been listed as holding had suddenly dropped to 12.5 million shares. His legal -- if not actual -- control of the company had been obliterated, the value of what he thought was his stake had been cut sharply, and no one had bothered to tell him about it. 
 ''I called David and cussed him out and then went down to Dad's office,'' Greg said in an interview. ''Dad said, 'Don't worry about it, they can't do it.' Well, it turned out they did it.''
 New issues began bubbling up. After hearing a presentation on the new Sarbanes-Oxley law adopted in the wake of the Enron and WorldCom debacles, George Gordon raised concerns to Greg about the weaknesses of SGD's external audit. That was the final straw.
 ''I told them I would not sign the 10-K,'' Greg Gordon said.
 The board acted swiftly. In November, Greg Gordon was dismissed from SGD, and afterward from its Con-Tex subsidiary. The company sued him, accusing him of stealing $2.2 million; that lawsuit was eventually dropped. But Greg did not let the matter go. SGD was insisting that his stake was only 12.5 million shares. He refused to accept that, and took everyone to court.
 ''The lawsuits started, and I have been fighting them ever since,'' Greg said.
 The battle for the now-struggling company took its toll. Con-Tex and SGD filed for bankruptcy. The brothers stopped speaking and started blaming each other as being solely responsible for the corporate disaster. Greg accused his brother of destroying the company in his web of deal making. But David blamed Greg.
 ''Greg is a tar baby who jeopardizes everyone who associates with him,'' David wrote in a letter to his mother, Darla, in August 2004. ''I fear Greg will drag you into his quagmire of lies, deceit and fraud.''
 In an interview, David was more restrained in his statements, but repeatedly pointed to the fact that Greg Gordon had signed almost all of the documents at issue in the case. 
 David said he took great solace in the fact that the suit his brother filed against him had been tossed out without a trial. Greg said he found satisfaction in the decision of the bankruptcy court declaring that he was still the owner of 75 million shares in SGD, now bankrupt. That ruling declared David to be ''a sophisticated businessperson'' while Greg was described as someone not ''skilled in legal matters.''
 The unseen victims, though, are not just investors, but workers who saw their jobs evaporate. ''I had 32 employees that, through no fault of their own, David cost them their life,'' Greg said. ''One of them lost their home, their car.'' David, of course, blames Greg for that outcome.
 But still, part of Greg can't let go of the brother he once loved. ''Do I miss him?'' he asked. ''Yeah, in a weird way.''
 These days, he says, he spends a fair amount of time thinking about their childhood together, about their competitions, about their friendship. ''I cherish those moments now more than I ever did,'' Greg said, ''Because now they're gone forever.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Greg and Lisa Gordon did deals with Greg's brother to take their jewelry company public
the venture imploded and tore the family apart. After that they started a new business selling jewelry and home decor. (Photo by Carlos Javier Sanchez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 David, left, and Greg Gordon in better times: Christmas 1990, in their parents' home in Conroe, Tex. (pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BONDS (76%); JEWELRY (75%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); JEWELRY WHOLESALERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ETHICS (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Con-Tex Silver Imports (Co)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

PERSON: Linda Thomsen; David Gordon; Greg Gordon; Kurt Eichenwald; Lisa Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



611 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: The China Scapegoat

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
The most important diplomatic relationship in the world is between the U.S. and China. It's souring and could get much worse.
 Alas, the U.S. is mostly to blame for this. And the biggest culprit of all is the demagoguery of some Democrats in Congress. 
 There are plenty of legitimate reasons to be angry with China's leaders, but its trade success and exchange rate policy are not among them. The country that is distorting global capital flows and destabilizing the world economy is not China but the U.S. American fiscal recklessness is a genuine international problem, while blaming Chinese for making shoes efficiently amounts to a protectionist assault on the global trade system.
 In fact, China's pegged exchange rate has brought stability to Asia, and the Chinese boom has tugged Japan out of recession and increased prosperity worldwide. In recent years, China has supplied almost one-third of the growth in the global economy (measured by purchasing power), compared with the 13 percent that came from the U.S. 
 Moreover, the U.S. has a history of offering Asia economic advice that proves awful. U.S. pressure helped produce Japan's disastrous bubble economy and aggravated the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. So when American officials urge an adjustment in the yuan exchange rate, the Chinese should keep a hand on their wallets.
 Over the last five years, President Bush has done an excellent job in managing relations with China -- it's one of his very few successes in foreign policy -- but lately he has engaged in protectionism. This month he reimposed quotas on certain Chinese textiles, and the Treasury warned China that it had better adjust its exchange rate or else.
 Mr. Bush abandoned his principles because he was under attack from Democrats waving the bloody shirt of lost jobs. Sure, China's cheap yuan has cost us manufacturing jobs -- but it has also led to a flood of Chinese capital to America, keeping interest rates low. If we blame China for lost American jobs in making shirts, we should credit it for new American jobs in banking and construction.
 Americans are also unfair in accusing China of not stopping North Korea's nuclear program. The reality is that the North Koreans don't listen to the Chinese about anything, and many on each side look down on the other. Privately, some Chinese dismiss the North Koreans as ''Gaoli bangzi'' or Korean hillbillies. And fortified by a bit of liquor, North Koreans denounce Chinese as unscrupulous, money-grubbing traitors. Whenever I meet North Koreans, I tell them that the Chinese government doesn't like me -- and my status soars.
 China has been pushing hard in the last two years for a negotiated solution to the North Korean crisis, and it at least has a coherent policy on North Korea. That's more than you can say for the Bush administration.
 One of the biggest risks for U.S.-China relations is the -- very outside -- chance that President Bush will order a military strike on the North Korean nuclear complex at Yongbyon. Most experts say that the resulting radiation leakage would probably not harm nearby countries, and in any case South Korea and Japan would be more at risk than China. But any hint that radiation had reached the Chinese coast would provoke anti-American fury across China.
 There's a third big danger for U.S.-China relations, and this one is Beijing's fault: China's schools teach hatred of Japan, resulting in last month's street demonstrations in which Chinese protesters screamed slogans such as ''Japanese must die.'' 
 The next act in the drama will unfold at sea. Japanese ships may start exploring disputed waters for oil and gas in the late summer or fall, perhaps with military escorts. China's leaders will then be under tremendous popular pressure to send China's own military vessels to block what Chinese will see as an armed Japanese incursion. And then Japan will ask the U.S. for help under the U.S.-Japan security treaty. 
 In the past, President Jiang Zemin protected the U.S.-Chinese relationship. But many Chinese scorned him as ''qin Mei,'' or soft on the U.S. The new president, Hu Jintao, seems much less likely to go out on a limb to preserve good relations with the U.S.
 So it's time for Americans to take a deep breath. Poisonous trade disputes with China will only aggravate the risks ahead, strengthen the hard-liners in Beijing and leave ordinary Chinese feeling that Americans are turning into China-bashers. Sadly, they'll have a point. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%) United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Protectionism (Trade); Currency; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



612 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: Coast Guard Assesses Risks of Gas Plant

BYLINE: By LAURIE NADEL

DATELINE: Eatons Neck 

 BODY:
EVER since Broadwater Energy announced plans to build a platform and pipeline for liquefied natural gas in the middle of Long Island Sound last November, opinions on the proposal have flourished.
 The company has pointed to the possibility of lower natural gas prices. Opponents have pointed to the potential for fires or environmental problems from accidents or terrorism. And politicians have begun weighing in on whether the platform and pipeline should be built.
 But the task of collecting data and assessing potential risks falls to the Coast Guard, which must present its findings to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The commission could rule on Broadwater's request for a permit next year. 
 Among its regular duties, the Coast Guard patrols the Sound, but its mission has become more complicated with the fact-finding mission and risk assessment of a heavily used waterway. 
 Rick Ball II, a chief boatswain's mate in the Coast Guard, pointed to a nautical map of the western Sound and said, ''We're the backdoor to Manhattan.'' 
 As the executive petty officer at the Coast Guard station at Eatons Neck, Chief Ball supervises the daily Homeland Security patrols of the western Sound. He assigns four Coast Guardsmen, who carry 9-millimeter pistols, to a 25-foot cutter commissioned by the Coast Guard for just such purposes. 
 ''We have what we like to call a regular random scheduled activity,'' Chief Ball said. ''We go into the nooks and crannies of our area of responsibility, and we stop certain boats and ask, 'Where have you been?''' 
 Now the question is whether the Coast Guard might be checking natural gas tankers, too.
 In November, Shell U.S. Gas and Power and the TransCanada Corporation formed Broadwater, which has applied to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a permit to build the storage platform and pipeline, which it would open in 2010. Broadwater plans to complete the formal filing later this year.
 Public debate began immediately after the announcement, and it has spilled over into political debate. This month the Suffolk County Legislature voted unanimously to oppose the Broadwater plan, Senator Charles E. Schumer announced his opposition and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton expressed reservations after speaking with commission officials.
 ''We recognize that having a project of this nature will engender a lot of strong feelings,'' said John Hritcko Jr., the senior vice president at Broadwater. 
 The Coast Guard will study both the safety and security implications of the Broadwater plant. There, tankers would unload liquefied gas, or L.N.G., which is mostly methane that has been frozen at minus-260 degrees Fahrenheit. It would then be warmed to a gaseous state and pumped underwater to New York City, Long Island and Connecticut for retail sale and to fuel power plants.
 The Coast Guard undertook a two-day Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment earlier this month in Port Jefferson, and as part of the process, it invited 30 people -- commercial fishermen, recreational boaters, ferry captains and representatives from environmental groups and from Broadwater -- to give their opinions. Although the assessment dealt with both security and safety, security issues are scheduled to be addressed separately in closed meetings conducted by the Coast Guard this summer and fall.
 ''Although there are relationships between safety and security, there are differences,'' said Lt. Cmdr. Alan Blume, the chief of the prevention department in the Coast Guard's Marine Safety Office for Long Island Sound. 
 Capt. David Scott testified before the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources last February. ''The Coast Guard has long recognized the unique safety and security challenges posed by transporting millions of gallons of L.N.G. or 'cryogenic methane,''' he said.
 If there were an accident involving the Broadwater platform or a ship carrying liquefied natural gas, a vapor cloud of the methane could travel two to four miles, said Adrienne Esposito, the executive director of the Citizens Campaign for the Environment in Farmingdale. The vapor cloud could also ignite, and the cold gas could crack any metal structure and asphyxiate those on board the tanker, she said. 
 Ms. Esposito cited a December 2004 report on liquid natural gas accidents, a document produced for the Department of Energy by a Sandia Corporation laboratory in Albuquerque. 
 ''The report concludes that an intentional breach of the L.N.G. containers could occur,'' she said. ''There could be an initial ignition. They don't like to call it an explosion. If that occurs, this fire would burn so hotly there's no way to extinguish it.'' 
 Maureen Dolan, who represented the Citizens Campaign for the Environment at the assessment meeting, said that a key point of discussion was how two or three tankers going through the Race -- a three-mile-wide channel at the northeastern edge of the Sound -- would affect traffic. The Race accommodates thousands of recreational and commercial boats each year. 
 The Maritime Transportation Safety Act of 2002 requires a security zone around a ship carrying liquefied natural gas. No other vessel is supposed to be within a mile of the bow, 100 feet of the stern or 500 feet to either side. 
 ''That's quite a chunk of the Race to be taken away two to three times a week,'' Ms. Esposito said. 
 Broadwater's proposed location, 9 miles from Wading River and 11 miles from New Haven, is also under scrutiny. Nautical charts distributed at the safety assessment meeting showed that the site could obstruct commercial traffic. 
 ''It's premature at this point to say what its impact would be,'' Commander Blume said. ''We don't have the answer. If we did, we wouldn't need an assessment.''
 But Mr. Hritcko said that the Broadwater plant ''would fit in quite nicely'' in the Sound and would not be in a major shipping lane.
 ''Long Island Sound is not an isolated backwater,'' he said. ''Broadwater is consistent with the use of the Sound, with ships entering the Sound. It's right in line with activities that have been in place all along.''
 In 2004, Commander Blume said, some 570 ships under foreign flags arrived in the Sound, and more than half were tankers carrying petroleum products. The Broadwater proposal would add 100 to 150 arrivals, each subject to provisions of the Maritime Transportation Safety Act, including 96 hours' notice of arrival. 
 Each ship's host government must also provide lists of crew members and their passports, the ship's previous ports of call and cargo information. The Coast Guard routinely boards ships carrying liquefied natural gas, checking for security violations, and monitors their transit. 
 ''The Maritime Transportation Safety Act, that's a pretty big deal,'' Chief Ball said. ''Any boats that come into here, we're going to know about ahead of time if they're playing legit. If they're not playing legit, I'm sure we're still going to know about it.'' 
 When asked whether a cargo ship or tanker could slip in undetected, Chief Ball said: ''No way. We're the federal government.''
 But Brian Lee, a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission spokesman in Washington, said that there was no denying the potential for terrorism involving a project like Broadwater. ''There is no energy infrastructure in the country that is not a potential terrorist target, whether it's a transmission line or a natural gas pipeline,'' he said. ''As a society, we assume a certain level of risk for the benefit the activity provides. It doesn't take rocket science to analyze this. We need to look at the severe economic threat that high demand and insufficient supply for natural gas provide.''
 Mr. Hritcko contends that the Broadwater plant's economic and environmental benefits would outweigh the risks. ''The biggest gains from Broadwater will be an economic supply of natural gas, a means of clearing the air in this region by replacing fossil fuel,'' he said. ''It will contain prices, bringing a net economic benefit to the tristate area.''
 One crucial player, the KeySpan Energy Corporation, the Island's natural gas supplier, has not taken a stand. If the Broadwater plant is built, KeySpan could presumably buy natural gas from it, perhaps at lower prices. ''We have not done any analysis or feasibility studies at this time,'' said Diana Parisi, KeySpan's director of media relations. ''We have not made any decision.''
 Economics notwithstanding, the possibility of a fire involving liquefied natural gas emerged from the Port and Waterways Safety Assessment as a concern for Suffolk County's emergency-response officials.
 Commander Blume said that several emergency-response officials said they could not combat a fire from an accident or attack on the Broadwater plant or on a tanker carrying liquefied natural gas. 
 ''Firefighting capabilities on the Sound, it's limited,'' he said. ''The firefighting equipment on commercial tugs are pretty good, but the one fireboat operated by a fire department is in the Port of New York and New Jersey.'' The boat is stationed in the East River just south of the Brooklyn Bridge, about 80 miles from the Broadwater site. 
 Joe Williams, Suffolk's fire commissioner, said he had looked at studies of other liquefied natural gas plants around the country and acknowledged the need for an emergency plan to protect the public. 
 ''This plant is going to be completely surrounded by water,'' he said. ''Based on the size and uniqueness, there's a potential for anything.''
 Although Broadwater would be required by law to have firefighting equipment on the platform and to draw up an emergency plan, the provisions would cover only employees. 
 ''It's very, very dangerous to pretend that thousands of people aren't out on Long Island Sound at any given time,'' said Ms. Esposito of the Citizens Campaign for the Environment. ''Long Island Sound is not the Dead Sea.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PATROLLING THE SOUND -- The Coast Guard's Homeland Security duties could multiply if Broadwater Energy builds a platform and pipeline for liquefied natural gas. (Photos by Broadwater Energy, left
Photograph by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Rick Ball II oversees Coast Guard security patrols in the western Sound. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); METHANE (78%); POLITICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); TERRORISM (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); COUNTIES (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%) Gas (Fuel); Terrorism; Fires and Firemen; Environment; Accidents and Safety

COMPANY: TRANSCANADA CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%) Coast Guard (US); Broadwater Energy; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

TICKER: TRP (TSX) (84%); TRP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%) Laurie Nadel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island Sound

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



613 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Exiting the Public Stage

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
GEORGE C. WOLFE thinks George W. Bush has it easy. 
 It's a sunny spring day, and Mr. Wolfe, 50, is summing up the position that he recently vacated -- producer of the Public Theater -- and that his successor, Oskar Eustis, officially takes over on Wednesday. 
 And, as usual, Mr. Wolfe is understated. 
 ''There is no comparable job on the planet in terms of joy and possibility and in terms of drain and in terms of scrutiny,'' Mr. Wolfe said. ''There's no place, not even the presidency, that is comparable to being the producer of the Public Theater.'' 
 O.K., well, Mr. Wolfe didn't have to deal with a war. But the top position at the Public -- an institution built by the showman and civic titan Joe Papp -- has always been a political challenge, wrought with intrigue, victories and crises. For the most part, Mr. Wolfe was equal to that task, proving himself to be one of most dynamic figures in the American theater, capable of breathtaking accomplishment (''Angels in America,'' ''Bring In 'da Noise, Bring In 'da Funk,'' ''Elaine Stritch: At Liberty,'' ''Topdog/Underdog'') and astounding bloopers, particularly the Broadway flops ''On the Town'' and ''The Wild Party.'' 
 Those last two, of course, are sore points. 
 ''Every single time, it's George C. 'On the Town,' 'Wild Party' Wolfe,'' he said, in a high-pitched, high-speed exclamation that falls somewhere between a scream and a laugh. ''The discussion of 'On the Town' and 'The Wild Party' in proportion to the accomplishment has decidedly not been balanced, one could say, if one were actually bitter, which I am not.''
 Indeed, even as he exits the Public, Mr. Wolfe seems to still be making a case for his legacy. Which is odd, of course, considering his accomplishments: 12 years on the job, two Tony Awards for direction and a handful for the theater itself. He leaves the Public with a healthy bank balance and a solid reputation for developing the careers of promising young writers. ''The thing I love about this job more than anything is creating structures so that other artists can play,'' he says. 
 Mr. Wolfe also leaves on the eve of the Public's 50th-anniversary season, which bears all the hallmarks of his tenure, including a revival of ''Mother Courage and Her Children'' with Meryl Streep, which he plans to direct next summer. His going-away party, in April, was perhaps the starriest event of the theatrical season, with everyone from Ben Stiller to John Guare to Eartha Kitt.
 So how is it that Mr. Wolfe seems so insecure, even occasionally defensive, about how he will be remembered?
 ''I have no idea how my tenure was looked at,'' he said. ''I mean I think there are definitely ---- ' He stops. ''I have no idea how my tenure is looked at.'' 
 Part of his uncertainty no doubt comes from a rough period during the middle of his tenure that included a kidney transplant, a financial crisis and yes, the failures of ''On the Town'' (1998) and ''The Wild Party (2000). Those two misconceived Broadway productions cost the Public $12 million to $14 million and dented Mr. Wolfe's stock. 
 The theater's board named Fran Reiter as executive director, to oversee the company's finances, but she did not last, and after the 9/11 disaster, followed by the resignation of two board members, the Public was faced with one of its worst economic situations in years, with a board in danger of fracturing over Mr. Wolfe's leadership. 
 In the end, however, Mr. Wolfe's reputation as a brilliant director and high-profile successes like Elaine Stritch and ''Top Dog,'' saved the day for him. (Mr. Wolfe's predecessor, JoAnne Akalaitis, lasted little more than 18 months.)
 Mr. Wolfe said he found the radical swings in approval ratings vexing, and slightly ridiculous. ''When something happens that's good, its like, 'Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah,'' he said, ''and when it's bad its, 'Oh my God, demon seed, hell, hell, devils, devils.''' 
 For every failure, he said, there was an equal success, noting that he opened Joe's Pub, a hip cabaret-style lounge about the same time that ''On the Town'' was getting pummeled by critics. ''I don't have any regrets about anything that happened,'' he said, ''because ultimately, as an artist, hopefully you're empowered by those experiences.''
 Concentrating on one of Mr. Wolfe's most-talked-about accomplishments, however -- fostering careers of numerous Asian, black and Latino playwrights (see Diana Son, Suzan-Lori Parks, Jose Rivera, Nilo Cruz) -- doesn't really please him either. ''I get incredibly annoyed when the work that I've done gets reduced to, 'And he did plays that brought colored people to the theater,''' he said. ''What I set out to do was the exact opposite, not to exclude anybody but to include.'' 
 But Mr. Wolfe is most put out by the suggestion, made by some critics, that he used the Public to promote his own career.
 ''Let's not be confused,'' he said. ''One of the reasons I was hired is because I had a high-profile career. I think I'm a good director, but also I attracted -- you know, Elaine Stritch cornered me and said, 'People tell me I should work with you.' That's how the show ended up at the Public Theater.'' 
 So, he continued: ''Very frequently I told people I felt like I was the whore standing in the window in Amsterdam luring certain kinds of artists and luring money into the building.'' 
 Mr. Wolfe said he'd never intended to stay at the Public this long -- ''I'd thought I'd be here three to five years,'' he said -- and he wanted to return to a more creative life. He directed the film ''Lackawanna Blues'' for HBO this season and says he feels ''bizarrely, strangely almost instantly comfortable'' making movies. And on this particular afternoon, he was rehearsing with Hugh Jackman for a Las Vegas stage show. 
 Though he's technically gone, Mr. Wolfe will remain a presence at the Public, where he sits on the board. Mr. Eustis, his successor, confirmed it was a smooth transition. ''What I devoutly hope is that the Public Theater will be George Wolfe's nonprofit theatrical home,'' he said.
 Mr. Wolfe had planned, in fact, to direct ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' for the Public this summer, but backed out 10 days ago. ''I was incredibly tired,'' he said in an interview. 
 He is asked again about his impact on the Public, and this time the words come loud and clear. ''Just the sheer visceral, cultural, intellectual energy that has radiated from this building is larger than anybody's limited definition of what was accomplished,'' he said. ''And I feel very, very confident of that.'' 
 And despite all of the politics, and crises, and intrigue, Mr. Wolfe says the decision to move on was his own. He was turning 50 as was the theater and so, he said, ''the poetry is just too, too perfect to pass up.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: George C. Wolfe has left the helm of the Public Theater, but he is already scheduled for an encore there as a director, staging Brecht's ''Mother Courage and Her Children'' next summer led by Meryl Streep. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Public Theater (NYC)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MERYL STREEP (57%); BEN STILLER (57%) Jesse Mckinley; George C Wolfe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



614 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: A German Contender Is Hard to Read

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN and MARK LANDLER; Richard Bernstein reported from Berlin for this article, and Mark Landler from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: BERLIN, May 28 

 BODY:
The pictures in the German papers these days show the contrast. One is of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany in a pose of grim fortitude. In the other Angela Merkel, often shown against a blue backdrop printed with the word ''Better,'' smiles confidently. She looks like the relaxed beneficiary of a political gift -- not just a chance to become chancellor of Germany but to do so a year before anyone thought it would be possible. 
 Since Mr. Schroder declared after his party's drubbing in local elections on May 22 that he wanted to move up national elections, Mrs. Merkel has been in the spotlight. That is not all that unusual: as leader of the main opposition party in Germany, the Christian Democratic Union, she has been a familiar figure here for years, seen on television being interviewed, giving speeches.
 Germans can be pretty sure that she is to the right of Mr. Schroder, more free-market oriented than he is, more likely to chip away at Germany's elaborate social protections. But exactly what kind of chancellor Mrs. Merkel might be is less clear. Many Germans, asked to describe her, fall back on vague notions: she is smart and tough, a shrewd politician -- as well as almost lacking in charisma. 
 But, as the Berliner Zeitung newspaper put it recently, ''Merkel is not easy to identify; it's hard to find out what she wants.'' She has never laid out a detailed alternative program to that of the leftist coalition that, under Mr. Schroder, has governed Germany since 1998. She says she knows how to revitalize the stagnant German economy, but she has offered no plan. She has criticized Mr. Schroder for isolating Germany in foreign policy by, in her view, alienating the United States and half of Europe before the Iraq war, but has not said what she would do differently.
 So what does she want? Is she a German Margaret Thatcher -- as the sobriquet Maggie Merkel suggests -- a radical free market proponent, ready to strip away social protections, deregulate the labor market and battle with the unions? And, in foreign policy, would she turn Germany into a loyal ally of the United States again, perhaps even sending German troops to Iraq? Mrs. Merkel is outside the usual political mold. Most conspicuously, she offers the prospect of becoming the first woman to be chancellor of Germany. 
 She did not rise through party ranks, unlike most prominent German politicians, including Mr. Schroder. She was a physicist in East Germany. Despite the political turmoil and demands for freedom in the former German Democratic Republic, she showed almost no interest in politics until reunification. 
 She is so-so as an orator, better at fine-tuning a complicated program than at announcing grand principles or enunciating a vision. At the same time, in what still seems to surprise many Germans, she has demonstrated the toughness and the shrewdness to get to the top in Germany's male-dominated political game. 
 ''In the recent past, her numerous critics within the party have belittled her, but today nobody is laughing anymore,'' the Suddeutsche Zeitung newspaper wrote. ''Because Merkel during the last years has been able to gain respect, both with delicate and less delicate means, showing tenacity, strong nerves and an ability to get her way politically. Not for nothing she carries the reputation of a political man-eater.''
 But Mrs. Merkel is for many Germans also a refreshing contrast to more standard politicians, respected for her intelligence and her avoidance of histrionics. She also benefits from the lack of popularity of the Social Democrats, whose economic policies have, in the view of many, caused social pain without improving the issue of greatest concern, the 12 percent unemployment rate.
 Mrs. Merkel was born in Hamburg, West Germany, in 1954, but was taken as an infant to Brandenburg, in East Germany, where her father, Horst Kasner, had become a minister in a Protestant church. Butwas no dissident, no East German Vaclav Havel, trying to escape over the Berlin Wall or risking prison by signing political statements. She worked hard, getting a Ph.D. in physics in 1986 and laboring for years at the Institute for Physical Chemistry at the Academy of Sciences in East Berlin.
 After reunification, she won a seat in Parliament in 1991 and became a cabinet minister the next year under Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who became her political mentor, referring to her as ''my girl.'' In 1999, when he and others in the Christian Democratic Union were caught in a financial scandal, Mrs. Merkel, in part because she was seen as an outsider, was elected, almost unanimously, as the party's chairwoman.
 Like Mr. Schroder, Mrs. Merkel operates within the confines of her party and, in her case, with its more centrist partner, the Christian Social Union, which have always accepted keeping unrestricted capitalism in check by regulation and social welfare. Some Germans, therefore, expect little change. ''She is not surrounded by reformers,'' said Klaus F. Zimmermann, the president of the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin. 
 But many Germans who yearn for radical economic change would welcome a Merkel chancellorship; they say she would push harder to reduce extremely high labor costs and eliminate political impediments to high-tech competitiveness. For evidence, they point to a national meeting of her party in 2003 where she embraced a number of changes that went well beyond the measures in Mr. Schroder's program to help the economy, known as Agenda 2010. 
 Norbert Walter, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank, said: ''She's certainly no Maggie Thatcher.'' 
 Her upbringing and education in East Germany tend to color her stands, even if she probably shares some of Mrs. Thatcher's goals, Mr. Walter said. ''It's difficult to read someone like her,'' he said. ''Her gut feelings are clear: she wants real reforms, not incremental moves.''
 The conventional wisdom is that a Chancellor Merkel would be reflexively more pro-American than Mr. Schroder, someone who would not have brought Germany into outright opposition to the United States in the months before the Iraq war. 
 Or, as some analysts sympathetic to Mrs. Merkel put it, she would bring Germany back to the tradition that Mr. Schroder abandoned: a balanced policy of close friendship with the United States, very good relations with France and a strong commitment to the European Union.
 ''No German chancellor would have agreed to send troops to Iraq,'' said Margarita Mathiopoulos, a professor of American foreign policy at the University of Potsdam and a supporter of Mrs. Merkel. ''But unlike Schroder, she would have gone to Washington and said, 'Mr. President, we can't support you with troops, but let's find a way together with Blair and Chirac to find a consensus.''
 What Mrs. Merkel would have, and Mr. Schroder never had, is control of both houses of Parliament. The changes she would decide to push might not inspire the kind of political gridlock that hampered him. And some political specialists contend that most Germans, after four years of economic stagnation, accept the inevitability of fundamental changes to the social welfare state.
 ''If the C.D.U. were to be elected,'' said Holger Schmieding, a German economist at the Bank of America in London, ''I don't think a lot of people would be surprised that there would be some pain to come.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Angela Merkel, leader of the Christian Democratic Union in Germany. (Photo by Herbert Knosowki/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); LIBERALISM (76%); DEREGULATION (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); IRAQ WAR (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Labor; Elections

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (91%); ANGELA MERKEL (91%) Richard Bernstein; Mark Landler; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Germany; Merkel, Angela; Iraq; European Union; France; Germany

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



615 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: California Looks Ahead, and Doesn't Like What It Sees

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
A POPULAR new governor takes office in California, inheriting state finances deep in the red. The economy is in a funk. All the while, hopeful new residents pour into the state, about 500,000 a year, overwhelming the roads, schools and water resources.
 It sounds a lot like Arnold Schwarzenegger sweeping into Sacramento in 2003, except the year was 1959. The governor was Edmund G. (Pat) Brown, who presided over a population explosion that thrust California past New York as the biggest state. 
 Governor Brown has been eclipsed in popular history by the Republican actor who defeated him in 1966, Ronald Reagan. But the two-term Democrat is enjoying a bit of a revival in California political circles these days, as the Schwarzenegger administration reacquaints itself with many of the demographic growing pains Mr. Brown encountered a half-century ago. 
 New state and federal population estimates show California gained 539,000 residents last year and is on track to reach 46 million residents by 2030. That would amount to an increase of 13 million -- roughly the population of Illinois -- in the period following the 2000 census.
 Within the next 25 years, the Census Bureau projected, about a quarter of all Americans will be residing in what will be the three most populous states, California, Texas and Florida. Other big gainers will be North Carolina and Georgia. 
 The population growth and shifts are posing headaches in all of those states. But nowhere are the problems more pronounced -- or familiar -- than in California. With the Department of Finance estimating this month that the state's population had reached 36.8 million, California is already home to one of every eight Americans, the largest share for any state since New York dominated the union on the eve of the Civil War.
 ''This is a hugely important moment,'' said Tom Campbell, California's director of finance. ''There is a need to get the fiscal house in order so we can do the deep, long term and grand.''
 Governor Brown, who died in 1996, had a mixed record in Sacramento, but confronted with an extraordinary human migration, he and his contemporaries responded extraordinarily, creating the state's freeway system, constructing colleges and universities, and spinning a web of aqueducts and canals. 
 Today, many politicians and scholars wonder whether the ever-ballooning state -- California's population is now double that of New York -- is capable of extraordinary things again, or if it has become so huge and hopelessly complex that it is beyond human manipulation.
 ''California needs a meta-narrative, a collective narrative, that realistically faces its growth,'' said Kevin Starr, a historian at the University of Southern California who has written extensively about the state. ''What you hear too much is people in their 50's and 60's saying, 'I'm glad I'm not going to be here.'''
 A statewide survey last year by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California showed most Californians shared that pessimism. It found that only 12 percent of respondents had a great deal of confidence that the state government could plan effectively for the expected influx of newcomers.
 Complicating the planning for the new growth, which is being generated largely by in-state births and foreign immigration, is where it is occurring. The statistics from the Department of Finance show that in percentage terms the fastest-growing counties are away from the urban centers along the coast, as residents settle in places that are cheaper but also poorer and removed from many services.
 Leading the pack is Riverside County, which is east of Los Angeles and reaches to the Arizona border, followed by Placer County, just northeast of Sacramento, and Imperial County, in the southeastern corner along the Mexican and Arizona borders. The Central Valley agricultural counties of Madera, Tuolumne and Kern rank next. If the trends continue, various studies suggest that up to a quarter of the region's farmland could be lost to housing by the middle of this century.
 ''A great challenge is that the growth is now occurring at a more rapid pace in the regions of the state that are less developed, and have less infrastructure in place,'' said Mark Baldassare, the research director at the Public Policy Institute. ''That means it is going to be more expensive to plan for this kind of growth.'' 
 California was presented with a similarly behemoth task after World War II. But the state is more complicated now, with political alignments and financial constraints that create gridlock at every turn. 
 And unlike then, many state officials now seem blinded rather than motivated by the glaring light on the horizon, said Dr. Starr, whose 2004 book, ''Coast of Dreams,'' chronicles California's ups and downs at the end of the 20th century.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has tapped into the nostalgia for the postwar era, recently describing Mr. Brown, a liberal Democrat, as a governor ''I greatly admire.'' And in promising to turn the state around, the governor invoked the Brown legacy in his state of the state speech in January.
 In his weekly radio address two weekends ago, Mr. Schwarzenegger spoke of the state as a ''model for economic power and modern progress'' in the 1950's and 1960's in announcing $1.3 billion in transportation projects approved by voters several years ago.
 ''Our cities are bursting at the seams, too many roads are congested and projects that should be in construction are still on the shelf,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said. ''A champion state cannot have a weak and aging infrastructure. It's time for California to build again in the cities and the counties and everywhere across our state.''
 But partisan alignments in Sacramento have virtually ruled out the sort of cooperation that took place between Governor Brown and Republicans of his era. Republicans today want the state to grow and are often pro-development but oppose new taxes and government spending. Democrats support new taxes and government spending, but often oppose bigger highways, for example, on the grounds that they discourage use of mass transit and encourage urban sprawl. 
 Even when there is agreement across party lines, big-ticket items are hard to pay for. Proposition 13 in 1978 severely restricted property taxes, the state budget is in deficit, and Mr. Schwarzenegger has pledged not to raise income and other taxes, at least not to patch up past problems. 
 Planners and some other analysts say that both sides miss the point. The growth will occur, they say, no matter how hard some Democrats try to control it or some Republicans wait for market forces to accommodate it. 
 The halcyon days of the early 60's might be gone -- new environmental regulations alone make megaprojects unlikely or drag them out for years -- but it is still possible to prevent the frenzied patterns of growth more typically associated with the developing world. 
 ''The planning has been in fits and starts,'' Mr. Baldassare said. ''It needs to take place recognizing that we're not in an era of big government in which we're going to see large projects, or large sums of money, from the federal government.''
 With the vacuum at the top, much of the planning has been picked up by the counties and regional governments most affected by the growth. 
 Here in Sacramento, an association of local governments recently completed a ''Blueprint for the Future'' for the six-county metropolitan region. It included four possible situations, mapped out on software, for traffic, housing density and open space in 2050, when the region is projected to have added 1.7 million people. 
 The plan emphasizes compact developments near mass transit and is projected to save the region about $8 billion in building costs for freeways, utilities and other infrastructure. The problem: unlike the grand projects of Governor Brown's era, this one is entirely voluntary. Some communities have already opted out. 
 Frank Cullen Sr., who was an aide to Mr. Brown for 34 years, said many Californians are now looking back to the future because they long for a system that works.
 ''It's natural,'' Mr. Cullen said. ''I don't care whether you are talking city, county, state or federal, service is not what it used to be. People just want better services.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Build, Build, Build -- In Riverside County, the fastest-growing county in California. (Photo by Ric Francis/Associated Press)(pg. 5)
DENVER (Photo by Jerry Driendl/Getty Images)
MIAMI (Photo by Richard Cummins/Corbis)
ATLANTA (Photo by Business Wire)
 PORTLAND, ORE. (Photo by Corbis)(pg. 1)Chart/Photos: ''The Biggest State, Getting Bigger''California is expected to grow by nearly 13 million people in the next 25 years, according to the Census Bureau. That's equivalent to the current population of these four metropolitan areas combined. (Atlanta, Denver, Miami, and Portland, Ore.)(pg. 1)Chart/Map: ''Ceaseless Sprawl''California is gaining population statewide, but the fastest-growing counties are in the desert south and the still sparsely settled areas of the Central Valley.A planning study of the Sacramento region anticipates vast new areas of development in the next 45 years (mapped at right), much of it in Placer County.Map of California highlighting the fastest-growing counties (by percentage change).1. Riverside2. Placer3. Imperial4. Madera5. Tuolumne6. KernAerial photos also highlight urban areas in and around Placer County in 2000 and (projected) in 2050.(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CENSUS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISTORY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); WATER QUALITY (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Population; Politics and Government; Census

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%) Dean E Murphy; Edmund G (1905-1996) Brown; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; New York State; California

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



616 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Bubble In Florida Waiting to Burst?

BYLINE: By ROBERT JOHNSON

DATELINE: LAKELAND, Fla. 

 BODY:
ERIC SITCHERAN, a New York City banker, has been researching the Florida housing market since 1999, looking for just the right time and place to buy. He waited through the uncertainties after Sept. 11 and delayed again as four hurricanes struck the state last year.
 While waiting, Mr. Sitcheran, 60, and his wife, Dawn, who are from Queens, and who plan to retire this summer, watched Florida housing prices outpace the increases across the nation. Hoping the market would take a breather long enough for them to decide on the right spot and builder, they nervously kept up with news about shortages of building materials and labor, dwindling inventories of available homes and lengthening delivery times for new construction. 
 ''We kicked the tires a long time,'' Mr. Sitcheran said. ''In an escalating market like this, it's hard to be patient. At the same time, you're leery of jumping in right when the bubble bursts.'' 
 After all, when the nation's expert on ''irrational exuberance'' in the dicey world of securities wades in to warn about housing prices, as Alan Greenspan did recently, the jitters may be justified. Mr. Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, cautioned about ''a little froth in this market.'' And while he did not perceive a national bubble, he did say, ''It's hard not to see that there are a lot of local bubbles.''
 Florida could be one of those. The state's median price for homes hit a record $218,600 in April, a 26 percent increase over the same month last year. That compares with a 15.1 percent increase in the national median price, to $206,000, over the same period. 
 Yet, despite warnings of a bubble, the inventory of available houses is down from a year ago, which seems like a reasonable cause for price increases. With builders in some areas unable to keep up with demand for new construction, the residential real estate game has a certain musical-chairs quality these days. Buyers may feel rushed, but they still need to look before they leap. 
 The Sitcherans finally picked a lot and a builder's floor plan last December. Their $350,000 single-family house here in Lakeland, which is between Tampa and Orlando, was finished in early May.
 While the rise in home prices still hasn't taken a breather, Mr. Sitcheran said he can finally relax, and move into his new home. But while he was shopping for a place, he heard ''horrendous tales,'' he said. 
 ''You just hope it won't happen to you,'' he said. Among the dark stories circulating around Florida: builders taking advantage of escalator clauses in contracts to raise prices on homes under construction, or switching lower-cost houses to less desirable lots when other customers bid up choice locations. Some builders have simply canceled contracts altogether, explaining to customers that costs are rising too fast to build for the agreed-upon price.
 The hurricane season officially starts on Wednesday in the precise world of meteorological record keeping. Last year's four hurricanes disrupted the plans of builders and home buyers, and real estate agents say the storms may well have kept prices from rising even faster, discouraging some Northerners -- at least temporarily -- from chancing such volatile weather.
 The hurricanes contributed to price increases as builders scrambled for materials and workers were absorbed by repairs to existing homes. Thousands of Florida homeowners are still awaiting repairs. 
 Even if builders have enough materials, there may be no one to work with them. ''Every day, I'm in need of a subcontractor that I can't find,'' said David Pelletz, president of Westfield Homes in Tampa. One result is that the building cycle on his houses, priced from $130,000 to $700,000, has risen by one-third, to six months during the last year. ''If someone came to me today and said, 'I want a home to be ready by next September so I can move to Florida and put my children in school down here,' I couldn't do it,'' he said.
 Longer construction timetables make some builders nervous about locking in prices. Escalator clauses have become more common, allowing for increases as costs rise. Another alternative that was unthinkable to some builders until lately is to simply return deposits on homes that are not yet built and explain that a new price list will be available closer to the completion date.
 ''Some of the high-rise condominium builders have a two-year construction cycle,'' said Toni Pacelli-Hinkley, executive director of the Builders Association of South Florida, in Miami Lakes. ''Who knows what prices will be by then? So some of those developers have had to cancel deals and tell people they will have to pay more.''
 Meanwhile, this year's hurricane forecast is for at least seven storms, which would be above-average activity. No one at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is predicting that any of those hurricanes will necessarily strike Florida.
 If the state suffers major property damage from even one hurricane this year, that would roil the Florida housing market. But would it help to burst the bubble by discouraging relocation, or make the shortage of available homes more severe? 
 ''I think more hurricanes would drive prices up faster,'' said Mike Hickman, president of Hickman Homes in Lakeland, which built Mr. Sitcheran's house. Some people may delay moving plans, he said, but not cancel them altogether. ''One reason these hurricanes are such big news is that we don't usually have so many -- the public realizes that,'' he said.
 Mr. Sitcheran, at least, did. ''They say that all those hurricanes last year were a once-in-a-century thing,'' he said. ''I don't think that should keep you away.''
 And Mr. Hickman, past president of the Florida Association of Home Builders, is experiencing heavy demand in Lakeland. For much of the last 20 years that he has been developing subdivisions, most customers appeared only after he put in roads, some model homes and a landscaped entrance. 
 But these days Mr. Hickman is getting deposits on his planned 600-home Morgan Creek Preserve development even though he hasn't built a single street, let alone a house there. ''I'm not even quoting prices yet,'' he said, ''but people just want to put down a deposit and lock the price on lots,'' which range from one-third to one-half acre. Prices have risen in Morgan Creek by 20 percent, to $55,000, just since January. Mr. Hickman attributes the increase to ''development and material costs, including the rising price of oil.'' 
 Having customers willing to pay higher prices doesn't mean Mr. Hickman can build any faster. He estimates that he won't be able to start any houses in Morgan Creek Preserve until the end of summer.
 But that doesn't worry Mr. Sitcheran, who feels he's sitting pretty with his new house in Mr. Hickman's nearby Highland Hills South development. 
 When the house was finished recently, he had it appraised. ''It came in at $10,000 more than it cost me,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HOT MARKET -- Dawn and Eric Sitcheran, above, plan to retire to Lakeland this summer. Their new home is in the Highland Hills South development, left. Mike Hickman, the developer, says that even though prices continue to rise he can't build houses fast enough to keep pace with growing demand. (Photographs by Chip Litherland for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); WEATHER (72%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) Robert Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



617 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: The Fate of The Nation

BYLINE: By Thomas Powers. 
Thomas Powers is the author, most recently, of ''Intelligence Wars: American Secret History from Hitler to Al Qaeda.''

 BODY:

A MATTER OF OPINION
By Victor S. Navasky.
458 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.
 A HOST of demons followed close on the heels of Victor S. Navasky during the anxious decades when it was his responsibility to maintain life support for America's oldest journal of opinion. Born in 1865 at the end of the Civil War, brainchild of New England abolitionists looking for new wrongs to right, new oppressed classes to raise up, new errors in public policy to admonish and correct, The Nation magazine in its first century and a half has never been far from spending its last dollar. More than once in this lively memoir, Navasky reminds the reader that the magazine lost money in all but three years, but even so it was not the specter of bankruptcy that haunted Navasky most. Nor was it meddlesome patrons who covered the losses, viper-tongued columnists who attacked him in his own publication, touchy readers who cancelled subscriptions when the editor had been too radical or too timid; it wasn't even the queasy apprehension, like a perpetual threat of rain, that someday emerging from the archives of the old Soviet Union there would finally appear an official document offering clear, unambiguous, incontrovertible evidence that the accused Soviet spy, Alger Hiss . . . had lied. 
 No, something even more troubling nagged at Navasky during his decades as editor and now publisher of The Nation -- ''that avatar of capitalism,'' William F. Buckley Jr., who ran his own small journal of opinion, National Review, which Navasky credits with the relentless march of conservatism under Barry Goldwater and Ronald Reagan. Navasky admires many of the writers associated for a time with Buckley's magazine (Joan Didion, Garry Wills, John Leonard) and he fully shares Buckley's faith that the point of a journal of opinion is what it stands for, not whether it makes money. ''A profit?'' Buckley once expostulated, when asked if he thought National Review would ever make one. ''You don't expect the church to make a profit, do you?'' But agreement ends there; on just about every other issue Buckley and Navasky, the avatar of the left, are on opposite sides in the battle of ideas. 
 Navasky's two previous books stake out a position well left of center in the political spectrum. ''Kennedy Justice,'' published in 1971, gave the public its first serious look at the limitations of Robert Kennedy, attorney general during the presidency of his brother, who sometimes shared and always bowed to the cold war manias of J. Edgar Hoover's F.B.I. In ''Naming Names'' (1980) Navasky exhumed the Hollywood heroes and villains who refused to name Communist friends for Congressional inquisitors, or found excuses to knuckle under. Navasky himself was born too late for the political glories and temptations of the Red decade of the 1930's, but he confesses to having a soft spot for the old lefties who sang the ''Internationale'' as they marched off to fight the fascists in Spain in 1936. There was a time when that alone, jumped on by a local candidate for Congress, would have been enough to get an adjunct professor fired from a community college.
 Soft spot notwithstanding, Navasky is no Communist. ''I was, I guess, what would be called a left liberal,'' he writes, ''although I never thought of myself as all that left.'' What does that mean? ''I believed in civil rights and civil liberties, I favored racial integration, I thought responsibility for the international tensions of the cold war was equally distributed between the United States and the U.S.S.R.''
 A surer guide to the soul of Victor Navasky is this book, which offers a spirited defense of the place of robust debate in any free society while describing the growing barriers to making ends meet for even the most frugal attempt to put alternative views on American newsstands. The very word newsstand suggests the magnitude of the problem; outside a handful of cities there aren't any, and in most parts of the country a copy of The Nation can be found only at the library, maybe, or in the local Borders or Barnes & Noble -- if a salesperson on the premises has any idea where it is to be found among the hundreds of computer, surfing, bow-hunting, cooking, business and biker mags. 
 Anybody who has ever dreamed of starting a magazine, or worried that the country is losing the ability to speak seriously to itself, should read ''A Matter of Opinion.'' Navasky has been dreaming about the one and worrying about the other since he went to Swarthmore in the early 1950's. With the exception of a brief association with The New York Times, he has devoted his life to small publications -- the Swarthmore Phoenix, Berrow's Worcester Journal, The Alaska Nugget, The 53rd Infantry News -- learning the ropes until he felt ready to start his own magazine. He was attending Yale Law School at the time, but went ahead anyway. He called it Monocle, and he did everything wrong from a newsdealer's point of view -- gave it a weird shape, changed the price from one issue to the next, published when the mood struck. He once asked Playboy's associate publisher how much it would cost to make Monocle into a monthly. The answer: ''$500,000 -- but if you have $500,000, why would you want to start a magazine?'' 
 Navasky didn't have the money but tried anyway. ''Now why, you may ask, would a serious young man . . . give up a promising legal career . . . for a satire magazine?'' He gives three answers: he wasn't serious, the career was not promising, and ''I believed in satire as a kind of social criticism and I saw our countertrendy, irreverent magazine as part of an irreverence boomlet, a modest voice of protest from within the so-called silent generation.''
 Here stands revealed the true Navasky: a man of steely purpose with a mischievous streak, a child's inability to leave pompousness unpricked, a moralist's dislike of complacency, a rat terrier's instinct for the ankle of received wisdom. Monocle was a huge success with a handful of readers, and Navasky's passion to keep it going prepared him for the Sisyphean task of accepting responsibility for The Nation. No general, no king, no pope, it may be said, ever accepted his duty more seriously, or carried it out less solemnly. ''A Matter of Opinion'' deserves shelf space beside George Gissing's ''New Grub Street'' for its account of the lives of the inky wretches who fill the columns of little magazines with big thoughts, and at times it is as funny as Evelyn Waugh's ''Scoop.'' A huge cast of familiar names troops through Navasky's memoir, making cracks and hurling insults or roses from soapbox and barricade. Truman Capote ordering a martini, the Argentine dissident Jacobo Timerman volunteering to be tortured on television and Christopher Hitchens entering a lecture hall are particularly notable.
 But it is the fate of The Nation, and of feisty magazines, that concerns Navasky here. His account of what it takes to keep them going is wonderfully complete, a kind of primer, detailed as a county road map, on the practical, political, economic and diplomatic challenges of running a money-losing magazine by persuading men with millions to maintain a literary pulpit for a scribbling rabble mad about everything, while somehow convincing the oft-provoked patrons to bite their tongues. No progressive teacher of toddlers was ever more permissive, but two things at The Nation Navasky would not permit -- editorial meddling by the patron of the day, and public admission that it was Whittaker Chambers who told the truth and Alger Hiss who lied. 
 There is more about the Hiss case in this book than you might expect, considering the fact that no serious cold war historian now questions the penetration of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's administration by Soviet spy rings, or that Hiss lied about knowing one of the spy handlers. Navasky has often marched to the sound of the guns in this ancient controversy and his appetite is undiminished now. Why does he still care? My guess is it has a little to do with his soft spot for the Old Left, and a lot to do with pure stubborn refusal to concede he believed the wrong man. 
 Of course anybody can be wrong -- indeed, sometimes nearly everybody can be wrong -- but Navasky's inflexibility on this point goes some distance toward explaining why Buckley's conservative National Review looms over this memoir like the ghost of Christmas Future. The two editors were both sharp, both eager to shape national politics, both quick to spot talent, both ready to let writers say the same thing over and over until the world began to take notice. But conservatives, not ''left liberals'' or any other kind of liberals, occupy the seats of power in Washington. Something about the ''old'' in Old Left helps explain how this happened. Navasky is undaunted; his strategy for dealing with the long eclipse is without guile: never let up, open his pages to writers who can sense Republican blood in the water, and keep The Nation going.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Andre Carrilho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); COLD WAR (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); LITERATURE (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); ESPIONAGE (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (71%) Thomas Powers; Victor S Navasky

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



618 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Hear a Pop? Watch Out

BYLINE: By Anna Bernasek

 BODY:
NOW that even Alan Greenspan is talking about ''froth'' in real estate markets, how concerned should people be -- not just about the value of their own homes, but about the entire country? 
 After all, we just had a big stock market bust and it barely dented the economy. Outside of brokers, speculators, and a few unlucky sellers, would a real estate crash really matter to the country as a whole?
 In a word, yes. To understand why, first look at how pervasive the effects of real estate are throughout the economy. 
 Start with the so-called wealth effect. If people tend to spend more when their net worth increases, they'll spend less when it decreases. Economists use this rule of thumb: a $1 change in household wealth leads to a roughly 5-cent change in consumer spending. By that measure, a 10 percent decline in real estate prices would knock about half a percent off the gross domestic product.
 Even more significant for the economy, though, would be a collapse in home equity lending. The industry has been booming as housing prices have soared. But if prices stop rising, new borrowing against home equity will drop, and may disappear.
 That is important, because home equity lending amounted to more than $200 billion last year -- or nearly 2 percent of the economy, according to Economy.com, a research group based outside Philadelphia. If all that borrowing -- which freed up cash that was spent on new furniture, appliances, vacations, cars and the like -- simply vanished, the effect could be large enough all by itself to send the economy into recession.
 But that's not all. The housing sector has even broader effects on the economy, by some estimates accounting for 25 percent of all activity. A decline in property values would most likely lead to declines in other industries, like construction, brokerage, banking and insurance. And these are important for future growth. Construction, for example, amounts to 4 percent to 5 percent of the economy, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. 
 Then there's banking. Because of the leverage associated with real estate, a fall in values would affect banks and other lenders. It would probably lead to tightened credit standards, less lending and higher interest rates. If lenders begin to suffer steep losses, there is always the danger of financial contagion, in which problems at one institution ripple out to others it does business with.
 And there's a new wild card for the economy. In 2004, adjustable-rate mortgages made up a third of new mortgage originations. No one knows what the effect of the widespread use of A.R.M.'s would be in a down market. A climb in interest rates, of course, would put downward pressure on real estate prices, but A.R.M. borrowers would feel the pinch rapidly. If those borrowers started to default, lenders would be hurt.
 Adding it all up, it's easy to see how a drop in real estate prices would spell trouble for the economy. To put that in perspective, the International Monetary Fund conducted a detailed study in 2003 that assessed the potential economic impact of a property slump. Reviewing the experience in the United States and 13 other industrialized countries, the I.M.F. found that a real estate bust is far more dangerous to the economy than a stock market bust. 
 The I.M.F. calculated that a housing-price decline less than half as large as a decline in stock prices typically causes twice as big a drag on the economy and that its effects last twice as long as those of a stock market crash. 
 Just how big a decline was the I.M.F. looking at? The I.M.F. compared a 14 percent decline in real housing prices with a 37 percent decline in stock market prices -- roughly the same size as the post-2000 stock market fall in the United States. The study's findings suggest that a housing crash could cause twice the damage, and for twice as long, as the last recession in the United States. While such a large decline in housing prices might come as a shock to Americans, the I.M.F. found that similar busts happen every 20 years, on average, in the countries studied.
 The Yale economist Robert J. Shiller, who studies the housing market, agrees. His research leads him to believe that the I.M.F. conclusions apply directly to the United States economy. 
 So if a housing bubble is a bigger risk to the economy than a stock market bubble, what can be done to prevent it from bursting?
 The most attractive way for policy makers to cool the housing market would be to put pressure on lenders to tighten their credit standards. Some small steps in this direction have already been taken: Regulators have issued new guidelines on home equity lending, and new rules on first-mortgage loans are expected to follow soon. 
 Recently, the Federal Reserve has also been trying a second approach: talking up long-term interest rates. Because the Fed doesn't control long-term rates directly, it relies on such indirect means to influence the long end of the market. So far, despite rising short-term rates, long-term rates have remained fairly steady. By drawing attention to that disparity and indicating that extremely low long-term rates aren't sustainable, the Fed has been trying to nudge the long end of the market toward higher rates.
 Some economists would suggest additional steps. According to Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, the most effective way the Fed could influence long term rates would be to drop the language of ''measured'' tightening in its policy statements. Mr. Zandi says he believes that this would introduce uncertainty among lenders who have become too complacent.
 If all that fails, the Fed is left with a blunt instrument: further increases in short-term rates. And that approach may be as likely to cause problems as to avoid them.
 So the situation calls for subtle judgment, steely persistence and a tough hide. Just the kind of challenge that Mr. Greenspan has become famous for handling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); INTEREST RATES (84%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%) Housing; Mortgages; United States Economy

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



619 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2929 words

HEADLINE: When the Joneses Wear Jeans

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: BEACHWOOD, Ohio 

 BODY:
It was 4:30 p.m., sweet hour of opportunity at the Beachwood Place Mall.
 Shoppers were drifting into stores in the rush before dinner, and the sales help, as if on cue, began a retail ritual: trying to tell the buyers from the lookers, the platinum-card holders from those who could barely pay their monthly minimum balance. 
 It is not always easy. Ellyn Lebby, a sales clerk at Saks Fifth Avenue, said she had a customer who regularly bought $3,000 suits but ''who looks like he should be standing outside shaking a cup.'' 
 At Oh How Cute, a children's boutique, the owner, Kira Alexander, checks out shoppers' fingernails. A good manicure usually signals money. ''But then again,'' Ms. Alexander conceded, ''I don't have nice nails and I can buy whatever I want.'' 
 Down the mall at the Godiva chocolate store, Mark Fiorilli, the manager, does not even bother trying to figure out who has money. Over the course of a few hours, his shoppers included a young woman with a giant diamond ring and a former airplane parts inspector living off her disability checks.
 ''You can't make assumptions,'' Mr. Fiorilli said.
 Social class, once so easily assessed by the car in the driveway or the purse on the arm, has become harder to see in the things Americans buy. Rising incomes, flattening prices and easily available credit have given so many Americans access to such a wide array of high-end goods that traditional markers of status have lost much of their meaning. 
 A family squarely in the middle class may own a flat-screen television, drive a BMW and indulge a taste for expensive chocolate.
 A wealthy family may only further blur the picture by shopping for wine at Costco and bath towels at Target, which for years has stocked its shelves with high-quality goods. 
 Everyone, meanwhile, appears to be blending into a classless crowd, shedding the showiest kinds of high-status clothes in favor of a jeans-and-sweatsuit informality. When Vice President Dick Cheney, a wealthy man in his own right, attended a January ceremony in Poland to commemorate the liberation of Nazi death camps, he wore a parka.
 But status symbols have not disappeared. As luxury has gone down-market, the marketplace has simply gone one better, rolling out ever-pricier goods and pitching them to the ever-loftier rich. This is an America of $130,000 Hummers and $12,000 mother-baby diamond tennis bracelet sets, of $600 jeans, $800 haircuts and slick new magazines advertising $400 bottles of wine. 
 Then there are the new badges of high-end consumption that may be less readily conspicuous but no less potent. Increasingly, the nation's richest are spending their money on personal services or exclusive experiences and isolating themselves from the masses in ways that go beyond building gated walls. 
 These Americans employ about 9,000 personal chefs, up from about 400 just 10 years ago, according to the American Personal Chef Association. They are taking ever more exotic vacations, often in private planes. They visit plastic surgeons and dermatologists for costly and frequent cosmetic procedures. And they are sending their children to $400-an-hour math tutors, summer camps at French chateaus and crash courses on managing money.
 ''Whether or not someone has a flat-screen TV is going to tell you less than if you look at the services they use, where they live and the control they have over other people's labor, those who are serving them,'' said Dalton Conley, an author and a sociologist at New York University. 
 Goods and services have always been means to measure social station. Thorstein Veblen, the political economist who coined the phrase ''conspicuous consumption'' at the beginning of the last century, observed that it was the wealthy ''leisure class,'' in its ''manner of life and its standards of worth,'' that set the bar for everyone else.
 ''The observance of these standards,'' Veblen wrote, ''in some degree of approximation, becomes incumbent upon all classes lower in the scale.''
 So it is today. In a recent poll by The New York Times, fully 81 percent of Americans said they had felt social pressure to buy high-priced goods. 
 But what Veblen could not have foreseen is where some of that pressure is coming from, says Juliet B. Schor, a professor of sociology at Boston College who has written widely on consumer culture. While the rich may have always set the standards, Professor Schor said, the actual social competition used to be played out largely at the neighborhood level, among people in roughly the same class.
 In the last 30 years or so, however, she said, as people have become increasingly isolated from their neighbors, a barrage of magazines and television shows celebrating the toys and totems of the rich has fostered a whole new level of desire across class groups. A ''horizontal desire,'' coveting a neighbor's goods, has been replaced by a ''vertical desire,'' coveting the goods of the rich and the powerful seen on television, Professor Schor said.
 ''The old system was keeping up with the Joneses,'' she said. ''The new system is keeping up with the Gateses.'' 
 Of course only other billionaires actually can. Most Americans are staring across a widening income gap between them and the very rich, making such vertical desire all the more unrealistic. ''There is a bigger gap between the average person and what they are aspiring to,'' Professor Schor said. 
 But others who study consumer behavior say that the wanting and getting of material goods is not just a competitive exercise. In this view, Americans care less about emulating the top tier than about simply having a fair share of the bounty and a chance to carve out a place for themselves in society.
 ''People like having stuff, and stuff is good for people,'' said Thomas C. O'Guinn, a professor of advertising at the University of Illinois who has written textbooks on marketing and consumption. ''One thing modernity brought with it was all kinds of identities, the ability for people to choose who you want to be, how you want to decorate yourself, what kind of lifestyle you want. And what you consume cannot be separated from that.''

Falling Prices, Rising Debt
 Throughout the mall in this upscale suburb of Cleveland, high-priced merchandise was moving: $80 cotton rompers at Oh How Cute, $40 scented candles at Bigelow Pharmacy. And everywhere, it seemed, was the sound of cellphones, one ringing out with a salsa tune, another with bars from Brahms.
 Few consumer items better illustrate the democratization of luxury than the cellphone, once immortalized as the ultimate toy of exclusivity by Michael Douglas as he tromped around the 1987 movie ''Wall Street'' screaming into one roughly the size of a throw pillow.
 Now, about one of every two Americans uses a cellphone; last year, there were 176 million subscribers, almost eight times the number a decade ago, according to the market research firm IDC. The number has soared because prices have correspondingly plummeted, to about an eighth of what they were 10 years ago.
 The pattern is a familiar one in consumer electronics. What begins as a high-end product -- a laptop computer, a DVD player -- gradually goes mass market as prices fall and production rises, largely because of the cheap labor costs in developing countries that are making more and more of the goods. 
 That sort of ''global sourcing'' has had a similar impact across the American marketplace. The prices of clothing, for example, have barely risen in the last decade, while department store prices in general fell 10 percent from 1994 to 2004, the federal government says.
 Even where luxury-good prices have remained forbiddingly high, some manufacturers have come up with strategies to cast more widely for customers, looking to middle-class consumers, whose incomes have generally risen in recent years; the median family income in the United States grew 17.6 percent from 1983 to 2003, when adjusted for inflation. 
 One way makers of luxury cars have tapped into this market is by introducing cheaper versions of their cars, trying to lure younger, less-affluent buyers in the hope that they may upgrade to more prestigious models as their incomes grow. 
 Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Audi already offer cars costing about $30,000 and now plan to introduce models that will sell for about $25,000. Entry-level luxury cars are the fastest growing segment of that industry. 
 ''The big new trend that is coming to the U.S. is 'subluxury' cars,'' said David Thomas, editor of Autoblog, an online automotive guide. ''The real push now is to go a step lower, but the car makers won't say 'lower.'''
 The luxury car industry is just one that has made its products more accessible to the middle class. The cruise industry, once associated with the upper crust, is another. 
 ''The cruise business has totally evolved,'' said Oivind Mathisen, editor of the newsletter Cruise Industry News, ''and become a business that caters to moderate incomes.'' The luxury end makes up only 10 percent of the cruise line market now, Mr. Mathisen said.
 Yet today's cruise ships continue to trade on the vestiges of their upper-class mystique, even while offering new amenities like on-board ice skating and wall-climbing. Though dinner with the captain may be a thing of the past, the ships still pamper guests with spas, boutiques and sophisticated restaurants.
 All that can be had for an average of $1,500 a week per person, a price that has gone almost unchanged in 15 years, Mr. Mathisen said. The industry has kept prices down in part by buying bigger ships, the better to accommodate a broader clientele. 
 But affordable prices are only one reason the marketplace has blurred. Americans have loaded up on expensive toys largely by borrowing and charging. They now owe about $750 billion in revolving debt, according to the Federal Reserve, a six-fold increase from two decades ago.
 That huge jump can be traced in part to the credit industry's explosive growth. Over the last 20 years, the industry became increasingly lenient about whom it was willing to extend credit to, more sophisticated about assessing credit risks and increasingly generous in how much it would let people borrow, as long as those customers were willing to pay high fees and risk living in debt. 
 As a result, to take one example, millions of Americans who could not have dreamed of buying their own homes two decades ago are now doing so in record numbers because of a sharp drop in mortgage interest rates, a surge in the number of mortgages granted and the creation of the sub-prime lending industry, which gives low-income people access to credit at high cost.
 ''Creditors love the term the 'democratization of credit,''' said Travis B. Plunkett, the legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer lobbying group. ''Over all, it has certainly had a positive effect. Many families that never had access to credit now do. The problem is that a flood of credit is now available to many financially vulnerable families and extended in a reckless and aggressive manner in many cases without thought to implications. The creditors say it has driven the economy forward and helped many families improve their financial lives, but they omit talking about the other half of the equation.''

The Marketers' Response
 Marketers have had to adjust their strategies in this fluid world of consumerism. Where once they pitched advertisements primarily to a core group of customers -- men earning $35,000 to $50,000 a year, say -- now they are increasingly fine-tuning their efforts, trying to identify potential customers by interests and tastes as well as by income level.
 ''The market dynamics have changed,'' said Idris Mootee, a marketing expert based in Boston. ''It used to be clearly defined by how much you can afford. Before, if you belonged to a certain group, you shopped at Wal-Mart and bought the cheapest coffee and bought the cheapest sneakers. Now, people may buy the cheapest brand of consumer goods but still want Starbucks coffee and an iPod.''
 Merchandisers, for example, might look at two golfers, one lower middle class, the other wealthy, and know that they read the same golf magazine, see the same advertisements and possibly buy the same quality driver. The difference is that one will be splurging and then play on a public course while the other will not blink at the price and tee off at a private country club.
 Similarly, a middle-income office manager may save her money to buy a single luxury item, like a Chanel jacket, the same one worn by a wealthy homemaker who has a dozen others like it in her $2.5 million house.
 Marketers also know that today's shoppers have unpredictable priorities. Robert Gross, who was wandering the Beachwood mall with his son David, said he couldn't live without his annual cruise. Mr. Gross, 65, also prizes his two diamond pinkie rings, his racks of cashmere sweaters and his Mercedes CLK 430. ''My license plate reads BENZ4BOB,'' he said. ''Does that tell you what kind of person I am?'' 
 But a taste for luxury goods did not stop Mr. Gross, an accountant, from scoffing as David paid $30 for a box of Godiva chocolates for his wife. The elder Mr. Gross had been to a local chocolate maker. ''I went to Malley's,'' he said, ''and bought my chocolate half price.'' 
 Yet virtually no company that has built a reputation as a purveyor of luxury goods will want to lose its foothold in that territory, even as it lowers prices on some items and sells them to a wider audience. If one high-end product has slipped into the mass market, then a new one will have to take its place at the top. 
 Until the early 1990's, Godiva sold only in Neiman Marcus and a few other upscale stores. Today it is one of those companies whose customers drift in from all points along the economic spectrum. Its candy can now be found in 2,500 outlets, including Hallmark card stores and middle-market department stores like Dillard's.
 ''People want to participate in our brand because we are an affordable luxury,'' said Gene Dunkin, president of Godiva North America, a unit of the Campbell Soup Company. ''For under $1 to $350, with an incredible luxury package, we give the perception of a very expensive product.'' 
 But the company is also trying simultaneously to hold on to the true luxury market, which has increasingly been seduced away by small, expensive artisan chocolate makers, many from Europe, that are opening around the country. Two years ago, Godiva introduced its most expensive line ever, ''G,'' handmade chocolates selling for $100 a pound. Today it is available only in holiday seasons and only at selected stores.

The New Status Symbols
 While the rest of the United States may appear to be catching up with the Joneses, the richest Joneses have already moved on.
 Some have slipped out of sight, buying bigger and more lavish homes in neighborhoods increasingly insulated from the rest of Americans. But the true measure of upper class today is in the personal services indulged in.
 Professor Conley, the New York University sociologist, refers to these less tangible badges of status as ''positional goods.'' Consider a couple who hire a baby sitter to pick up their children from school while they both work, he said. Their status would generally be lower than the couple who could pick up their children themselves, because the second couple would have enough earning power to allow one parent to stay at home while the other worked.
 But the second couple would actually occupy the second rung in this after-school hierarchy. ''In the highest group of all is the parent who has a nanny along,'' Professor Conley said. 
 Status among people in the top tier, he said, ''is the time spent being waited on, being taken care of in nail salons, and how many people who work for them.'' From 1997 to 2002, revenues from hair, nail and skin care services jumped by 42 percent nationwide, Census Bureau data shows. Revenues from what the bureau described as ''other personal services'' increased 74 percent.
 Indeed, in some cases, services and experiences have replaced objects as the true symbols of high status. ''Anyone can buy a one-off expensive car,'' said Paul Nunes, who with Brian Johnson wrote ''Mass Affluence,'' a book on marketing strategies. ''But it is lifestyle that people are competing on more now. It is which sports camps do your kids go to and how often, which vacations do you take, even how often do you do things like go work for Habitat for Humanity, which is a charitable expense people can compete with.''
 In the country's largest cities, otherwise prosaic services have been transformed into status symbols simply because of the price tag. In New York last year, one salon introduced an $800 haircut, and a Japanese restaurant, Masa, opened with a $350 prix fixe dinner (excluding tax, tips and beverages). The experience is not just about a good meal, or even an exquisite one; it is about a transformative encounter in a Zen-like setting with a chef who decides what will be eaten and at what pace. And it is finally about exclusivity: there are only 26 seats. Today, one of the most sought-after status symbols in New York is a Masa reservation.
 And that is how the marketplace works, Professor Conley says. For every object of desire, another will soon come along to trump it, fueling aspirations even more.
 ''Class now is really like three-card monte,'' he said. ''The moment the lower-status aspirant thinks he has located the nut under the shell, it has actually shifted, and he is too late. ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Increasingly, the nation's richest are spending on personal services or exclusive experiences. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
BLENDING IN -- With luxury goods going mass-market, new status symbols are emerging, especially in high-end services.
Godiva sells chocolate at 2,500 outlets, including its store on Madison Avenue in Manhattan, above. But its expensive ''G'' line, below, at $100 a pound, is available only in holiday seasons and at selected stores. At left, a Prada take on fashion in its Broadway store. (Photographs by NICOLE BENGIVENO/The New York Times)
(Photos by J.P. Roth and Guilbert Gates/The New York Times
photographs by Bettmann/CORBIS [Mayflower]
The Museum of the City of New York [debutante ball]
White House Historical Association [Great Unwashed]
Bettmann/CORBIS [gold rush]
Bettmann/CORBIS [Gould]
Agence France-Presse [Titanic]
Kino International Corp. [Chaplin]
Bettmann/CORBIS [Spare a Dime]
Associated Press [Honeymooners]
Barton Silverman/The New York Times [Black and White Ball]
Stephen Dunn/Allsport [Switzer]
Agence France-Presse Getty Images [Kerry])(pgs. 16,17)Chart: ''Swells and Neer-Do-Wells: A Class Timeline''1620 -- The Mayflower families arrive. Not in society -- in a boat. They're mainly immigrant farm folk.1776 -- Birth of the nation, and the American dream. Backwoodsmen and gentlemen farmers alike grab their muskets against the monarchical British.1789 -- No Sir: The Constitution prohibits the granting of titles of nobility. Yet Washington's Inaugural features a debutante ball for young ladies of the aristocracy.1829 -- Andrew Jackson invites the Great Unwashed to his inaugural celebration at the White House. They swill whiskey and trash the place. The White House survives
the presidential china doesn't.1835 -- ''Amongst the novel objects that attracted my attention during my stay in the United States, nothing struck me more forcibly than the general equality of conditions.'' -- Alexis de Tocqueville, ''Democracy in America.''1848 -- Karl Marx's ''Communist Manifesto'' offers a world view of class struggle and influences the course of history.1849 -- The American dream goes west as the gold rush begins. Some find fortune
many sift fool's gold.1863 -- Poor Irish immigrants in New York riot over the Civil War draft, which the welloff can evade by paying $300 or hiring a substitute.1865 -- The 13th Amendment abolishes slavery. It will take the civil rights movement a century later to propel blacks up the class ladder.1886 -- ''I can hire one half of the working class to kill the other half.'' -- Jay Gould, notorious financier, bragging that he could break any strike.1887 -- A gunsmith and dairy farmer, Louis Keller creates the Social Register.1889 -- The Oklahoma land rush. The nation's expanses ensure that it won't have a landed gentry like Europe's.1890 -- Jacob Riis exposes the misery of life in New York City's slums in his book ''How the Other Half Lives.''1899 -- In ''The Theory of the Leisure Class,'' Thorstein Veblen portrays America's ruling class as Darwinian predators. What feeds the envy of the have-nots? He calls it conspicuous consumption.1908 -- Henry Ford introduces the Model T, a car affordable to the masses. He says it can be had in any color, as long as it's black.1912 -- The Titanic, icon of class divisions, sinks on its maiden voyage. First-class passengers get to the lifeboats first. Third class bears the worst losses.1913 -- The 16th Amendment ushers in the modern income tax. Initially only the rich are required to pay. That doesn't last long.1914 -- Charlie Chaplin makes his American debut as the LittleTramp. For decades he makes the rich look ridiculous onscreen.1920 -- Second-class no more: The 19th Amendment grants women the right to vote.1925 -- ''The Great Gatsby,'' F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel of highliving excess before the Crash of 1929.1932 -- ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?'' becomes the signature tune of the Great Depression.1935 -- The New Deal ushers in Social Security, a safety net for the elderly.1938 -- The Fair Labor Standards Act establishes a minimum wage. Burger-flipping will never be the same.1945 -- The G.I. Bill of Rights guarantees war veterans paid tuition with a living allowance. The private university is now within reach of Beetle Bailey.1947 -- Levittown is established on Long Island. Newly married veterans can buy cookiecutter middleclass castles for $6,990 -- complete with lawn to water, cut and weed.1948 -- James Conant, president of Harvard, ushers in wide use of the Scholastic Aptitude Test, or SAT, opening elite colleges to students of merit regardless of income. ''The Gentleman's C'' for the well-born goes the way of the raccoon coat.1955 -- ''The Honeymooners'' makes its debut as a TV series. In the working-class sitcom, upward mobility consists of Ralph Kramden telling his wife: ''One of these days, Alice: Bang! Zoom! To the moon!''1964 -- President Lyndon B. Johnson's ''war on poverty'' expands the government's role providing housing, education and health care to the poor.1966 -- The Black and White Ball. Truman Capote invites a Who's Who of the upper crust to the Plaza Hotel in New York. Some call it the ''party of the century.''1968 -- Richard M. Nixon, a Republican, wins the presidency by pursuing the ''silent majority,'' luring middleclass Americans to the onetime party of big business.1984 -- ''The Cosby Show'' mirrors the rising class status of blacks. Cliff Huxtable is a doctor, his wife is a lawyer and a daughter attends Princeton.1986 -- ''Some people are born on third base and go through life thinking they hit a triple.'' -- Barry Switzer, football coach.1989 -- The Berlin Wall falls. Marxism's vision of a classless society is out
 global capitalism is in.1996 -- President Bill Clinton signs a bill ''ending welfare as we know it.'' It's meant to push the poor off the dole and up the class ladder.2004 -- John Kerry, aloof son of privilege, muffs presidential chances by windsurfing off Nantucket. George W. Bush, folksy son of privilege, muffs English syntax and is re-elected.(pgs. 16, 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); WATER SPORTS (74%); BASEBALL (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (63%) Consumer Behavior; Surveys and Series; United States Economy

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (76%); BILL CLINTON (66%); DICK CHENEY (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); RICHARD NIXON (50%) Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



620 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: There's Democracy, and There's an Oil Pipeline

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SAMUEL BODMAN, the new secretary of energy, led the United States delegation to Azerbaijan last week to celebrate a huge moment in America's effort to diversify its sources of oil: The opening of a pipeline that will carry Caspian oil to the West, on a route that avoids Russia and Iran. 
 Mr. Bodman delivered a message from President Bush: ''As Azerbaijan deepens its democratic and market economic reforms, this pipeline can help generate balanced economic growth, and provide a foundation for a prosperous and just society that advances the cause of freedom.''
 Just a few days earlier, the Azerbaijani police beat pro-democracy demonstrators with truncheons when opposition parties, yelling ''free elections,'' defied the government's ban on protests against President Ilham Aliyev. Mr. Aliyev is one of President Bush's allies in the war on terror, even though he won a highly suspect election to succeed his father, a former Soviet strongman. 
 Every week, the White House seems to find itself in a balancing act between promoting democracy, on one hand, and supporting friends in combustible but strategically important parts of the world. In recent days, the issue has been how hard to press for an international inquiry into the massacre of civilians in Uzbekistan this month; or how to press Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, into facing real challengers in his country's coming election; or how to challenge the resurgence of central control in Russia and China while gaining their cooperation to stop nuclear proliferation.
 It all has shades of the cold war. From 1946 until the fall of the Berlin Wall, American presidents embraced -- sometimes unhappily, sometimes enthusiastically -- dictators from Latin America to the Philippines to South Korea in the name of stopping Communism.
 Now, even brutal leaders have discovered that if they cooperate in the war on terror Washington is unlikely to squeeze them too hard, or at least too publicly, on other issues. Pakistan has led in this strategy. When President Pervez Musharraf decided late last year not to relinquish his military posts, as he had once promised to do, no one from the White House denounced him.
 The president and his aides have never said it would be easy to reconcile Mr. Bush's clarion call for democratic change worldwide with reality on the ground. But at least one past member of the administration says they have made a basic mistake. 
 ''Look, I was part of the incubation of this policy,'' said Richard N. Haass, who was head of policy planning in the State Department from 2001 to 2003, referring to the decision to make democracy a major theme of the Bush presidency. ''But I don't think you can make it the controlling issue. The administration has set itself up for inconsistency.'' In fact, Mr. Bush has started to talk about the need for patience as Americans wait for democracy to take hold elsewhere. His wife, Laura, took up the theme this month on a trip to the Middle East. Asked about the difficulties of mounting any real challenge to President Mubarak in Egypt, she said, ''To act like you can just go from here to there overnight is naive.'' Full democracy, she said, is ''not easy and we know that it's, in many cases, not even possible.''
 Mrs. Bush went further in that comment than most White House policy makers will, at least in public.
 But Stephen R. Sestanovich, who served as the Clinton administration's specialist on the former Soviet republics in the 1990's, said it is becoming clear that not all revolutions are what Americans would like them to be. 
 ''Georgia and Ukraine were good examples of the model working as we think it should: Popular outrage, the right result,'' he said. ''But Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan show you something different, the prospect of sheer chaos.'' In the first, President Askar Akayev fled, leaving competing groups to fight each other. In the second, Mr. Sestanovich said, President Islam Karimov is dealing with ''the complete lack of popular confidence'' after his troops shot hundreds of civilians after an armed uprising that he said was the work of Islamic terrorists -- his favorite choice of culprits. 
 Russia distanced itself from Mr. Karimov, and he seemed unlikely to win another invitation to the White House, which he visited after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But he may not need the American welcome. Last week in Beijing, the Chinese gave him a 21-gun salute and praise for his steadfastness against ''the three forces of extremism, terrorism and separatism.'' By the time Mr. Karimov headed home, he had a deal for a $600 million joint venture in oil. 
 That, in short, is the new Great Game Americans find themselves playing in Central Asia: Competing with the Chinese for oil supplies; with the Russians for influence in their backyard; and all the while talking about spreading democracy. 
 Paul Goble, an expert on the former Soviet Union who used to work for the State Department, summarized the conundrum in the region this way: ''As soon as you get rid of the ex-Communist thugs, you will get Muslim governments there.''
 That is one reason Mr. Bush takes every chance to highlight the success stories, even at the risk of offending Russia. 
 Mr. Bush's aides describe him as deeply engaged in the strategy, down to choosing exactly where he would go on his five-nation trip earlier this month. On that trip, the president spoke from the square in Tbilisi where Georgians staged demonstrations that ousted a leader in 2003. The warning he was sending to Vladimir V. Putin of Russia about centralizing power in the Kremlin was clear, if never explicitly stated.
 But Mr. Goble remembers how thinly democracy was consolidated in the region after the Berlin Wall fell, despite American wishes. ''Our tendency is to declare victory and move on,'' he said. ''It doesn't work that way.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cleanup Time -- Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman, left, and leaders from Central Asia and the Caucasus after leaving handprints during the opening in Azerbaijan of a new pipeline. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)Chart/Map: ''U.S. Interests in a Treacherous Neighborhood''GEORGIAPRESIDENT: Mikheil Saakashvili, who was elected after nonviolent protests ousted Georgia's first president in 2003.U.S. INTEREST: The orderly flow of oil through the Caucasus pipeline, and access to Azerbaijan.POLITICAL MINEFIELD: Azerbaijani and Armenian minorities in three autonomous regions promote secessionist movements, and President Saakashvili has lately taken a harder nationalist line. During a visit by President Bush this month, a grenade was found near a podium he was standing on.KAZAKHSTANPRESIDENT: Nursultan Nazarbayev, in power since 1991.U.S. INTEREST: With oil and gas reserves and good relationships with Western oil companies, Kazakhstan is by far Central Asia's largest country, although its population is thinly dispersed.POLITICAL MINEFIELD: Some experts worry that corruption and sycophancy in the Nazarbayev government could undermine this strategically located country, where Russia and China are vying for influence. President Nazarbayev may respond to turmoil in Uzbekistan by becoming increasingly authoritarian.AZERBAIJANPRESIDENT: Ilham Aliyev, who succeeded his father, a former K.G.B. general, in 2003.U.S. INTEREST: A new pipeline linking the Caspian Sea to the Mediterranean to carry oil to the West through Azerbaijan, Georgia and TurkeyPOLITICAL MINEFIELD Stability in the Caucasus could collapse if war resumes between Azerbaijan and Armenia
chaos could invite Iranian interference. Azerbaijan is largely Shiite Muslim
Armenia is largely Orthodox Christian, like Georgia. Ilham Aliyev is considered more likely to keep the peace than the nationalistic opposition, which claims to be more democratic.TURKMENISTANPRESIDENT: Saparmurat Niyazov, in power since 1991.U.S. INTEREST: Gas reserves, proximity to Afghanistan.POLITICAL MINEFIELD: President Niyazov is aging, ill and, said Paul Goble, an expert on former Soviet republics, a ''fragile totalitarian'' whose rule could end suddenly. He survived an assassination attempt in 2002. The State Department says he governs in a ''Soviet-era authoritarian style''
since 2002, he has tightened his grip and acted bizarrely, declaring diseases illegal and closing hospitals, said Martha Brill Olcott, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.UZBEKISTANPRESIDENT: Islam Karimov, in power since 1991.U.S. INTEREST: A military base was important during the Afghan war in 2001
has some oil and gas. There is evidence that the U.S. has sent terror suspects to Uzbekistan for detention and interrogationPOLITICAL MINEFIELD: The government, which blames Islamic terrorists for all unrest, killed from 167 to 500 people, depending on the source, after armed protesters freed prisoners this month. Experts say Uzbekistan could collapse, risking civil war, which could spread to its neighbors, and disrupt energy exports. Russia has cooled to President Karimov, but he was welcomed warmly last week in China.KYRGYZSTANPRESIDENT: Askar Akayev, in power since 1991, fled the country and resigned after protests in April. New elections are scheduled for July 10.U.S. INTEREST: A military base, useful for operations in nearby Afghanistan.POLITICAL MINEFIELD: The outlook for democracy and stability are unclear. The shape of the new government will likely be decided more by political deal-making than by the voters, says Dr. Olcott. ''There's a job for everybody,'' she said. Meanwhile, Russia and China compete for influence.(Sources by Martha Brill Olcott, Carnegie Endowment
 Paul Goble, former State Department analyst.)Map of Asia and the Middle East highlighting the aforementioned countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); TERRORISM (88%); COLD WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Terrorism; United States International Relations

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (90%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (71%); HOSNI MUBARAK (56%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (56%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CASPIAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AZERBAIJAN (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CHINA (94%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ARMENIA (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); GEORGIA (93%); EGYPT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005



621 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 390 words

 BODY:
UNFRIENDLY SKIES -- A bankruptcy court hearing in Chicago may determine the next step in the continuing battle between United Airlines and its machinists' union. If they fail to reach a deal, the judge could allow United to terminate the old contract and impose terms. If that happens, the union has told its members to be prepared to strike. (Tuesday)
 BIG DEDUCTIBLE -- American International Group will release its much-delayed financial results for 2004. The market is anxiously awaiting the final tally on how much past transactions, deemed to be improperly accounted for by the company, will affect A.I.G.'s value. At the beginning of May, the company said its net worth would be reduced by $2.7 billion, but added a credit of $2.4 billion derived from accounting for derivatives. A.I.G.'s stock has fallen about 26 percent since it said it was the target of various inquiries. (Tuesday)
 RUST NEVER SLEEPS -- Automakers report their May sales numbers in the United States. Will Ford and G.M. continue to struggle as Toyota, Hyundai and other Asian car makers win new customers? (Wednesday)
 JOBS OVER THERE -- Start chilling the schadenfreude. Unemployment numbers for Europe, which have been hovering around 8.8 percent since late 2003, are released. (Wednesday) Despite the weak outlook, the European Central Bank is expected to resist cutting interest rates during its meeting, keeping them at 2 percent. (Thursday) 
 JOBS OVER HERE -- The monthly jobs report has economists playing it safe after a series of zigzags in employment during the first four months of the year -- increasing robustly in one, inching ahead limply the next. The average forecast has job growth in May at roughly 185,000, which is almost exactly the average monthly growth seen over the last year. (Friday)
 LAUGH LINES -- After struggling to replicate the success of ''The Sopranos'' and ''Sex and the City,'' HBO introduces its newest series, ''The Comeback,'' about an aging actress trying to create a second act in Hollywood, which is just what the show's star, Lisa Kudrow, is attempting here. (Sunday)
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- Consumer Confidence for May (Tuesday); construction spending for April (Wednesday); factory orders for April, sales of leading retailers for May, U.S. productivity and jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for May (Friday).


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); RETAILERS (67%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (66%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



622 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

'Good Morning America' Challenges 'Today' for Dominance in the Morning
For decades now, ''Today'' and ''Good Morning America'' have gone at each other like the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox, tracking each other's performance in the Nielsen ratings as if they were morning box scores (CBS's ''The Early Show,'' the Cleveland Indians of the network morning shows, remains a distant third). But lately, ''Good Morning America'' has been displaying an aggressive feistiness -- both on camera and, judging by a visit last Wednesday, backstage as well -- drawn at least partly on a recent rise in its fortunes. More than bragging rights are at stake. Ultimately, the contest is about advertising dollars. [Page C1.]

Scrushy Jury to Resume Deliberations
The jury in the trial of Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of HealthSouth, will resume deliberations after telling the judge in notes last week that it was having trouble reaching a consensus on a conspiracy charge. But the jury could still return guilty verdicts in other charges. [C1.]

Broadcaster Denied Membership in Ombudsman Group
The Organization of News Ombudsmen, which represents nearly a hundred print and broadcast ombudsmen from around the world, has rejected an attempt by two ombudsmen from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to join their organization as full-fledged members, questioning their independence. [C1.]

Low Ratings Aside, a Call for a Contender Rematch
In Tuesday's season finale of ''The Contender,'' NBC's boxing reality show, Sergio Mora, right, defeated Peter Manfredo Jr. in seven rounds, winning $1 million. But viewers were treated to a pummeling of their own during the blow-by-blow commentary, as Sylvester Stallone and Sugar Ray Leonard repeatedly called for a sequel. ''I know the fight's not even over yet,'' Mr. Stallone said roughly 15 minutes into the bout, ''but I gotta start thinking about a rematch.'' ''I think it's natural, Sly,'' Mr. Leonard replied. ''Rematch is natural.'' [C4.]

A Quest for Technology Worthy of 'Star Trek'
A research firm founded by Danny Hillis, a computer architect, and Bran Ferren, an industrial designer and Hollywood special effects wizard, have formed a company to develop products that fans of Star Trek will admire. One such product is a device that can make a public discussion private. [C1.]

A Poor Year for Magazines About Business
Business has been bleak this year for business magazines like Fortune, Forbes and BusinessWeek. Last year, according to Media Industry Newsletter, the big three in business sold just over 10,000 advertising pages, a shadow of the 18,300 they sold in 2000 and even below their 1995 level of more than 11,500 pages sold. Collectively, the three are reporting almost half a billion dollars less in revenues in 2004 than they did in 2000. Those ad revenue numbers are inexact, but still represent a breathtaking hemorrhage. [C1.]

The Da Vinci Code Slips on the Best-Seller Lists
After nearly two years at the top of nearly every best-seller list, ''The Da Vinci Code'' is losing momentum. The novel, by Dan Brown, has fallen to its lowest level ever on the New York Times best-seller list. On Sunday ''The Da Vinci Code'' will be ranked at No.6, the first time since the novel's publication in March 2003 that it has fallen out of the top five. [C2.]

Good Economic Times Can Mean Health Risk
A study by an economist at the University of North Carolina, Greensboro, has found that good economic times can increase risks to health. Rising incomes effectively lower the cost of luxuries like sports cars and restaurant meals that are more fun than they are healthy. [C3.]

An Investment Exception for CNBC Chairwoman
CNBC has allowed its chairwoman to work as a director of a pharmaceutical company and accept stock options despite a policy that forbids its managers and news staff from owning shares in individual companies. [C4.]

Security Video Shows Conrad Black Taking Boxes
A video made by a security camera showed Conrad M. Black, the deposed head of Hollinger International, and two assistants carrying boxes of documents out of his former company's Toronto headquarters. The video was shown last week in Ontario Superior Court during a hearing on a motion filed by Hollinger. [C4.]

Clear Channel in a Stealth Promotional Campaign
What appeared to be a consumer campaign taking potshots stations owned by Clear Channel Communications turned out to be a campaign by the company itself to promote a change in format at one of its stations. [C4.]

When Space Flight Eluded a CNN Anchor
But for the wreck of the shuttle Columbia in early 2003, Miles O'Brien of CNN might have been the first American journalist in space. And it would have taken an unusual deal between CNN and NASA, accompanied by a hefty donation, to do it. [C4.]

Online Travel Industry Tries to Adjust to Maturity
The online travel industry is maturing and Web sites that provide reservations for consumers are jostling to cut costs and add services as their share prices decline. Jeffery H. Boyd, left, president of Priceline.com had to cope with a 10 percent decline in the company share price after reporting a jump in first-quarter bookings that doubled the online industry's average. The company Priceline recently purchased one of Europe's biggest hotel reservations companies, Active Hotels, and Mr. Boyd said new product development is not anywhere near over. [C6.]

Snack Makers Use a Calorie Count to Appeal to Dieters
Makers of popular snacks like Oreos and Pringles have found a new way to appeal to consumers who are trying to lose weight: selling small-portion snacks by their calorie count. Pringles is introducing 100-calorie packs of its signature chips this month. The packages contain reduced-fat Pringles and have 40 fewer calories than one serving of regular Pringles. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); BOXING (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (73%); VERDICTS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); CONSPIRACY (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (64%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (57%)

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (56%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (56%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (56%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



623 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ALL CONSUMING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Warning: If Signs of an Economic Recovery Persist, See Your Doctor Immediately

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
GOOD times seem like they should bring good health. More people have jobs and health insurance when an economy is growing. Fewer people skip visits to the doctor to save money or suffer the severe stress that comes with a layoff. So with job growth now stronger than it has been since 2000, the country can look forward to some vigorous years, it might seem.
 But that is not quite how the world works, some new research has found. In fact, a strong economy should probably come with a warning label. A one-percentage-point fall in the unemployment rate -- which is what has happened since the summer of 2003 -- leads to 12,000 deaths a year in the United States that might not otherwise have happened, according to Christopher J. Ruhm, an economist at the University of North Carolina, Greensboro. 
 When the economy improves, the number of car and workplace accidents rise, as people are on the job and on the road more often. Deaths from heart attacks, flu and pneumonia increase, too. Cancer deaths do not change and suicides fall, but not by nearly enough to overcome the other increases in mortality.
 Smoking rises, as does obesity, during a boom. Physical activity falls. The part of the population that drinks remains the same, but some moderate drinkers become heavy drinkers. 
 Put it all together, and an economic expansion ends up looking like a counterintuitive health risk.
 ''Things don't go uniformly in one direction or the other,'' said Mr. Ruhm, who in recent years has published a flurry of academic articles with titles like, ''Healthy Living in Hard Times.''
 ''Good life events,'' he said, ''don't always lead to good health.''
 The pattern is a testament to the sway that economic incentives hold over consumers, even when they do not realize that they are responding to those incentives. Rising incomes tempt our powers of self-control, effectively lowering the cost of a bottle of good Scotch, a buttery steak Bordelaise and other luxuries that are more enjoyable than healthy. 
 The cost of going for a jog, meanwhile, goes up when an economy is growing and that time could be spent doing paid work. Executives at the New York Sports Club have been surprised to find that their gyms become more popular during recessions. ''You would think that gym memberships would decrease during economic slowdowns, when people don't have as much income,'' said Susan Gerson, a spokeswoman for Town Sports International, which runs the clubs in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Washington.
 But the use of time seems to have a bigger effect on people's habits. Going to a gym when you are out of work, Ms. Gerson said, ''is a good way to get out, to do something.''
 ''If you're having a hard time,'' she said, ''it's a good way to de-stress.''
 Sales of Budweiser, on the other hand, appear to move in the same direction as the economy. In 2001, the most recent recession year by economists' calculations, sales at Anheuser-Busch rose at the slowest pace in the last five years. 
 If it seems surprising that a little less Pilates and a little more beer could quickly cause death, keep in mind that the human body often has a tipping point. Limited changes can have big effects. Heart attacks spike on Monday mornings, for instance, and deaths from cirrhosis dropped sharply once Prohibition began, Mr. Ruhm said.
 He began to study the subject after he came across a number of academic papers that mentioned the health dangers of recessions. But the notion was rarely backed up, so Mr. Ruhm sought out research. In a paper he discovered from the 1920's, the researchers found that health improved during tough times but mentioned that they had a hard time believing their own findings.
 So Mr. Ruhm started doing his own work, trying to isolate the interaction between health and the business cycle and see if the claims he had read were correct. ''Lo and behold, I didn't get that result at all,'' he said. ''The evidence is pretty compelling.''
 Mr. Ruhm does have his doubters. Some epidemiologists say that his brush is too broad and that he would have to break down mortality by sex, age and other factors before they were persuaded. They think the relationship he has found may be mostly coincidence.
 But peer-reviewed academic journals have found the work impressive, and Mr. Ruhm continues to uncover evidence to support his thesis. Working with a medical researcher at a Swedish university, he recently found similar patterns in a group of 23 advanced economies, including Britain, Germany and Japan. 
 Of course, even if his findings eventually become the conventional wisdom, everyone should not start wishing for a prolonged recession. Strong economic growth makes a country wealthier, giving it more resources to invest in research and technology, which will eventually prolong lives. Twelve thousand additional deaths each year is nothing to dismiss. But it is also about equal to the number of Americans who die from cancer every eight days.
 The better lesson might be for individual consumers, instead of policy makers. Think of boom times a little like a protracted version of the holidays. Enjoy it while it lasts, but remember that the human urge to consume should not always be sated.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); PRODUCT LABELING (75%); OBESITY (73%); CANCER (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); FITNESS CENTERS (64%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (53%) United States Economy; Life Styles ; Consumer Behavior; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

COMPANY: TOWN SPORTS INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (83%) University of North Carolina

TICKER: CLUB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (51%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (51%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Christopher J (Prof) Ruhm

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



624 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Pressure on North Korea: U.S. Stealth Jets Sent to South

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY; David E. Sanger and Thom Shanker contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29 

 BODY:
The deployment last week of 15 stealth fighters to South Korea, along with the severing of the American military's only official interaction with North Korea, appears to be part of a new push by the Bush administration to further isolate North Korea despite China's hesitation to join the effort.
 The deployment, confirmed by the Pentagon on Friday after several news reports, came just after the Defense Department said Wednesday that it was suspending the search for soldiers missing in action since the Korean War.
 The search was the Pentagon's only mission inside North Korea and its only formal contact with the country's military. The Pentagon said it acted to ensure American troops' safety in the ''uncertain environment created by North Korea's unwillingness to participate in the six-party talks,'' as a spokesman put it, referring to the lack of negotiations on the North's nuclear arms program over 11 months. 
 Although senior Pentagon officials say the F-117 stealth fighters are part of preparation for a long-planned training exercise, the show of force comes at a delicate moment both militarily and politically. China, South Korea and some experts in the United States have urged the administration to make a more specific offer to North Korea, laying out what it would get in return for giving up its nuclear arms program. Administration officials, however, have suggested in recent interviews that they are headed toward taking a hard line, cracking down on the North's exports of missiles, drugs and counterfeit currency. 
 The United States warned its allies this month that the North might be preparing to test a nuclear weapon. Now senior officials say American intelligence agencies are still monitoring several locations in North Korea where a nuclear test might be held, though they readily concede the evidence that the North will proceed with a test is ''partial.''
 Some officials say they doubt that North Korea's leaders are ready to risk galvanizing its neighbors against it by conducting a test and removing all ambiguity about claims that it has built nuclear weapons.
 ''It's a very tough calculus for the North Koreans,'' said one senior official. 
 In struggling to deal with the North's threats and its demands for concessions in return for coming back to the negotiating table, the Bush administration has sent a series of seemingly mixed messages. President Bush himself has repeatedly said he has no ''intention'' of attacking North Korea. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said several weeks ago that the United States recognized the North as a sovereign state. 
 But she and other senior officials have pointedly reminded the North of the extensive American military presence in South Korea. Now, some officials say, the stealth fighters are an added way of making it clear to Kim Jong Il, the nation's leader, that even though the American military is tied up in Iraq, it can reach his capital, Pyongyang, and the nuclear facilities north of it. 
 North Korea, for its part, on Sunday called the stealth fighter deployment ''a risky prelude to war,'' a term it has often used about American military exercises.
 North Korea walked away from six-nation nuclear disarmament talks last June. While neither the United States nor its allies plan to abandon disarmament talks that were begun almost two years ago, several senior officials involved in the policy discussions said they viewed the current deadlock as untenable. They added that the administration was deep in consultations to find a new strategy to persuade the Koreans to disarm.
 In a change that reflects a failure of the present policy, some officials say they will no longer rely heavily on China to sway the North Koreans. Ms. Rice met with China's leaders in Beijing in March specifically to ask them to pressure North Korea. That pressure has continued. But senior officials say they now realize that China may never be willing to use its leverage over North Korea, which relies on China for much of its food, energy and other resources. 
 The Chinese appear to be perfectly happy to have North Korea ''roll along in this seemingly stable netherworld,'' one official said, rather than risk destabilizing the nation, possibly unleashing a flood of desperate and hungry refugees across its eastern border.
 The officials said another Chinese consideration was that if the North Korean government collapsed, South Korea might claim sovereignty over the North -- placing a well-armed American ally on China's border. 
 Several officials said that in the wide-ranging reappraisal of the administration's strategy toward North Korea, every option was being considered -- possibly including a richer package of security guarantees and economic cooperation if the North came back to negotiations. 
 But in the absence of talks, much of the discussion inside the administration now is about instituting strong punitive measures, including interceptions of any shipments of suspected illicit goods. On Saturday, however, one official said that such an effort ''just won't work if we can't get the Chinese to go along.''
 China opposes a blockade or other new punitive measures and says it is, in fact, pressing North Korea by holding out the promise of a state visit by President Hu Jintao, should North Korea agree to disarm.
 One senior official closely involved in the issue said that even though getting China to cut off trade with North Korea seemed difficult now, ''a good portion'' of the North's foreign exchange ''is from illegal activity.
 ''Increasingly I think the countries of the region are going to recognize that these are unhealthy activities,'' he said, ''and we will act together to try to shut them down.''
 The official also noted that if North Korea went ahead with nuclear testing, it might ''galvanize'' the other parties in the talks into joint action against the North. 
 In August 2003, North Korea agreed to join six-nation talks involving the United States, China, South Korea, Japan and Russia. The last of several sessions took place in Beijing in June 2004. At that meeting, Washington and the other parties offered to provide security guarantees and some aid if North Korea dismantled its nuclear program. 
 North Korea never responded. To date, whenever Ms. Rice and other officials are asked if Washington should offer more to North Korea, they have routinely said they are still waiting for North Korea to respond to the first proposal. 
 But a senior administration official strongly suggested in an interview that Mr. Bush was not about to improve on the offer made last June. 
 Even as the administration accepts a more pessimistic view of China's willingness to help, almost every option under discussion similarly relies on China. For example, should the United States or others take the issue before the United Nations Security Council, American officials and senior diplomats say they worry that China would veto any effort to impose economic sanctions. 
 A senior State Department official said the Chinese ''are genuinely concerned about North Korea's nuclear weapons.'' The official added: ''They can make life uncomfortable for them in small ways. They are still working on it. Will they succeed? I don't know.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Korean War; Missing in Action

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%) Joel Brinkley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%) North Korea; South Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



625 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Suburb Plans a Housing Project It Hopes Is Unfriendly to Children

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: HAMILTON, N.J., May 29 

 BODY:
They are building the latest thing in urban design here in this old blue-collar suburb of Trenton, a project that combines housing, office space and mass transit in a single pedestrian-friendly system.
 But none of those qualities would have passed political muster if Hamilton Township planners had not also built in one more important feature: a promise that hardly any children will move in.
 Although opponents of the project deride the promise, Mayor Glen D. Gilmore and his staff convinced the Township Council and planners that even after 680 expensive condos and town houses have been built on the grounds of an old American Standard toilet factory here, only about 30 school-age children would live there. 
 ''The fact that it will not attract a lot of kids certainly made it the way to go,'' said Hal English, the township's economic development director. 
 It may seem odd that a suburb that has incubated hordes of happy children should now be so bent on keeping them out. Actually, the no-more-kids sign has been hung in towns all over New Jersey -- so often that New Jersey Future, a group that advocates measured development, says parts of the state are ''anti-family.''
 ''Too many New Jersey towns don't want kids, as evidenced in weekly town hearings and by growth that favors new commercial and senior development over family housing,'' the group reported in January. ''This anti-family attitude, while tragic, is logical: the median property tax in New Jersey ($4,047) doesn't begin to cover the median cost of educating even one child ($10,652) who may live in that home.''
 New Jersey Future's solution is to shift school financing away from property taxes and onto a more broadly based tax, but that change, if it ever comes, is still far away. In the meantime, places like Hamilton balance the need for new development and the new taxes it brings with the need to keep school enrollment down. 
 ''I've really held the line on projects that will have school kids, and the transit projects we've studied seem to bear out our prediction that people who live in them have far fewer school kids than other residential projects,'' Mayor Gilmore, a Democrat, said in an interview. 
 The mayor conceded that the prediction of only 30 children in 680 housing units might be low. His estimate, low or not, has not mollified the opponents living in Cornell Heights, an enclave of single-family homes next to the development.
 ''They're not age-restricted, they're not child-restricted, and they're not handing out birth-control pills at the preconstruction-sales trailer,'' said Dennis Pone, an optician who has lived in Cornell Heights for 18 years and is leading the opposition. 
 ''We figure there will be 350 kids, and maybe 300 of those will be school-age children,'' he went on. ''And, really, 10 more kids in our school system is too many, as far as I'm concerned.''
 The old American Standard toilet factory, beside New Jersey Transit's Hamilton train station straddling Amtrak's Northeast Corridor line, is being converted into a 450,000-square-foot office complex, and its tenants already include a law firm and several engineering firms. The original glazed-tile factory sign, Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co., has been preserved, and is visible from the station.
 The new office development is called American Metro Center, and is being developed by Preferred Real Estate Investments Inc.
 The area north of the new office space will hold the 680 rental apartments, condos and town houses, with a total of nearly 1,300 bedrooms, and many of the residences will have dens. They are intended to be within easy walking distance of the train station. In keeping with the child-unfriendly intention, there will be no playgrounds. 
 A similar second project is in the planning stage. On the east side of the tracks, where a parking lot now faces the station, the township envisions a project with a mixture of about 300 dwellings -- no child count on them yet -- plus office, retail and entertainment space close to the station. For this project, the township has applied for a state designation as a ''transit village,'' which goes to projects that discourage sprawl and earns the municipality a few dollars in subsidies and some technical help. 
 The state's Department of Transportation has not yet awarded the transit village designation, but Marc LaVorgna, a spokesman for the department, called the Hamilton project ''an outstanding application.''
 Mr. English, the economic development chief, said the proximity to the train would keep families with children away.
 ''In the old days, poor people lived by the tracks,'' he said, recalling his own Trenton childhood within earshot of the old Pennsylvania Railroad line. ''Now the train is for high-end people. Those condos are going to sell for between $300,000 and $500,000, and those people know that railroad tracks are not good places to raise kids.''
 He added, ''You're going to have to love trains, because you're going to hear train whistles all night long, and that's not the best way to get a baby to sleep.''


GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey shows the location of Hamilton Township. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CONTRACEPTION (50%) Housing; Children and Youth; Housing

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Future (Orgn)

PERSON: Iver Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hamilton Township (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



626 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Class and the American Dream

 BODY:
Is the American dream that people can rise from rags to riches with a little grit and imagination -- or fall from the top rungs to lesser positions if they can't cut it -- mostly a myth? A series in The Times called ''Class Matters'' has found that there is far less mobility up and down the economic ladder than economists once thought or than most Americans believe. Class based on economic and social differences remains a powerful force in American life and has come to play a greater, not lesser, role over the last three decades. 
 A parallel series in The Wall Street Journal found that as the gap between rich and poor has widened in America, the odds that a child will climb from poverty to wealth, or fall from wealth to the middle class, have remained stuck, leaving Americans no more likely to rise or fall from their parents' economic class than they were 35 years ago. 
 What fools many Americans is the sight of high achievers vaulting from poor or obscure backgrounds to positions of power and wealth. Witness Bill Clinton, who rose from a humble background to the presidency, or Bill Gates, who rose from the upper middle class to become the world's richest person. Witness all the self-made billionaires and corporate titans. But beneath this veneer of super-achievers, recent scholarship shows, many Americans find themselves mired in the same place as their parents, with profound implications for their health and education, as well as other aspects of their lives. Those in the upper middle classes enjoy better health and live longer than those in the middle classes, who live longer and better than those at the bottom. That's partly because money, good jobs and connections help the better-off get the best medical care. Education, supposedly the key to advancement in a meritocratic society, is also heavily dependent on wealth and class. It is thus extremely disheartening to learn that at 250 of the most selective colleges, the proportion of students from upper-income families has actually grown over the past two decades, despite financial aid programs.
 There is no sure-fire way to mitigate the deep-seated, multifaceted impact of class. Stronger affirmative-action programs to bring low-income students into colleges would surely help. So, too, would stronger anti-poverty and early-education programs. Tax cuts would be better targeted at the middle class and below, not at the wealthy who already have more than enough advantages. The goal should be a truly merit-based society where class finally fades from importance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (84%); TRENDS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (76%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (60%) United States Economy; Editorials; Social Conditions and Trends; Income; Colleges and Universities; Affirmative Action; Education and Schools; Education (Pre-School); Antipoverty Programs; Taxation; United States Economy

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (65%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



627 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Niagara Falls, Already in Decline, Faces Another Blow

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y., May 27 

 BODY:
Tom Linton's job history embodies this region's steady economic decline.
 He worked as a puncher in a steel-fabrication plant until the factory closed, then as a part-time janitor at an elementary school and a clerk at an auto supply shop. After the owner died, Mr. Linton took over, but after a decade, a nearby chain store started selling parts and paint at prices he couldn't match. 
 He responded by turning the shop into TL's Trading Post, selling closeout and overrun items from larger stores, including children's toys and clothing and 50-pound bags of dog food. At least 15 percent of his business comes from employees and reservists at the Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station nearby, which is Niagara County's second-largest employer.
 But the air station, New York's lone Air Force base, will close if Congress approves the recommendations of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. The 642 full-time jobs at the base would vanish. As many as 2,000 reservist positions would move to either Maine or Arkansas.
 ''I'm a survivor,'' Mr. Linton, 56, said about the prospect of losing so many customers. ''But you hope it doesn't happen. I don't know that I could afford to do this someplace else.''
 Other businesses have similar concerns. Merrell Lane, a Niagara Falls funeral-home owner, estimated that the base contributes $150 million annually to the local economy. 
 Forty years ago, Niagara Falls was a boomtown, when construction of the New York State Power Authority's hydroelectric plant along the Niagara River below the world-famous falls inflated the city's population to more than 100,000.
 But soon after the plant was completed, industrial jobs began to leave not only Niagara Falls, but also the entire western end of the state. And by the late 1970's, the city once famous as a honeymoon destination had become better known for the environmental disaster in its Love Canal neighborhood.
 By the 2000 Census, the population of Niagara Falls had fallen to 55,593, with a median household income of $26,800 -- more than 36 percent below the national average. 
 ''The Western New York economy is really hurting compared to most areas of the country,'' said John B. Sheffer II, the executive director of the Institute for Local Governance and Regional Growth at the State University of New York at Buffalo. ''A base closing is going to have a larger and tougher impact in Niagara County than in an area where the economy is booming.''
 Mr. Lane, the funeral-home owner, is chairman of the Niagara Military Affairs Council, a group of local officials and businessmen that defeated an effort in 1995 to close the base and is trying to do the same thing again. The group has based its arguments mainly on the facility's military importance, particularly its proximity to an international border and the hydroelectric plants on both the Canadian and American sides of the Niagara River, which supply power to much of the Northeastern United States and southeastern Canada.
 But the economic impact is at least as important, Mr. Lane said, both in terms of the full-time employees and reservists -- 75 percent of whom live within 50 miles of the base -- for whom service in the Air Reserve is a second job.
 ''There are the full-time people out there who spend paychecks in the community,'' Mr. Lane said. ''And the extra money the reservists derive from working out there part time allows them to purchase a little more than they normally would.''
 Mr. Sheffer said the combination of a shrinking population and high rates of unemployment and poverty magnified the effects of losing the air base. 
 Nor are there many opportunities in the private sector for those displaced workers. According to a 2002 report by the local governance institute, the five largest employers in Western New York were the federal government, the State of New York, the Buffalo City School District, Erie County and the University at Buffalo.
 The biggest new employer to arrive since that report is the Seneca Niagara Casino, which opened in 2003 and employs about 2,000 full- and part-time workers. The opening of the casino coincided with a push by local and state officials to jump-start the area's declining tourist economy. 
 But this has been thwarted, to some degree, by the lack of commercial flights at Niagara Falls International Airport; the last commercial carrier pulled out in 2000. The nearest airport is Buffalo, 20 miles away. The closing of the air base could make things worse. 
 ''The implications for tourism to the falls, which is one of the primary factors in the local economy, are pretty discouraging,'' Mr. Sheffer said.
 Then there's the psychological effect.
 ''It's a symbolic hit for an area that tends to lack self-confidence and which is being destroyed in the private sector by state policies on taxation and spending,'' said Lawrence Southwick, an associate professor in the University at Buffalo's School of Management.
 Mr. Lane's group, which helped save the base during the last round of closings a decade ago, has retained a lobbyist in Washington while waging a grass-roots campaign that includes sending letters, e-mail and petitions to the Pentagon, Congress and the White House, along with a series of public rallies leading up to a public hearing by the base-closing commission scheduled for June 27 in Buffalo.
 ''Our focus is on keeping what we've got,'' Mr. Lane said. ''It's easier to keep what you've got than to try to redevelop something.''
 But Mr. Linton said he was prepared to adjust and adapt, just as he and the region have been doing throughout his adult life.
 ''If it happens, we have to move on,'' he said. ''That's reality. What are you going to do, sit in the parking lot and cry?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Linton has run TL's Trading Post for 20 years. He fears closing of the air base would hurt business. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)Chart: ''Proposed Base Closings''Niagara Falls International Airport Air Reserve Station is the largest Air Guard or Air Reserve facility proposed to be closed. Here is how the areas economy compares with those of some other air stations slated for closing.BASE NAME -- Niagara Falls International Airport Air Reserve StationNET JOBS LOST -- 642UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 7.2PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 10.6BASE NAME -- Otis Air National Guard Base, Mass.NET JOBS LOST -- 505UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 5.0PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 6.9BASE NAME -- Kulis Air Guard Station, AlaskaNET JOBS LOST -- 459UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 5.3PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 7.3BASE NAME -- Pittsburgh International Airport Air Reserve StationNET JOBS LOST -- 322UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 4.9PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 11.2BASE NAME -- W.K. Kellogg Airport Air Guard Station, Mich.NET JOBS LOST -- 274UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 7.2PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 11.3BASE NAME -- General Mitchell International Airport Air Reserve Station, Wis.NET JOBS LOST -- 266UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 6.4PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 15.3BASE NAME -- Mansfield Lahm Municipal Airport Air Guard Station, OhioNET JOBS LOST -- 234UNEMPLOYMENT RATE* -- 7.8PERCENT BELOW POVERTY (2000)* -- 10.6*For the county containing the facility.(Sources by U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Census Bureau)Map of New York and Canada highlights Niagara Falls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); CENSUS (65%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); AIRPORTS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Shutdowns (Institutional); Military Bases and Installations; Niagara Falls International Airport Air Reserve Station; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%)

PERSON: David Staba

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Niagara Falls (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



628 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: The Hills Still Resonate

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Its director was the editor of ''Citizen Kane.'' Its screenwriter was the author of ''North by Northwest.'' Its composers were the most successful songwriting team in American theater history. And ''The Sound of Music'' was the movie that everybody hated but the people.
 Christopher Plummer, Captain von Trapp himself, is said to have called it ''The Sound of Mucus.'' Robert Wise, the director, worried with Julie Andrews, the eternal Maria Poppins, about what they could do to remove a spoonful (or two) of the schmaltz. Pauline Kael, who would become the reigning film critic of her era, denounced it as ''the sugar-coated lie that people seem to want to eat.'' 
 And yet. And yet 40 years ago this Memorial Day weekend, ''The Sound of Music'' was not just the summer movie of 1965. It was the spring, fall and winter one, too, and in inflation-adjusted dollars, it remains the third-biggest-grossing film of all time at the domestic box office, according to Box Office Mojo. It hit the Billboard Top 40 video sales chart shortly after it became one of the first movies ever released on home video in 1979, and still holds the chart's longevity record, of more than 300 weeks and counting.
 Twentieth Century Fox plans to release a special 40th-anniversary two-DVD edition in November, with new documentary material (including interviews with Ms. Andrews, other cast members and creators) prepared by Michael Kantor, who directed the PBS series ''Broadway: The American Musical'' last year. 
 What explains such colossal success? ''It's mainly the script,'' said Mr. Wise, who will turn 91 in September and once estimated that he had been asked that question an average of twice a week since the film's premiere on March 2, 1965. ''It's a family film, nothing more universal.''
 When Ernest Lehman, the highly regarded screenwriter of movies like ''Somebody Up There Likes Me'' and ''Sweet Smell of Success'' told his friend Burt Lancaster that he was working on ''The Sound of Music,'' Lancaster responded, ''Jesus, you must need the money!''
 But, in hindsight, a compelling case can be made for ''The Sound of Music,'' as the last picture show of its kind, a triumph of craftsmanship and the apogee of the studio system that produced the kind of entertainment that dominated mid-20th-century mass culture. When it opened, it displaced ''Gone With the Wind'' (by then already 26 years old), as the all-time box-office champion in nominal dollars, a position it held for seven years through Vietnam, assassinations and political turmoil until ''The Godfather'' knocked it off in 1972.
 It was at once the salvation (and very nearly the death knell) of its own studio, rescuing Fox from the financial disaster of ''Cleopatra'' but also sending the studio in quest of similar surefire successes that wound up as famous failures, like Rex Harrison's ''Doctor Dolittle'' and ''Hello, Dolly!'' (It's hard to hold a moonbeam in your hand.) 
 With its breathtaking Austrian locations and complex outdoor musical sequences, ''The Sound of Music,'' building on Mr. Wise's film of ''West Side Story'' before it, had the bad luck to liberate the film musical forever from the soundstage-bound conventions that once forced pigeons to fly into painted backdrops in ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' at the very moment that four nightingales from Liverpool were helping to change mass musical taste forever.
 A film that was easy to mock as stale and conventional in the wake of the French Nouvelle Vague (and on the brink of ''Bonnie and Clyde'') is far easier to appreciate now for its old-fashioned gloss and arch performances from silken pros like Eleanor Parker, who played the Baroness with the poise of an early Avedon model; Peggy Wood, the Mother Abbess, who had made her Broadway debut in ''Naughty Marietta'' in 1910; and Anna Lee, the doughty veteran of the John Ford stock company who played Sister Margaretta.
 From the moment on Broadway in 1959 that Mary Martin, the first Maria, sang that her day in the hills had come to an end, critics dismissed ''The Sound of Music'' as the least original work of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, the men who did more than any other to bring the Broadway musical -- arguably America's most original art form, together with jazz -- to full flower in path-breaking works like ''Oklahoma!'' ''Carousel'' and their Pulitzer Prize-winning ''South Pacific.''
 ''Not only too sweet for words but almost too sweet for music,'' Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Herald Tribune.
 But from the very beginning, the public lapped it up. Ms. Kael lost her job as movie critic for McCall's after her infamous panning, and the film has since survived innumerable television reruns (Ronald Reagan once skipped reading an economic-summit briefing book to watch it), cast reunions and high-camp ''Rocky Horror''-style sing-alongs that began in London in 1999, with audience members dressed as brown-paper packages and tea with jam and bread. 
 The first major Austrian production of the stage version (quite different from the film) is now playing at Vienna's venerable Volksoper, where it has received no better than mixed reviews but immense popular acclaim. Worldwide, ''The Sound of Music'' alternates with ''Oklahoma!'' as the most-produced Rodgers and Hammerstein property, and even an informal tally would suggest that, over all, it has been the most profitable, said Bert Fink, a spokesman for the Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization in New York.
 One of the main achievements of Mr. Lehman's screenplay was to discard some of the lesser songs from the Broadway production, and re-order others, including ''My Favorite Things'' (which was sung onstage to Maria by the Mother Abbess, not by Maria to the von Trapp kids during a thunderstorm) and ''Do-Re-Mi,'' which was sung the moment Maria met the children, not all over Salzburg in a still-thrilling sequence painstakingly worked out by Mr. Wise and Saul Chaplin, a veteran Hollywood music director and the movie's associate producer.
 ''Nobody has the magic wand, or there'd be movies like this done all the time,'' said Ted Chapin, president of the Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization, who estimates that anniversary-related activities surrounding ''The Sound of Music'' have occupied more than 90 percent of his time in the last two months. ''In retrospect, it's a very good story, with very good tunes. The score doesn't really sound like a score written by 60-year-old men. There's a kind of youthfulness and honesty to the songs, about how to learn music, but also how to break down barriers. It doesn't sound like someone's trying to phony something up.''
 Even Ms. Kael implicitly acknowledged the movie's power.
 ''Whom could it offend?'' she asked in her famous McCall's drubbing. ''Only those of us who, despite the fact that we may respond, loathe being manipulated.'' 
 Forty years and a lot less innocence later, in the era of film as theme-park thrill ride and prepackaged comic-book sequel, a little artful manipulation seems a small enough price, and ''The Sound of Music'' a big enough blessing. Let it bloom and grow.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The sound of protest: college students in Minnesota in 1966 saying ''enough'' to ''The Sound of Music.'' (Photo by 20th Century Fox)(pg. E6)
 (Photo by Argyle Enterprises and 20th Century Fox)(pg. E1)Chart: Top 5 MoviesAll-time domestic box-office leaders, adjusted for ticket price inflation:Title -- Gone with the WindYear -- 1939Adjusted Gross -- 1,293,085,600Title -- Star WarsYear -- 1977Adjusted Gross -- 1,139,965,400Title -- The Sound of MusicYear -- 1965Adjusted Gross -- 911,458,400Title -- E.T.: The Extra-TerrestrialYear -- 1982Adjusted Gross -- 907,867,700Title -- The Ten CommandmentsYear -- 1956Adjusted Gross -- 838,400,000(Source by Box Office Mojo)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); MUSIC (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); FILM GENRES (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Motion Pictures; Recordings (Video)

ORGANIZATION: Twentieth Century Fox

PERSON: Todd S Purdum

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



629 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: The Double Ups and Downs of a Philanthropist

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD and DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Laws of physics notwithstanding, for Alberto W. Vilar, the bubble popped twice.
 Through much of the 1990's, he was a seeming savant, a financial pied piper leading legions of wealthy followers to his Park Avenue investment firm and its bets on high tech. As hot money rolled in by the billions, Mr. Vilar stepped up his already generous philanthropy, transforming himself into a prominent patron of the Metropolitan Opera, as well as other opera houses, orchestras and medical research institutions. 
 But with the end of the market bubble in 2000, Mr. Vilar and his investors experienced three difficult years, watching helplessly as his primary technology fund lost more than 80 percent of its value. His philanthropic reputation also took a hit, as financial troubles led him to renege on or postpone tens of millions of dollars of pledges to the Met and other organizations. 
 Then, salvation -- or so it appeared. The technology fund roared back with the stock market, and Mr. Vilar began making rumblings about -- and taking steps toward -- a comeback to the highest circles of New York philanthropy. 
 But it all came crashing down Thursday. That night, Mr. Vilar, 64, flew to Newark Liberty International Airport from Las Vegas, where he spoke at an investor conference. At the airport, federal agents arrested him on fraud charges, accusing him of stealing $5 million from a client -- and using the money to make good on charitable pledges. As he was led away in handcuffs, there was no doubt that the Vilar bubble had burst once more -- perhaps irreparably.
 People involved in the case said and court documents in the complaint suggested that prosecutors had evidence indicating that financial wrongdoing by Mr. Vilar might have begun in the late 1980's and involved several accounts, including at least one for a Panamanian entity he controlled called Amerindo Management Inc. 
 At a hearing on Friday, a federal prosecutor, David Esseks, said the government suspected that the $5 million theft described in the criminal complaint was ''just the tip of the iceberg.'' 
 Mr. Vilar has pleaded not guilty and is being held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan, after being unable to pay $10 million in cash for bail on Friday. Another bail hearing will be tomorrow. Gary Tanaka, who co-founded Mr. Vilar's investment advisory firm, was charged separately in a similar complaint of theft of client funds. 
 In an interview yesterday, Frederick P. Hafetz, a lawyer for Mr. Vilar, said his client ''maintains that there is no basis for the charge, and he is confident that he will be exonerated.''
 The rise and fall -- and rise and fall -- of Alberto Vilar is a tale of transforming eras, of a time when heroes and gurus borne on a wave of economic exuberance came crashing down as the market tides turned. But unlike other business sachems of the 1990's who have emerged as the widely perceived scoundrels for the new millennium -- like Kenneth L. Lay of Enron, Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom or L. Dennis Kozlowski of Tyco -- Mr. Vilar lived a life that is less confined to the strictures of business, playing out instead at the intersection of cash and culture.
 His story blends the passions of an esthete with the tactics of an investment strategist. It is the tale, associates of Mr. Vilar said, of a self-described Cuban refugee who sought adulation and acceptance in exclusive strata, yet who remained so solitary, so on the outside, that even when he attended his beloved operas at the Met, he usually came alone, taking his reserved seat, A-101. 
 For those who have known Mr. Vilar, the events that led to his arrest underscored the unease -- and at times discomfort -- he created as he battled for his opera, his music, his accolades and his beliefs. 
 ''He was not, how shall I say, quiet, about his giving,'' said Beverly Sills, the soprano and a former chairwoman of the Met. ''I think that was a turn-off for other members of the board, the fact that he wanted more attention.''
 While many people in the world of the arts say that there was no doubt that Mr. Vilar was genuinely generous, even some executives who clashed with Mr. Vilar in business dealings walked away perplexed. 
 ''He spent money like it was water,'' said Donald Trump, the real estate developer who tussled successfully with him in court over plans to put up a 90-story building across the street from Mr. Vilar's 11,000-square-foot apartment at United Nations Plaza. ''Many people have fought me over the years, but there was something really missing with this guy.'' 
 Associates of Mr. Vilar had long heard from him the story of his past: The son of a Cuban businessman who traveled frequently, Mr. Vilar was born in New Jersey. He returned to Cuba, he told associates, where he lived until his family moved to Puerto Rico when he was 9. His love of the arts began early, instilled primarily by his paternal grandmother, a classical music aficionado. 
 He graduated in 1962 from Washington & Jefferson College in Pennsylvania. Afterwards, he landed a job with Citibank before obtaining a master's degree in economics from Iona College. But his big turn came as the bull market of the early 1980's was getting under way, when he and Mr. Tanaka opened their firm, Amerindo Investment Advisors. The firm was soon offering an array of services to institutional investors and wealthy individuals, including hedge funds and fixed-rate deposit accounts. 
 A specialist in emerging technology stocks, Mr. Vilar and his firm invested heavily in companies that were blazing the digital trail -- including Apple, Microsoft and Cisco. 
 The timing was right: the rapidly increasing popularity of technology stocks was an underlying force pushing up market values. 
 As the market bubble grew in the late 1990's, so did Mr. Vilar's profile. In 1996, his firm created its primary high-tech investment vehicle, the Amerindo Technology Fund. Assets in the fund soared from nearly $24 million in its first year to $598 million in 1999, a year when it returned almost 249 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. 
 At its peak, the firm had about $8 billion in assets under management in assorted vehicles, including the technology fund. The fees Mr. Vilar collected propelled him onto Fortune magazine's list of wealthiest people. 
 He used that wealth as an entree into the international world of culture. He spoke of spending 100 nights a year at the opera, which was said by at least one close acquaintance to be an exaggeration. His operatic tastes were conservative -- straightforward productions of Wagner and Verdi, with a preference for lavish stagings like those of the director Franco Zeffirelli.
 His love of the operatic stage was echoed in his life. Mr. Vilar lives in a vast, mirror- and art-filled apartment at 860 United Nations Plaza, a combination of four condominiums where he planned to build a concert hall and had a reproduction of the inner facade of the Mozarteum in Salzburg, said the acquaintance, who declined to be identified to avoid being seen as saying damaging things about Mr. Vilar.
 His financial success gave Mr. Vilar the opportunity to pursue his more erudite interests. ''When money started coming in,'' he said in an interview in March. ''I wanted to take care of the first love of my life, music.''
 And so he did, pledging $225 million in the last several decades, although actually providing half the amount so far, he has said. Mr. Vilar liked the big gesture -- he gave with a flourish, calling philanthropy an ''art form,'' and demanded recognition, more so than most big donors. 
 Hence the Vilar Grand Tier at the Metropolitan Opera, the Vilar young artists program at the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden, the Vilar Center for the Arts in Avon, Colo., to name a few. The name was writ large on walls and programs.
 Giving money away was ''emotional, cultural and intellectual fun,'' Mr. Vilar said in the March interview. ''It's part of your moral and intellectual legacy,''
 Ms. Sills said Mr. Vilar once proposed putting the names of donors, including his own name, on the subtitle readout screens that are installed on the backs of seats at the house, and even bringing donors on stage at the end of a performance. The ideas were rejected. 
 ''His reasons that more-public donations give more encouragement to other people was not really accepted,'' she said. ''They felt it was a little bit of an ego trip.'' 
 But the Met tolerated Mr. Vilar's quests for recognition, and were happy to maintain the relationship while it was fruitful. ''He was giving large sums of money,'' Ms. Sills pointed out.
 Not for long. When technology stocks crashed, Mr. Vilar's fortunes were hit hard. The technology fund he controlled fell 64.8 percent in 2000, and declined another 50.8 percent in 2001 and 31.0 percent in 2002. 
 His finances shaky, Mr. Vilar failed to meet payments on $20 million in pledges over five years. The Met has declined to say how much he paid, but Mr. Vilar said he provided about half of the amount. He also was said to have failed to come up with $2 million each to the Washington and Los Angeles operas, which both had Mr. Vilar's friend, the tenor Placido Domingo, as general director. The Lyric Opera of Chicago also cited failed payments by Mr. Vilar.
 With its longtime cash machine malfunctioning, the arts world turned on its onetime benefactor. The Met removed foot-high metal letters spelling his name from the wall of the Grand Tier. Menu covers with his name in the tier's restaurant were discarded. Next month, when his term expires, Mr. Vilar will no longer be on the Met board, the house said, a decision made before his legal troubles emerged.
 In the March interview, Mr. Vilar said the Met showed unjust impatience with his financial troubles. ''I had a record,'' he said. ''How about reverse philanthropy?''
 Even Mr. Vilar's critics found the episode unseemly. ''I think the institutions treated him terribly,'' Mr. Trump said. ''Here's a guy who gave millions and pledged more, and they came after him rather than let him get back on his feet.''
 As he struggled, Mr. Vilar had the help of wealthy friends. Mr. Domingo said he personally put up money promised by Mr. Vilar. In 2002, Lorin Maazel, the music director of the New York Philharmonic, replaced a $700,000 pledge that Mr. Vilar had made to their Maazel/Vilar Conductors' Competition in 2002. 
 That year, according to the criminal complaint, Mr. Vilar resorted to less-reputable meaning of obtaining money. On June 20, 2002, a friend who had invested with Mr. Vilar for about two decades gave him $5 million to invest in a government-backed investment company intended to attract venture capital for small businesses.
 But, to qualify, the managers of such funds must be approved by the government; the Amerindo fund, despite repeated efforts, was not. The friend was not identified in the complaint. 
 Instead, the complaint says, the money was deposited in the brokerage account of Amerindo Management Inc, Mr. Vilar's Panamanian entity. 
 Within six days, the complaint says, a million dollars of that was wired to the account of ''A.W. Vilar'' at Chase Manhattan Bank. Approximately another million dollars was wired to other bank accounts. 
 Within two weeks, the money sent to Chase was gone. Amounts were wired and sent to various recipients, including Washington & Jefferson College; the American Academy in Berlin, an institute for advanced studies; a catering service; dishwasher repair service and to Mr. Vilar himself, the complaint says. 
 By the following month, another $3.1 million was wired from the Panamanian entity's brokerage account to an overseas financial institution in Luxemburg, it says.
 Over the following two years, the complaint says, Mr. Vilar took extraordinary steps to hide the theft, sending bogus account statements and letters to the investor, claiming the $5 million was on deposit with the Small Business Administration. 
 In 2003, the complaint says, Mr. Vilar funneled the last of the remaining cash into personal and offshore accounts. That same year, after a reorganization that pooled several funds, his technology fund rebounded, gaining 85.1 percent, according to Morningstar. The next year, 2004, strong performance continued with a 23.8 percent return. 
 While the fund struggled this year, Mr. Vilar sounded confident in March of his return. ''I want to continue to work,'' he said. ''We've been through good and bad times -- 20 good years, 4 bad.''
 As for his contributions, he seemed prepared to snub the former recipients of his largesse who had treated him roughly. ''When you are lucky enough to get a big fish, you better keep them alive,'' he said of those organizations. ''Some day they are going to wake up and say, 'What about Alberto?'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alberto W. Vilar, right, loved to give money when he had it, and his $10 million gift established a professorship of neurological surgery and a spine regeneration research program in his name in New York in 2001. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. A12)
 Alberto W. Vilar in his favorite seat at the Metropolitan Opera. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (92%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); OPERA (90%); BONDS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (85%); PHYSICS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); BAIL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); AIRPORTS (66%); ARRESTS (65%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Opera; Frauds and Swindling; Culture; Stocks and Bonds; Philanthropy; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Opera; Amerindo Technology Advisers

PERSON: Kurt Eichenwald; Daniel J Wakin; Alberto W Vilar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



630 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; AUTO RACING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: On a Day of Dreams, Wheldon Is the Fastest

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, May 29 

 BODY:
Michael Andretti peered through sunglasses into a sky growing thicker with clouds. It seemed as if the chances were good that one of his drivers would win the Indianapolis 500 on Sunday.
 But that was all they were: chances.
 Before Sunday, Andretti had 14 chances to win this race, and he never did. He lost a spectacular duel with Rick Mears late in the 1991 race. A year later, he led for 160 laps in a dominating performance until his car lost fuel pressure and coasted to a stop. 
 Andretti led for more laps in the Indy 500 -- 426 -- than anyone who never won. Four drivers from his family had driven in 53 Indy 500's. Only his father, Mario, had won, and then only once. 
 After the 2003 season, Michael Andretti became a car owner and continued pursuing the elusive victory.
 On Sunday, Danica Patrick took the lead from one of Andretti's drivers, Dan Wheldon. Patrick lost the lead but retook it with 10 laps left.
 It seemed as if the curse on Andretti would not be lifted in the 89th Indianapolis 500.
 But Andretti knew that Wheldon was a hot driver and that Patrick was driving on old tires. Wheldon passed Patrick with six laps left and won the race under caution.
 The curse, as even Andretti had labeled it, was finally gone.
 ''You know, this place has been tough on me personally,'' Andretti said. ''But I just always had a feeling that one day, I would have some good memories here. It's finally happened. Hopefully, this is the first of a lot more.''
 Wheldon, a 26-year-old Briton, won even though he had started from the 16th position, the middle of the 33-car field. Wheldon had won three of the previous four Indy Racing League races, but he had to pick his way to the front.
 ''The race was just difficult because there were so many good cars out there,'' Wheldon said.
 Tony Kanaan, another driver for Andretti, started the race from the pole position and led for 54 of the first 146 laps. Dario Franchitti, another driver for the team that Andretti co-owns with Kim Green, led for 15 laps.
 But each slipped out of contention.
 Wheldon took the lead for the first time with only 35 laps left in the 200-lap race. As the number of laps dwindled, Bryan Herta, the fourth driver for Andretti and Green, scooted into contention.
 Because Patrick had to economize on fuel, Wheldon took the lead and held it. As Wheldon drank milk from a bottle in Victory Lane, Andretti asked him to pass the bottle, and he took a swig. 
 ''I never tasted such sweet milk,'' Andretti said.
 He said the victory felt almost as good as it would have had he driven the car instead of Wheldon. Andretti joked afterward in a news conference that he would consider a comeback as a driver, now that he had a stake in a victory here.
 ''Michael, the team, what can I say?'' Mario Andretti said. ''It doesn't get any better than this.''
 Mario Andretti hollered to his 42-year-old son in victory lane and said he was happy for him. 
 It was not a particularly emotional conversation, Michael Andretti said, but it was poignant. Michael Andretti was not here when his father won in 1969.
 ''He knows how tough this place has been for me,'' Andretti said. ''He's at least experienced it once, and I never did.''
 While Patrick, the 23-year-old rookie, has rocketed into prominence with a spectacular month at Indianapolis, Wheldon has been a force since the I.R.L. season began two months ago.
 ''He's starting to get to be a bit of a trophy hog,'' Herta said of Wheldon. ''We need to balance that out.''
 Wheldon finished third last year in the Indy 500, behind Buddy Rice and Kanaan, who went on to win the I.R.L. championship. Although Wheldon scuffled this month to find the speed that Patrick had from the beginning, he thought he could win.
 ''I don't want to sound too cheesy or anything, but I'm certainly confident in the equipment I'm given,'' Wheldon said. ''These guys give you good cars, and they constantly are developing the cars to keep with the likes of the other teams out there.''
 Rahal Letterman Racing is one of those teams. Patrick drives for the team, and so does Vitor Meira, who finished second.
 Andretti thought Meira had a car capable of challenging Wheldon once he took the lead from Patrick.
 But Meira took some time to pass Patrick, and Wheldon was able to open a big lead. ''Almost every goal we wanted to achieve, we've achieved already in a couple of years, which is pretty nice,'' Andretti said. ''So we've got to continue to make new ones for ourselves.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); TIRES (75%) Automobile Racing; Indianapolis 500 (Auto Race)

COMPANY: INDY RACING LEAGUE LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711320 PROMOTERS OF PERFORMING ARTS, SPORTS & SIMILAR EVENTS WITHOUT FACILITIES (53%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (53%)

PERSON: DANICA PATRICK (79%) Dave Caldwell; Dan Wheldon

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



631 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: FRENCH VOTERS SOUNDLY REJECT EUROPEAN PACT

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Helene Fouquet and Ariane Bernard contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: PARIS, May 29 

 BODY:
Turning its back on half a century of European history, France decisively rejected a constitution for Europe on Sunday, plunging the country into political disarray and jeopardizing the cause of European unity.
 The victory for the no vote -- 55 percent to 45 percent -- came in a nationwide referendum on the European Union constitution after a bruising campaign that divided France and alarmed Europe.
 Foreshadowed in recent polls, the no vote could doom the 448-article treaty because all 25 members of the European Union must ratify it before it can take effect.
 The rejection could signal an abrupt halt to the expansion and unification of Europe, a process that has been met with growing disillusionment among the wealthier European Union members as needier countries like Bulgaria and Poland have negotiated their entry. 
 President Jacques Chirac, who had predicted France's isolation in Europe if the constitution was rejected, smiled stiffly as he struggled to mask his disappointment. 
 ''The decision of France inevitably creates a difficult situation for the defense of our interests in Europe,'' he said in a brief statement broadcast live on television. Hinting at possible cabinet changes, he added, ''I will tell you in the very next days my decisions regarding the government and its priorities.''
 Early this month, Mr. Chirac had vowed not to change his government if the referendum failed, saying it was ''neither a plebiscite nor a moment of political change.''
 But the vote, which made France the first country to reject the treaty, has deeply wounded the French president. More than 50 years ago, France was a founding member of the six-country precursor to the current European Union. Mr. Chirac had assumed that through the constitution, a document similar in some ways to the Constitution that binds the United States, France could promote a stronger, more unified Europe that could project not only economic but also political power around the world. He repeatedly spoke of a ''multipolar world'' with Europe as one of the poles counter-balancing the United States.
 After the vote, some extreme opponents of the constitution called for Mr. Chirac to resign.
 ''We are tonight before a major political crisis,'' said Philippe de Villiers, head of the right-wing Movement for France and a vocal lobbyist against the constitution. He added that Mr. Chirac had two choices: resignation ''given the fact that he had been so personally involved'' or the dissolution of Parliament.
 Jean-Marie Le Pen, the head of the far-right National Front, faulted Mr. Chirac for threatening the French with ''chaos'' if they voted no, adding, ''He isn't qualified, it seems to me, to remain as the head of the country.''
 About 70 percent of France's registered 41.8 million voters cast ballots, a high turnout on a Sunday that was also Mother's Day here. Throughout the day in Paris, electronic billboards all across town said: ''Don't let the others decide for you. Go vote.''
 Pollsters said the rejection reflected French voters' anger at the 72-year-old president and his center-right government for failing to improve the country's troubled economy, as well as fear that the treaty would erode France's generous cradle-to-grave social safety net.
 The debate had been colored by fear of the mythical ''Polish plumber,'' the worker from recent European Union members from the East who is increasingly free to move West and willing to work for lower pay than Frenchmen.
 Proponents of the ''no'' fueled voters with fear of a more powerful European Union where France no longer has influence, and of an increasingly ''Anglo-Saxon'' and ''ultraliberal'' Europe where free-market capitalism runs wild.
 France's rejection makes it more likely that the Netherlands, where polls show that 60 percent of voters plan to reject the constitution, will vote no in the referendum there on Wednesday. Nine other European Union members have approved it.
 The Dutch prime minister, Jan Peter Balkenende, called on voters to approve the constitution despite France's rejection, saying: ''There is all the more reason to say yes so that some progress can be recorded with the constitutional treaty. Each country has its own responsibility.''
 The constitution is essentially a vehicle to streamline decision-making in the expanded 25-member bloc and a blueprint for the next stage of its growth and unification. It eliminates the six-month rotating European Union presidency, creating a president with a maximum five-year term; details a list of basic rights; and determines what functions, such as issuing visas or making rules on immigration, will be governed by the European Union headquarters in Brussels and what others, like foreign policy and defense, will remain with member states.
 It is conceivable that the constitution could be voted on by the French again or even revised, although the process would be cumbersome. 
 Even without the constitution, the European Union will go on as before under existing treaties.
 But the vote stalls the forward momentum of Europe and makes it more vulnerable to economic and political uncertainty. It could paralyze decision-making in the European Union for months, complicate the process of admitting new members, and make it even more difficult to impose discipline on members' spending and inflation levels.
 European officials quickly expressed anxiety over the ramifications of the vote.
 The British foreign secretary, Jack Straw, declined to say if Britain would proceed with a popular vote on the constitution next year. ''This raises profound questions for all of us about the direction of Europe,'' he told reporters. ''What we want now is a period of reflection.''
 In Germany, which has approved the constitution, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder called the French rejection ''a blow for the constitutional process, but not the end of it.'' In a gesture of solidarity with his French counterpart, he added, ''It is also not the end of the German-French partnership in and for Europe.''
 Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, who currently holds the European Union's rotating presidency, insisted the ratification process must proceed in other countries.
 This is the 10th time in the France's 47-year-old Fifth Republic that citizens have been called by the president to vote in a referendum.
 The only other rejection was in 1969, when de Gaulle proposed a measure to renovate the Senate, create regions and seek support after the student uprisings of May 1968. De Gaulle pledged to leave office if the ''no'' won, and when it did by a small margin, he resigned the next day.
 While Mr. Chirac said he would not resign, there has been intense speculation, even in his party, and the media in recent weeks that rejection of the constitution would prompt him to fire Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, whose popularity is at an abysmal 21 percent.
 Dominique de Villepin, the interior minister and former foreign minister, is considered a front-runner to replace Mr. Raffarin, and one close confidante said Mr. de Villepin had been quietly assembling a staff and anticipating a cabinet shuffle.
 Other contenders include Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie, and Nicolas Sarkozy, the head of Mr. Chirac's party but also Mr. Chirac's political foe.
 The referendum polarized France, with extremes of both the left and the right aligning in the no bloc and the center-right and most of the Socialist Party in the yes camp.
 The schism was borne out in and around Paris, where wealthy neighborhoods seemed to vote yes, while poor neighborhoods voted no.
 At a preschool turned polling place in the wealthy Paris suburb of Neuilly, 83 percent voted yes. That is the territory of Mr. Sarkozy, who was once mayor there.
 ''It's like building a house, you don't stop halfway,'' said Omar Bentchakal, the retired head of a small painting company, as he cast his ballot there. ''It would be unfortunate if we were the country who laid the first stone, but that we wouldn't be there to put in the last one, that we're not following through. I would be hurt, really, if we voted no.''
 At the polling place at the Karl Marx primary school in downtown Bobigny, a working-class suburb of Paris, by contrast, there was no sense that Europe's future hinged on the constitution.
 With 18 percent unemployment and a large ethnic Arab and African population, 72 percent of the voters there said no.
 Bernard Birsinger, the suburb's Communist mayor, accused Mr. Chirac of fear-mongering and dissembling when he predicted political and economic doom for France if the country rejected the constitution.
 ''We are already in a Europe of unemployment and regression,'' said Mr. Birsinger, adding, ''We know that the destiny of France is not threatened.''
 For him, this was a moment to say no to authority, just as the French did in the 1789 revolution.
 ''Happily, certain people rose up and said no,'' he said. ''They didn't ask the king for permission to make a revolution.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Proponents of the no vote celebrated in Toulouse, in southern France, after voters rejected the European Union constitution yesterday. (Photo by Eric Cabanis/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (77%) Referendums; Constitutions; Elections; Politics and Government 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (53%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (73%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); BULGARIA (79%) Europe; France

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005



632 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Shock of French Vote Extends Through Europe
The shock of France's rejection of a constitution for Europe has plunged its center-right government into crisis and reverberated throughout the Continent, possibly sinking other countries' referendums. A1

France's rejection of the new European constitution may lead Prime Minister Tony Blair to avoid a messy and divisive referendum -- once expected in the spring 2006 -- on the subject in Britain. A10

C.I.A. Airlines in Terror Fight
Behind a surprisingly thin cover of front companies and shell corporations, the C.I.A. has rapidly expanded its air operations since 2001 as it has pursued terrorist suspects around the world. A1

Pope Confronts Fertility Law
Pope Benedict XVI endorsed a call by Italian bishops for a boycott of a referendum that would overturn laws banning the donation of sperm and eggs, define life as beginning at conception and allow fertility treatment for only ''stable heterosexual couples.'' A1

Son Wins Beirut Election
A heavily favored slate led by Saad Hariri, the son of the assassinated Lebanese former prime minister Rafik Hariri, swept parliamentary elections in Beirut, a victory that was tempered by concerns about the low turnout. A3

Talk on Antiproliferation Effort
The Bush administration is preparing to discuss for the first time details of the early fruits of its efforts to join forces with other nations in intercepting weapons and missile technology bound for Iran, North Korea and Syria. A3

Tape Says Zarqawi Injury Minor
In an message addressed to Osama bin Laden, the voice of a man claiming to be Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, acknowledged reports that he had been wounded but said that his wounds were slight and that he was still in Iraq, while in Hilla, south of Baghdad, two suicide bombers killed 27 people and wounded at least 120. A9

A month into a new job as a deputy prime minister in the new Shiite-led government, Ahmed Chalabi set off on a nearly 400-mile road trip across northern and central Iraq to stamp his authority on the country's troubled northern oil fields, in his capacity as the new government's energy overseer. A8

TV Anchor and Israel Critic
Haim Yavin, the calm, objective anchor of Israeli televisions' news since its founding in 1968, is about to deliver a documentary that sharply criticizes Israel's settlements in the West Bank. A3

NATIONAL A13-15

A.F.L.-C.I.O. Leader Faces A Summer of Discontent
At 71, after nearly half a century in the union movement and after a decade leading the nation's main labor federation, John J. Sweeney is facing his toughest time ever. The percentage of American workers belonging to unions continues to fall, and the federation's largest union is threatening to secede if, as expected, he is re-elected. A13

Hardship, Then Death on Farm
Neighbors in Bellefontaine, Ohio, say that 18-year-old Scott Moody watched his family, owners of a 650-acre farm, deal with one hardship after another over the years, until it became too much. The authorities say he killed three members of his family, two friends and wounded his sister, before killing himself. A13

Memorial Day Tribute by Bush
President Bush paid a Memorial Day tribute to generations of Americans who have given their lives for their nation, saying that while the United States had always been a ''reluctant warrior,'' its soldiers were willing to give all to rid the world of oppressors and spread the ideals of freedom. Speaking at Arlington National Cemetery, Mr. Bush saluted all those who have died in uniform. A15

Trappings of a Modern Dynasty
Like the Adamses, Roosevelts, Tafts, Kennedys, Gores and Bushes before them, the Cheneys -- Vice President Dick Cheney, his wife Lynne, and their daughters Elizabeth and Mary -- are a family act, a foursome fully immersed in conservative politics and public policy. All the Cheneys have advanced degrees, a demon work ethic and a devotion to free enterprise and the projection of American power. Now Elizabeth is the first deputy assistant secretary of state with her own Secret Service detail, and Mary may well be the first previously unknown presidential campaign aide to earn a million-dollar advance for her memoirs. A15

Cheney Backs Detainee Care
Vice President Dick Cheney has emphatically defended the handling of detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, saying that they had been ''well treated, treated humanely and decently'' and that some accusations to the contrary were lies. The vice president largely dismissed assertions that guards or questioners at the United States base had mishandled the Koran or beaten detainees. A15

No Progress for Texas Schools
Texas lawmakers earned an ''F'' from teachers and others as they wound down their biennial legislative session with their third failure in two years to fix a hard-pressed school financing system that a state judge has found unconstitutional. A14

Latin Mass Church May Close
Sunday was the 15th anniversary of the Latin Mass at Holy Trinity Church in Boston, the only service of its kind sanctioned by the Boston Archdiocese, and there is unlikely to be a 16th anniversary. As part of a broader cost-cutting plan to close 80 of its 357 parishes, the archdiocese plans to close Holy Trinity and move the Latin Mass elsewhere. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

New Jersey Transit Trains Eliminating Middle Seats
Following the lead of the Long Island Rail Road, New Jersey Transit trains are eliminating middle seats. The first prototype of the double-decker coach is not due until the end of the summer, however some commuters who would rather stand than occupy a middle seat, are eagerly anticipating the change. A1

Terrorism Charges Unsealed
A lengthy criminal complaint against two men arrested in what the government says was a plot to start a terrorist training camp in the United States was unsealed in Federal District Court in Manhattan. B1

400 More Eyes for Police
In an attempt to deter crime, the Police Department wants to install as many as 400 surveillance cameras in high-crime and high-traffic areas around the city, a department spokesman said. B3

Leopards Figure in Arrest
A Long Island man was arrested for beating his wife and chaining her to a wall and for keeping two 50-pound leopard cubs in the home's basement, endangering his four children. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-6

ARTS E1-10

Saving an Indie Film Darling
Advocates -- largely underground and independent filmmakers -- are signing up to save Kodachrome, or at least its Super 8 motion-picture version, a 1965 technology that the Eastman Kodak Company announced plans to discontinue in favor of a new Ektachrome Super 8 product. E1

OBITUARIES D8

Oscar Brown Jr.
A singer, songwriter, playwright and actor known for his distinctive blend of show-business savvy and social consciousness, he was 78. D8

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

U.S. Sues European Union
The Bush administration is bringing a case before the World Trade Organization against the European Union over subsidies it provided the aircraft manufacturer Airbus, insisting that the Union halt all subsidies to the company. C1

Clinical Trial Information
Nearly a year after the drug industry promised to provide more information on their research of new medicines, companies are divided on how much information is too much. While Eli Lilly has posted trial results on the Web, other companies are reluctant to follow. A1

Brokers Reap Windfall
The housing market has fueled the economy for the last five years and real estate agents have used skyrocketing prices of homes in hot markets to their advantage. A1

Jurors Disagree in Fraud Case
Disagreement among the jurors for the federal trial of Richard M. Scrushy, the ousted chief executive of the Healthsouth Corporation who is accused of fraud, may lead to a mistrial. C1

China Moves Into Diamonds
China's diamond importing and polishing industry accounts for 6 percent of the value added to the world's $4.6 billion diamond polishing industry. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Repairing the alternative tax; a new battle over free trade; the Amazon at risk.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E4
Weather D7
TV Listings E9


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ASSASSINATION (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); LEBANON (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



633 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Scrushy on Trial: Class, Race and the Pursuit of Justice in Alabama

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and KYLE WHITMIRE

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., May 30 

 BODY:
Juror No.300 works as an electric lineman for Alabama Power and served 22 years in the Army Reserve. Juror No.188 is a Shriner who enjoys hunting and lives in a suburb where the population is more than 90 percent white. Juror No.467 has worked as a security guard for nine years and lists ''music and flowers'' among her hobbies.
 The judge in the federal trial of Richard M. Scrushy, the ousted chief executive of the HealthSouth Corporation who is facing a possible life sentence for fraud charges, has fiercely sought to keep the identities of the 12-member jury in the case secret. The seven men and five women are known only by their numbers, assigned at the start of the trial. 
 But disagreement among the jurors on the government's crucial conspiracy charge has threatened a mistrial, casting attention on the jurors themselves.
 Some observers say Mr. Scrushy's lawyers have orchestrated a masterful manipulation of the subtle differences in class and race that still simmer in Birmingham, which has generated curiosity about the jurors, most from relatively modest economic backgrounds. 
 At least some of the jurors appear confounded by the complexity of the case. They have sat through four months of testimony in which former executives at HealthSouth, including five chief financial officers, described an elaborate scheme to commit fraud under Mr. Scrushy. And in another troubling sign for prosecutors, the forewoman appears unable to move her peers closer to a decision, or even to control the communication between jury and judge. 
 Even Judge Karon O. Bowdre seemed a little flummoxed by the jury's inability to understand her 78 pages of instructions, asking jurors last Thursday to consider extending their daily deliberations beyond the relaxed 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. period they have kept so far. 
 ''When jurors really get hung up on the language they're dealing with, those are exactly the people the defense is looking for, people who require a high level of evidence sufficiency,'' said Richard Gabriel, a jury consultant in Los Angeles who worked for the O.J. Simpson defense in 1995.
 The names and ages of the jurors remain confidential, but the transcripts of the questioning of potential jurors reveals a mix of backgrounds, professions and personalities. Most important, perhaps, the transcripts offer a glimpse of why Mr. Scrushy might be celebrating if jurors cannot reach a unanimous verdict soon.
 Consider No.157, the forewoman who was addressed as ''ma'am'' by Judge Bowdre during the voir dire, the legal term for the process in which potential jurors are questioned about possible biases. She enjoys knitting and reading and lives in Cahaba Heights, a predominantly white, middle-class suburb of Birmingham not far from where Mr. Scrushy lives in a 20-room house valued at $2.6 million. 
 No.157 said she had served as a jury forewoman in a criminal case in which a man was found guilty of drug and weapons charges after jurors deliberated two days.
 But this jury's deliberations seem more prone to uncertainty and even a personality clash. In an unusual move last week, a juror other than the forewoman wrote a note to the judge asking whether the jury members had to unanimously agree on the charge of conspiracy. The judge affirmed that they must.
 The note was signed by No.467, a woman who has worked for the last nine years as the supervisor of security for a building in Birmingham. She said she had a daughter who worked at MailSort, a direct-mail company, and a nephew who was a police officer in Miami. She served previously as a juror in a criminal case, in which the jury found a defendant guilty of speeding and drunken driving. 
 Like No.467, most of the other jurors come from modest backgrounds, potentially making the financial jargon of the case seem like another language. Mr. Scrushy, once a gas station attendant in Selma, Ala., hailed from similar humble roots before his fortune-making foray into rehabilitation hospitals. 
 Mr. Scrushy, even as he flaunted his wealth and philanthropic gifts before his trial, cultivated a homespun Alabama image, at one point recording a song, ''Honk if You Love to Honkytonk,'' with his country-and-western band, Dallas County Line.
 Yet in Birmingham, perhaps just as important as class is the matter of race. 
 Mr. Scrushy, who is white, has attempted throughout the trial to highlight his connection to African-Americans, who make up more than 70 percent of Birmingham's population. Mr. Scrushy joined a large black church before the trial began in January and has frequented and given money to other black churches throughout the city. Mr. Scrushy regularly huddled with African-American supporters, some clutching Bibles, during the trial, and he continues to do so outside the jury assembly room.
 Lawyers for Mr. Scrushy, who attended a largely white church in a prosperous suburban enclave before his legal troubles began, say his choice of churches during the trial is not related to any effort to sway the jurors. Of the five women on the jury, two are white and three are black; of the seven men, three are black and four are white. 
 It is difficult to match a jury member with a number, but two of the women still believed to be on the jury, No.157 and No.459, said in the transcripts that they lived in communities that were more than 90 percent white. Forty years after the struggles of the civil rights movement were played out on the streets of Birmingham, much of the city remains segregated. 
 That means juror No.467, who expressed doubt over unanimity in her note to the judge last week, may be one of the three black women on the jury. Of course, no one but the jurors themselves can know their opinion about Mr. Scrushy's guilt or innocence. And No.467 is just one of 12. What connection or empathy might the others have with Mr. Scrushy? 
 There is juror No.188, who told prosecutors and Mr. Scrushy's lawyers he was a Shriner from Helena, the same white community where Bo Bice, a runner-up in the ''American Idol'' TV program, lives. Both sides had plenty of questions for this juror since he said on his questionnaire that he thought rich people got better legal counsel. 
 At one point in his questioning, No.188 said, ''I feel like it's a fact that a wealthy person can afford better attorneys, and I think quite often they have an advantage in that regard.''
 Richard Smith, a prosecutor, then asked, ''Are you going to hold it against Mr. Scrushy that he hired this many lawyers?''
 In a reply that may have summed up the essence of Mr. Scrushy's trial better than anything, No.188 said: ''Certainly not. That's the way our system works. You hire the best.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Scrushy Jury''The jurors in the trial of Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of HealthSouth, are equally split between blacks and whites and they are almost equally split by gender. Here are profiles of the jurors and alternates from the pretrial questioning. Eight of the jurors are known. The four unknown are among the remaining six from the original pool, all of whom are profiled below.THE JURYWHITE MEN: 4BLACK MEN: 3WHITE WOMEN: 2BLACK WOMEN: 3KNOWN JURORSGENDER: ManIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married with two young childrenBACKGROUND: Likes to hunt and fishGENDER: ManIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married with four childrenBACKGROUND: Served in Marine Corps
now works as security guard.GENDER: ManIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Has two adult childrenBACKGROUND: Served in the Army, Army National Guard and Army ReserveGENDER: WomanIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married, no childrenBACKGROUND: Likes outdoor activities, reading and knittingGENDER: ManIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married with four children
three are adultsBACKGROUND: Works for Alabama Power as a lineman. Served in the Army.GENDER: WomanIMMEDIATE FAMILY: DaughterBACKGROUND: Security guard
hobbies include music, flowersGENDER: ManIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married with five childrenBACKGROUND: Served in Air Force ReserveGENDER: ManIMMEDIATE FAMILY: No children, no petsBACKGROUND: Hobbies include playing rugbyPOSSIBLE JURORSGENDER: WomanIMMEDIATE FAMILY: No childrenBACKGROUND: Has an uncle and cousin on police force
likes sports and shoppingGENDER: UnknownIMMEDIATE FAMILY: No childrenBACKGROUND: Likes hiking, photography, computers, sportsGENDER: WomanIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Adult daughterBACKGROUND: Homemaker
likes sewing, cooking and gardeningGENDER: UnknownIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married with three childrenBACKGROUND: Works in youth program at his or her church
hobbies include musicGENDER: WomanIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Married with three childrenBACKGROUND: Works at an H.M.O.
 hobbies include painting and readingGENDER: WomanIMMEDIATE FAMILY: Has a young childBACKGROUND: Hobbies include shopping, sewing and architecture(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JURY DUTY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); MISTRIAL (79%); ARMIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); VERDICTS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); JUDGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SENTENCING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEALTHSOUTH CORP (83%); ALABAMA POWER CO (58%)

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (83%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (83%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (83%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (83%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



634 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Inertia, Thy Name Is TKTS

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
IT is taken for granted in New York that if you need government action for a big project, you can count on little happening until maybe your grandchildren are on Social Security. If then.
 Like many statements, this one is accurate only in part. Often, nothing is built even when the project is small. 
 Such is the predisposition in this city to leave things as they are.
 It may not be the only reason that a Second Avenue subway remains a dream decades after it was first proposed. Or that the World Trade Center site is still a giant hole. Or that a planned stadium for the Far West Side is mired in political and legal muck, part of which may be cleared this week.
 But inertia does help explain why many civic projects endure as decorations on drawing boards. See many public toilets on the streets, do you? They have been talked about for only a quarter of a century or more.
 Even when small plans command broad support, they can have trouble getting off the ground. Examples abound. But a reasonable one to examine is a proposal to expand Father Duffy Square, the traffic island that is technically a city park at the northern end of Times Square. The main goal there is to build a new home for TKTS, the discount ticket booth run by the Theater Development Fund.
 TKTS, a shed surrounded by a tangle of pipes and canvas, opened in 1973. It was supposed to be temporary. But it became a Broadway fixture, cherished by many theatergoers, who buy 1.5 million discounted tickets a year. For some time, the consensus on Broadway and at City Hall has been that TKTS deserves a grander space.
 So a design competition was announced. That was in 1999. A winner was proclaimed, with construction expected to begin in a matter of months. That was in 2000. If you check your calendar, you will notice that five years have passed.
 There were obstacles, to be sure.
 A group called the Coalition for Father Duffy, never particularly fond of the TKTS booth, wanted to make certain that respect was shown to the man whose name adorns the square. That would be the Rev. Francis Patrick Duffy, a World War I Army chaplain and theater-district priest. The coalition feared that the new TKTS structure, an amphitheater with red steps for sitting, would overshadow Father Duffy's bronze statue.
 The Sept. 11, 2001, attacks also created delays. TKTS has a downtown outlet, now at the South Street Seaport. It had been in the World Trade Center.
 But the highest hurdle has been the nature of civic and political life in New York.
 Three groups with sometimes conflicting desires had to be satisfied: the Theater Development Fund, the Father Duffy coalition and the Times Square Alliance, as the area's business improvement district is now called. A bunch of government agencies had to sign on, including the Departments of Parks, Transportation and Cultural Affairs, the city's Economic Development Corporation and the local community board. With federal and state funds involved, yet more officials and politicians got to add their fingerprints.
 SPEAKING of money, the project's cost was originally put at $7 million or so. That amount has been raised from private and public sources. Unfortunately, delay in this city is expensive. Over the years, the price has risen. It is now put at more than $10 million, another obstacle.
 ''The process has been torturous,'' acknowledged Maj. Gen. Joseph A. Healey, a retired Army officer who is chairman of the Father Duffy coalition.
 Yet, in its fashion, the process ultimately worked. Compromises were made and agreements reached. Tim Tompkins, president of the Times Square Alliance, said that ''in some ways, given how messy this could be, it's been smooth sailing.'' Victoria Bailey, executive director of the Theater Development Fund, noted that while ''it's a tiny project, it's also very complex because of where it has to happen, being in Times Square.''
 All in all, the parties feel good about themselves, and they predict that construction will begin, at last, next winter.
 Not that everything is settled. Questions remain. Should work begin in stages, while everyone waits for more money to arrive before going further? Or would it be better to go with a scaled-down, less costly design? How about holding off entirely until all the cash is in hand?
 Of course, any delay would automatically mean yet higher costs. But at least waiting and doing nothing has one virtue. It is something we New Yorkers know how to do quite well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); POLITICS (74%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); WORLD WAR I (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005



635 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: China to End Its Taxes on Textile Exports in Retaliation for U.S. and European Quotas

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 30 

 BODY:
China said Monday that it was lifting self-imposed textile export tariffs in reaction to quotas on the exports by the United States and European Union. 
 The Commerce Ministry said it was removing duties it had placed on 81 products early this year.
 Commerce Minister Bo Xilai told a news conference after the announcement here that recent decisions by the United States and the European Union to restrict several categories of Chinese-made garments were ''hasty'' and ''lacking a scientific basis,'' and he rejected assertions that China was unfairly exploiting the abolition of quotas on textile exports at the beginning of 2005.
 The Americans and Europeans were themselves to blame for failing to adequately prepare their domestic textile industries for the lifting of global trade quotas and the inevitable rise in Chinese exports, Mr. Bo said. 
 ''With the integration of textile products, it's natural that we should enjoy this right,'' he said of China's export expansion after the quotas ended, a measure agreed to by the parties to the trade agreement years before. ''Europe and the United States,'' Mr. Bo added, ''should understand that in this long process, they've been negligent and have failed to fulfill their own duties.''
 In recent weeks, Washington and Brussels have invoked an agreement with China around the time it joined the World Trade Organization to apply ''safeguard measures'' that would limit the growth in Chinese exports of T-shirts, trousers, underwear, shirts, yarn and other textile products to 7.5 percent of last year's levels. Their moves come after Chinese textile exports to the United States grew 250 percent in the first four months of the year over the corresponding period last year. China's textile exports to European Union countries grew 82 percent, according to Chinese trade statistics.
 Mr. Bo said the government would resist calls from Chinese manufacturers for a W.T.O. complaint over the restrictions or to take other retaliatory measures. But the announcement on Monday suggested that the trade fight over clothing was far from over. ''If you place limits on Chinese products,'' he said, ''we'll adjust our policies accordingly. If you place five ounces of pressure on our businesses, we'll remove eight ounces of their burdens.'' 
 On Jan. 1, China introduced import duties on 148 textile products in an effort to pre-empt a backlash against Chinese exports, and on May 20 it again raised taxes on 74 of those products. Mr. Bo said that all 81 products affected by the lifting of the special taxes, which is to take effect on June 1, had been targets of American and European quotas on textiles and apparel. 
 China will defend itself against contentions that protective measures by other countries are justified, Mr. Bo added, arguing that the measures lacked any basis in trade law. ''We believe that not only have Europe and the United States failed to provide detailed data to China,'' he said, ''but also that on these matters, there is a big discrepancy between their and our analysis'' of the facts. 
 Countries invoking W.T.O. rules to limit China's rising textile exports needed to prove that the Chinese were responsible not only for ''market disruption'' but also for forcing down the prices of affected goods and threatening the ''orderly development'' of those countries' domestic industries. But recent trade data, Mr. Bo said, showed that was not the case. For example, he said, from January through March, the price of a dozen T-shirts, one of the product lines restricted by the Europeans on Friday, rose to 101 euros ($127) from 97 euros ($122), and the price of flax yarn also rose only slightly.
 European officials quickly rejected Mr. Bo's statements. A spokeswoman for the European Commission in Brussels, Claude Veron-Reville, quoted by Reuters, said it had shown that the surge in exports from China was an ''immediate risk'' to European manufacturers.
 Previously, United States officials have said that the Chinese tariffs were so low as to make little difference in textile trade volume. On Monday, officials in Washington were not available for comment, but an industry representative said he was not surprised by China's decision. Lloyd Wood, a spokesman for the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition, which has lobbied for quotas on Chinese textile exports, rejected the Chinese minister's argument that manufacturers in the United States and Europe had not adequately prepared for a rise in competitive goods from China. 
 ''There's no way you can prepare for currency manipulation, export-tax rebates and nonperforming loans from banks,'' he said, adding that his group was preparing proposals to the Bush administration to put quotas on other Chinese textile products.
 Washington's restrictions on textile products, Mr. Bo said, had cut back Chinese exports by $2 billion and affected 160,000 jobs, while European steps reduced Chinese exports by $300 million. 
 Chinese officials will have a chance to discuss the dispute directly with Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and the United States trade representative, Rob Portman, who arrive here later this week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (95%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); YARN & THREAD MILLS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%) Textiles; Customs (Tariff); International Trade and World Market; Textiles

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%) European Union

PERSON: Bo Xilai (Min); Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



636 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Repairing the Alternative Tax

 BODY:
Lawmakers have long known that the rich have ample opportunity to avoid paying income taxes. So, since 1969, the federal code has included provisions to crimp the excessive use of tax shelters and ensure that the wealthy pay taxes. This year, for instance, an estimated 7,600 millionaires would owe no income tax at all if it were not for the anti-sheltering provisions, known collectively as the alternative minimum tax. 
 But the alternative tax has gone haywire and is unfairly hitting a growing number of middle-income filers with fat tax bills, while failing to snare multimillionaires. By 2010, a couple in New York who earn $100,000 a year and claim tax deductions for a few children and state taxes will be more likely to owe the alternative tax than an unmarried billionaire in Montana making a much more generous living off a tax-sheltered stock portfolio.
 The reasons for the malfunction are complex, involving the interplay of various taxes with one another and with the economy. But this is hardly the only complicated part of the tax code, and rather than deal with the complexity and repair the alternative tax, a group of influential senators recently introduced a bill to repeal it altogether. Among them are Charles Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Max Baucus, the committee's senior Democrat.
 Outright repeal is not a serious response to a serious problem. Under the guise of protecting middle-class taxpayers, it would amount to another unnecessary and unaffordable tax cut for the very wealthy. It would also cripple the Treasury, costing the government at least $611 billion over the next 10 years. At a time when the government is already trillions of dollars in debt, that's preposterous. What is needed is a way to curb aggressive tax sheltering while preserving legitimate tax breaks for middle-income taxpayers -- without exploding the deficit. 
 For starters, Congress should protect middle-income filers by adjusting the alternative tax for inflation. Currently there is no such adjustment, so over time, ever more taxpayers reach income levels at which the alternative tax kicks in. Congress should also enact a provision that would exempt anyone making $100,000 or less from the alternative tax. Presto! The alternative tax would no longer be a scourge on the middle class. 
 Then, to fight excessive tax sheltering, Congress should close a gaping loophole in the law that allows wealthy investors to avoid paying the alternative tax on much of their investment income. Here's how the loophole works: The tax rate on investment income is typically much lower than the rate on wages and salary. For example, the tax on a $1,000 capital gain from the sale of stock generally comes to $150, while the tax on $1,000 of salary can be as high as $350. The special low rate on investment income allows investors to avoid paying tens of billions of dollars in taxes each year. And yet the alternative tax does not treat that super-low rate as a tax shelter. 
 To be fair and efficient -- and to help make up the revenue that would be lost by shielding middle-income taxpayers from the alternative tax -- investment income should be taxed the same as ordinary earned income under the alternative system. That would be anathema to anti-tax crusaders for whom the mere mention of taxing capital gains is blasphemy. But there are no easy fixes to thorny tax problems. Congress must face up to its difficult choices, the sooner the better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Taxation; Editorials; Tax Shelters; Law and Legislation

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



637 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: A New Battle Over Free Trade

 BODY:
The next trade dogfight is gearing up on Capitol Hill, this time over a trade pact with six Central American countries that altogether have a combined economy smaller than Connecticut's. The Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, would open up trade between the United States and El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. It's far from a perfect trade pact, if any such thing ever existed. But Cafta still deserves to be approved. 
 Opponents include many Democrats, labor unions and America's sugar industry, and some of their arguments are much better than others. One of the most powerful lobbying groups, the sugar industry, complains that Cafta would bring 109,000 tons of sugar imports into the country every year to compete with the local product. This is true, and to that we say, ''Bring it on.'' The American sugar beet industry is one of the most coddled farm sectors in the world, and that's saying something. American consumers are paying inflated prices for sugar, and it is unfortunate that Cafta won't do more to redress that situation. As it is, the new Central American sugar would account for only 1 percent of consumption here. 
 A complaint that is far more worrisome is that the Bush administration didn't push the Central American countries to link labor rights more forcibly to the trade agreement. The pact does include a provision for fining countries that are not enforcing labor laws, but the administration could have done better. Nevertheless, Cafta would still be a win for Central American workers. More factory jobs in these poor countries would do wonders to provide low- or no-income people with options. Denying poor people in Central America the benefits of better access to the American market is certainly not the way to lift them out of poverty.
 The most compelling argument against Cafta, however, is that it would siphon away American manufacturing jobs to Central America. That is happening anyway -- industries like textile manufacturing will continue to migrate to lower-wage nations. The economic reality of our increasingly interconnected world is that countries are best off if they lower trade barriers and try to specialize in producing the goods in which they have a comparative advantage. Places like the United States and Europe have no business trying to compete with El Salvador over who can make the cheapest T-shirts.
 Poor countries have low-wage labor for unskilled manufacturing. America and Europe have the advantage in businesses that call for high-tech, high-skilled workers, good transportation and a sophisticated legal system. That classic free trade formula, for all the short-term pain it causes, provides for an overall gain in general economic prosperity.
 None of that is an excuse for ignoring American workers who are hurt in the process. President Bush should, for example, couple his push for Cafta with a promise to put more money, and teeth, into America's underfinanced, lackluster Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which is supposed to help workers whose jobs shift overseas because of trade. 
 Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick said in a recent speech that it would be wrong to ''leave hundreds of thousands of Central Americans in poverty and helplessness because of the shortsighted protectionism of U.S. labor unions.'' He was right. But he should have gone a step further. We must also decide to help the American workers whose jobs are heading south, so that they, too, might benefit from the new world of global free trade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUGAR BEET FARMING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); TRENDS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (65%); TEXTILE MFG (64%); TEXTILE MILLS (64%); SUGAR MFG (55%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Economic Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (95%); EL SALVADOR (94%); NICARAGUA (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); COSTA RICA (93%); HONDURAS (93%); GUATEMALA (93%); EUROPE (92%) El Salvador; Guatemala; Honduras; Nicaragua; Costa Rica; Dominican Republic

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



638 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Chile's Indigenous People

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your editorial praising Chile's economic ''achievements'' (''Growth and the Poor,'' May 25) does not mention the devastating effects that the Chilean government's economic policies are having on the country's indigenous minorities. 
 While it is true that Chile's success has been ''in part the product of sustained growth,'' it is also true that this growth is destroying the culture and ability to survive of indigenous peoples such as the Mapuche and the Kaweshkar.
 The Chilean government prides itself on human rights advances made in Chile since the fall of Gen. Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, but for Chile's indigenous groups those advances remain elusive. In its quest to bring Chile's economy forth in the era of globalization, the administration of President Ricardo Lagos has failed to renounce some of General Pinochet's methods of repression against Chileans of indigenous ancestry. 
 Only when its indigenous peoples are no longer denied their rights will Chile fulfill its promise of justice for all Chileans.

Alex Taylor
Washington, May 25, 2005

The writer is Chile country specialist, Amnesty International U.S.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Indians, American

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%)

PERSON: Alex (Amnesty Intl) Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Chile

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



639 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Recalling When Flying Was an Elegant Affair

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
AS business travel picks up, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic have created advertising campaigns to promote their business-class service to American executives.
 Virgin Atlantic's $4.5 million campaign focuses on the carrier's 16 daily flights out of its nine gateways in the United States. Each flight has been given a name that evokes the romance and elegance of travel in years past and is described on new Web sites -- one for each flight -- and in ads in regional editions of national magazines.
 British Airways' $15 million campaign, which starts tomorrow, emphasizes its flight attendants' ability to anticipate a customer's needs. The carrier offers some 40 daily flights out of 19 American cities. It is British Airways' first campaign created specifically for the United States business travel market since the summer of 2000. 
 For both airlines, the stakes are high: trans-Atlantic traffic originating in the United States generates 40 percent of Virgin Atlantic's total revenue, while half of all United States revenue comes from business-class passengers.
 Almost two-thirds of British Airways' profit comes from its trans-Atlantic flights, while business-class sales generate about a third of its North American revenue. And business-class travel, which weakened after the burst of the technology bubble and plummeted after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, continues to strengthen. British Airways said its business- and first-class traffic worldwide rose 1.7 percent in March and 13.3 percent in April.
 The timing of the two campaigns is significant: Virgin Atlantic's advertising coincides with the final phasing in of its improved ''Upper Class,'' or business class, service. The airline began offering this service in late 2003, and plans to make it available on all trans-Atlantic flights by the end of the year. The service includes an upgraded seat, meals, in-flight entertainment, and on-board spa and beauty treatments.
 Mike Powell, an airline analyst with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in London, said British Airways' campaign was intended in part to respond to Virgin Atlantic's effort to win a greater share of the lucrative business travel market.
 ''British Airways is well aware of the fact that it doesn't have the market-leading trans-Atlantic business-class product,'' he said. ''It's trying to keep up with Virgin.''
 A British Airways spokeswoman said the carrier was expected to announce plans next year ''for new seats in business class.'' It was British Airways that first introduced a business-class flat bed in 2000, an innovation that has been widely copied.
 Both airlines' campaigns are also meant to counter increased trans-Atlantic service by United States airlines, Mr. Powell said. Domestic airlines will increase their trans-Atlantic capacity by 7 percent summer, while European airlines will increase theirs by only 3 percent, according to Airline Business, a trade publication. 
 ''British Airways and Virgin want to make sure the additional capacity doesn't mean they lose premium market share,'' Mr. Powell said. ''They want to remind U.S. passengers there's a far better product in the market'' than that offered by American airlines, which he said were ''unable to invest in new aircraft and on-board products.''
 Virgin Atlantic's campaign, created by Crispin Porter & Bogusky, is running in regional editions of magazines like Fortune, Conde Nast Traveler and Newsweek. The agency designed a two-page, black-and-white spread and boarding-card insert with flight details for 8 of its 16 flights.
 The concept of naming flights is meant to restore the ''romance and elegance'' of an earlier era of travel, when flights were also named, said Jeff Steinhour, a managing partner at Crispin Porter & Bogusky. The service out of Washington, D.C., is called ''the diplomat,'' while its daytime flight out of Newark is called ''the wide-eye.''
 ''We wanted to inject personality into individual flights,'' Mr. Steinhour said. 
 To that end, the flights' Web sites show films that describe each flight experience and provide details of meals and entertainment offered on each. 
 The British Airways campaign, created by the New York office of M&C Saatchi, with an online component by agency.com, a unit of the Omnicom Group, is running in magazines and on television, billboards and the Internet.
 The TV ad -- which will appear on the Golf Channel, Bravo, Fox News and elsewhere -- depicts a businessman reclining, in his New York office, in a British Airways business-class seat. Invisible hands give him a glass of champagne, canapes and a tissue to clean his glasses when he starts to wipe them with his tie.
 A magazine ad -- running in publications like Forbes, The New Yorker and The Economist -- shows two limousine drivers in an airport terminal, holding signs with the names of their arriving passengers and standing next to a man clad in white. He is holding a white terry-cloth robe and a sign with the name of a passenger -- and is waiting to provide spa services.
 The tagline on all the ads is: ''Business class is different on British Airways.''
 With this advertising, the airline has gone beyond promoting its business-class flat beds, the focus of all recent campaigns geared to business travelers. Instead, the campaign stresses that the airline anticipates ''what our customers look for when they travel,'' said Elizabeth Weisser, British Airways' vice president of marketing for North America. ''An enormous number of other carriers have come into the marketplace with flat-bed-type products similar to ours, and as a result, it was important for us to differentiate ourselves.''
 J. Grant Caplan, a corporate travel management consultant based in Houston, said the campaigns represented the British airlines' chance ''to help defeat companies like US Airways that are on the edge, or to help further weaken other carriers like United and American.''
 Mr. Caplan predicted American business travelers could switch to either British Airways or Virgin if the airlines can shake their interest in their frequent flier programs. It will be easier to convert executives whose employers do not control their travel-buying decisions as well as infrequent travelers, who are not as vested in loyalty programs, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: British Airways emphasizes personal service in its magazine ads.
 Virgin Atlantic's print campaign includes a two-page black-and-white spread, with a color insert representing a boarding card. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); TERRORISM (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); WEB SITES (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (92%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%)

ORGANIZATION: British Airways Plc; Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd; Crispin Porter & Bogusky; M&c Saatchi

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%)

PERSON: Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



640 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries: SOUNDING OFF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Is the Check-in Kiosk in the Lobby for Real?

BYLINE: By Christopher Elliott. 
E-mail: elliottc@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DUST collectors. That is what employees at the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers call their new automated check-in kiosks, as one guest who has repeatedly tried to use them found. 
 ''I was checking in, and try as hard as I might, the kiosk wouldn't cooperate,'' Henry Harteveldt recalled. He flagged down a staff member and said, ''This doesn't seem to work.'' 
 ''Oh,'' she shrugged. ''You mean our dust collector? It never works.'' 
 The Sheraton employee had no idea she was confiding to the vice president of travel research at Forrester Research. Otherwise she might not have been so forthright. But that situation is hardly unusual. As these automated check-in machines multiply, the scene is likely to be repeating itself in hotels across the country. 
 The problem is that the automated check-in kiosks are unreliable. Mr. Harteveldt estimates that more than one in 10 hotel kiosk transactions fail, either because they are incapable of making contact with the hotel's reservation system, or, if they are able to make a link, because they generate a key to the wrong room. 
 Experienced business travelers often avoid the machines because their performance is so unpredictable. 
 Rod Mano, the senior director of property technology applications for Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Sheraton's parent company, acknowledges that the kiosks are prone to breakdowns. ''At the Sheraton New York, there are times when one or two are down for maintenance,'' he said. ''Sometimes, they also run out of paper and keys.'' 
 Sheraton already deploys the machines in 10 North American hotels and plans to increase that number to 100 by year's end. 
 Not to single out Sheraton. Marriott International, which is introducing kiosks in about 20 hotels this summer, displayed some of its new check-in devices at its general managers' conference in Orlando recently. I was hard-pressed to find one that worked. 
 A spokesman for Marriott, John Wolf, said the kiosks were not connected to the hotel's reservations system. ''They were there for demonstration purposes,'' he said. That explains the machines that were turned on but unable to process a transaction. But what about the other kiosks and hand-held check-in machines that were either not operational or that displayed error messages? 
 The Hilton Hotels Corporation, one of the most enthusiastic advocates of kiosks, is not immune to the technology troubles, either. It has about 102 machines in 44 hotels and plans to add about 100 more this year. But a few months ago, I spoke with John Burrows, an insurance executive from Hartford, Conn., who used one at the New York Hilton and was issued a key to an occupied room. 
 If today's hotel kiosks were employees, they would now be standing on the unemployment line. But you don't fire a $15,000 piece of equipment. You fix it.
 Certainly, the hotel industry is determined to get the job done right after striking out twice before. It tried to introduce kiosks in the mid-1980's, but guests were just not interested. A second effort in the 1990's failed again, mostly for the same reason, said Gabriele Piccoli, an assistant professor at the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration. 
 ''In a sense,'' he said, ''the kiosks have already been fired twice before.'' This time around, the hotel industry has invested far more heavily in the machines than in the past, and few analysts believe it will backtrack yet again. After all, over the long haul the kiosk could save money and streamline the check-in and check-out process.
 Guests will just have to get used to them. Besides, any gadget that can get you to your room more quickly is probably a good thing. But some business travelers, all too aware of the reputation the hotel industry has for generating extra fees, are already wondering whether the industry will yet again figure out a way to wring a little extra cash out of unsuspecting customers. 
 If the kiosks are everywhere, these skeptics ask, what's to stop a hotel from charging you a fee to talk with a real employee when you check in? After all, don't the airlines already do that? 
 All three hotel chains I interviewed for this story said they had no plans to do any such thing. We'll see. 
 Meantime, here is my advice: Whenever you see a kiosk in a hotel lobby, head right for it. Use it. And if it spits out the keys to the wrong room, or otherwise malfunctions, go to the front desk and squawk. Hotels monitor kiosk usage, paying close attention to their elite-level guests. Nothing will prod them to get their machines in working order and keep them that way than the fear of alienating their best customers. 
 For hotels, repairing the machines may be the easy part. Dealing with nervous employees, who see them as potential replacements, is the real challenge.


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); RESORTS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Hotels and Motels; Kiosks

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (85%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (67%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%); HOT (NYSE) (67%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (54%) Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



641 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE FRENCH DECISION: THE AFTERMATH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: FRENCH NO VOTE ON CONSTITUTION RATTLES EUROPE

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, May 30 

 BODY:
The shock waves of France's rejection of a constitution for Europe reverberated throughout the Continent on Monday, with Britain suggesting that it might cancel its own popular vote on the document and the naysayers in the Netherlands gaining even more confidence that a no vote will prevail in a referendum there on Wednesday.
 In France, the vote plunged the center-right government into crisis. President Jacques Chirac will announce ''decisions concerning the government'' and make a declaration on French television on Tuesday.
 The statement was interpreted to mean that he would dismiss Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin and reshuffle his cabinet as a direct result of the repudiation of Mr. Chirac's leadership in a referendum on the European Union constitution on Sunday. 
 There has been open speculation for months that Mr. Raffarin would be replaced if the constitution failed in France, and after a 30-minute meeting with Mr. Chirac in Elysee Palace on Monday, the affable but unpopular prime minister said, ''There will be developments today or tomorrow.''
 He declined to say whether he had offered his resignation, telling reporters: ''I'm going for a stroll around Paris. See you later.''
 The euro fell sharply on Monday as traders in the United States sold the currency a day after the French vote, slipping to a seven-month low of about $1.25 in late afternoon trading.
 Farmers, workers and the unemployed were among those who led the way to the defeat of the European Union constitution in France, voting no in high numbers largely over concerns about the economy. European leaders who had promoted the constitution as the logical, if revolutionary, next step in the growth and unification of the 25-member bloc could not hide their disappointment.
 The most serious potential foreign fallout from the no vote in France came on Monday from Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who called for a ''time for reflection,'' saying it was too early to decide whether a popular vote could go ahead in his country. 
 ''Underneath all this there is a more profound question, which is about the future of Europe and, in particular, the future of the European economy and how we deal with the modern questions of globalization and technological change,'' Mr. Blair told journalists during a vacation in Italy. Nine European Union members ratified the constitution before the French referendum. But France's no vote is likely to kill the constitution -- at least in its current form -- because it requires approval by all of the union's member countries. 
 In a sense, consideration of the constitution by other member countries, including the Dutch vote on Wednesday, is only a political exercise in democracy to allow each of them the right to proclaim approval or rejection. But the Dutch vote is important nonetheless. 
 At the moment there is no plan to revise the constitution and put it before member states again. If the Dutch also reject the constitution, it would be that much harder to persuade the rest of the member states to go forward with putting any document up for ratification, particularly those that plan to do it by popular vote. 
 ''This is a critical moment in Europe's history,'' said Jean-Luc Dehaene, a former Belgian prime minister and one of the architects of the constitution, in a telephone interview. ''It is clear that the French no brings Europe to a kind of standstill.'' The French, he said, ''are completely without orientation and in a period of complete uncertainty.''
 The Netherlands, which like France was one of the six founding members of Europe's original union, ''will not be in a position to play its leadership role in Europe if it votes no,'' Mr. Dehaene said. As for Britain, he added, ''It is not impossible that the British government will hide behind the back of France to avoid the difficult discussion in Britain.''
 For the time being, the British foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said he would announce a decision on whether to go ahead with a vote no earlier than next week.
 Mr. Blair's tentative remarks contrasted with the bold approach taken by other European leaders, including Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, who said the ratification process must go on despite the French vote. 
 ''Life continues,'' Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, said at ld a news conference at the union's headquarters in Brussels after France's repudiation of the treaty. ''For me, the worst that could happen is if, as a consequence of that, you or the citizens of the European Union or the leaders of the European Union enter into a zone of paralysis psychologically.''
 In Washington, the State Department, in a brief statement on the vote, emphasized continuity in trans-Atlantic relations, not concern. The administration has remained aloof from the particulars of the constitutional debate.
 ''We welcome a strong, integrated Europe that is an effective partner for addressing the many challenges we face together,'' said a spokesman, Noel Clay. ''We have such a partnership now with the European Union and expect to continue to build on this relationship, however the E.U. evolves.''
 The constitution is intended to provide an ambitious, streamlined system for growth and greater unity in the newly expanded 25-country bloc. If the document is abandoned, member states will have to continue working together under a cumbersome and limiting array of existing treaties and rules adopted when the union was smaller.
 In an effort to salvage the European unification process, some European figures were sugarcoating their earlier dire predictions of the consequences of the French veto.
 Not long ago, for example, Romano Prodi, the former president of the European Commission, had predicted that a French no would mean ''the end of Europe.'' On Monday he called the outcome ''a disaster,'' but insisted that the union would continue to function under current rules and that things could be worse.
 ''This is still better than a war of secession like the United States once had,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''I'm serious now. We must keep this perspective in mind. We don't have a treaty, but we also don't have wars.''
 That is certainly true, but the lowest-common-denominator approach was not what the leaders of Europe had in mind when they embarked on the drafting of the constitution, a process that took two and a half years.
 After the French vote, the European Commission president, Jose Manuel Durao Barroso, warned of ''a risk of contagion.''
 Indeed, contagion could come as early as Wednesday, when voters in the Netherlands go to the polls to pass judgment on the constitution.
 After the French vote, the Dutch prime minister, Jan Peter Balkenende, told reporters, ''The Dutch, of course, do not take any orders from France.'' But a new Dutch poll taken after the French vote and made public on Monday for NOS public television showed an increase in voters intending to vote no to 55 percent, up from 51 percent just two days ago. Only 38 percent said they planned to vote in favor of the constitution.
 President Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic, whose country has yet to decide whether to support the charter, declared it ''a thing of the past.'' He added, ''The French referendum, and its result, clearly demonstrated the deep division that exists between the European elite and the citizens of Europe.''
 That view was underscored by the voting trends in the vote in France.
 According to the Ipsos polling agency, 70 percent of farmers voted no, despite the fact that France is the largest recipient of European Union farm subsidies.
 Public and blue-collar workers and the unemployed, all low-pay groups vulnerable in a country with more than 10 percent unemployment, voted no by 60 percent to 79 percent.
 Although most of the Socialist Party hierarchy lobbied in favor of the treaty, 56 percent of Socialist voters rejected it. On the political extremes, 98 percent of the Communist Party and 93 percent of the extreme right National Front voted no.
 Paris and Lyon, two of France's biggest cities, and pro-European regions like Alsace, Brittany and the Loire Valley voted yes, while rural France and smaller cities and towns voted no. Most surprisingly, 55 percent of people ages 18 to 25 rejected the treaty, underscoring what appeared to be a lack of trust in the future of Europe and the leadership of France.
 Humiliated and badly weakened in the eyes of both his own citizens and the world, Mr. Chirac is now at one of the lowest points of his 10-year presidency. The French media openly mocked him today.
 ''Did he manage to sleep so well on Sunday night?'' the weekly L'Express asked in its latest edition on Monday. ''He must realize to what extent the failure of the referendum is a personal disaster.''
 Serge July, the editor of the left-leaning daily Liberation, referred today to ''the disastrous end'' of Mr. Chirac's ''reign,'' while the daily Le Monde said the president ''begins the end of his mandate discredited.''
 In Poland, the daily Zycie Warszawy joked Monday about the ''Polish plumber who petrified France,'' a reference to the mythical worker from new European Union members like Poland who is free to move west and willing to work for lower pay than Frenchmen.
 On Monday, Mr. Chirac held closed-door meetings, not only with Mr. Raffarin but also with a number of officials who might possibly replace him, including Nicolas Sarkozy, the leader of their ruling Union for a Popular Movement but a political enemy of Mr. Chirac; Interior Minister Dominique de Villepin, considered like a political son to Mr. Chirac; Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie; and Francois Bayrou, the leader of the Christian-right Union for French Democracy.
 Mr. Raffarin is being blamed in some quarters for the rejection of the constitution because of opinion surveys indicating that voters used the ballot partly to punish the French government's failure to tackle high unemployment and painful cost-cutting changes.
 Mr. de Villepin is considered the front-runner for the prime minister's job, but he is not liked by much of the French political establishment, including deputies in Parliament who consider him distant from the people and complain that he does not bother to consult them.
 A CSA opinion poll for France 3 television showed that Mr. Sarkozy, the most popular politician on the right, was the public's choice with 25 percent of voters wanting him to become prime minister. Only 11 percent favored Mr. de Villepin. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dutch politicians including Maxime Verhagen, left, leader of the Christian Democrats, and Andre Rouvoet, right, the Christian Union leader, debated the European constitution yesterday, ahead of a vote Wednesday. (Photo by Ed Oudenaarden/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A10)
 Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, right, spoke with his cabinet director, Michel Boyon, center, yesterday amid speculation that Mr. Raffarin would be replaced because of the rejection of the European constitution. (Photo by Pascal Pavani/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''France's No Could Result in Standstill''In a referendum on Sunday, France voted down the European Union constitution, an action that could potentially derail ratification because all 25 member countries must approve it. The Netherlands will vote next, and if its rejection follows, the likelihood of other member states going ahead with a popular vote on ratification may be uncertain.RATIFICATION PROCESS SO FAROCT. '04After more than a year is spent writing a draft, leaders of all 25 countries sign it.NOV. '04Ratification begins: LithuaniaDEC. '04HungaryFEB. '05SloveniaAPRIL '05Italy and GreeceMAY '05Slovakia, Germany, Spain and AustriaMAY 29, 2005France votes no. Pollsters cite reasons including a retaliation against the center-right government and fears that the treaty will erode generous social programs in France.JUNE 1, 2005The Netherlands will vote. Polls predict a majority will vote no.SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CONSTITUTIONThe constitution is intended to blend existing cumbersome and limiting treaties into one unifying document.EUROPEAN UNION: A BRIEF HISTORYMAY 1950 -- The idea of European integration is proposed as a way to secure peace after World War II. In 1951, six countries form a precursor to the current European Union. France is a founding member.1957 -- The European Economic Community is formed, removing trade barriers between member countries.1992 -- The Treaty of Maastricht opens new forms of cooperation between the member governments, creating the European Union.Map of Europe highlights sections divided by Ratified constitution, Other European Union countries and Failed to ratify.(Source by European Union)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); WRITERS (66%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); APPROVALS (60%); WORLD WAR II (59%) Constitutions; Referendums; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%) European Union

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); TONY BLAIR (58%) Elaine Sciolino; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; George W (Pres) Bush; Jean-Pierre (Prime Min) Raffarin

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); NETHERLANDS (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Europe; France; Great Britain; Netherlands; Europe; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



642 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Fed Debates Pricking the U.S. Housing 'Bubble'

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30 

 BODY:
If the housing market has become a bubble, as increasing numbers of economists warn, would the Federal Reserve try to deflate it?
 The idea runs counter to a deep-seated view at the central bank, which refused to puncture the stock market bubble of the 1990's and continues to view its main job as preventing inflation rather than influencing the prices of stocks, bonds or real estate.
 ''We recognized that, despite our suspicions, it was very difficult to definitively identify a bubble until after the fact,'' said Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, in a speech two years ago. The idea that the collapse of a bubble can be softened by pricking it in advance ''is almost surely an illusion,'' he said. 
 But many economists say the housing market poses a different challenge from the stock market. For one thing, they say, the Federal Reserve's policies have played a much more direct role in the housing boom than they did in the technology-fueled stock bubble.
 ''This time around, the Fed's policies have played a part,'' said Nigel Gault, a senior economist at Global Insight, an economic forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass. ''Its policy has been to boost the housing market and the consumer through very low interest rates.''
 Others worry that the Federal Reserve has tacitly encouraged risky speculation through its role as a chief regulator of the banking industry, which has steadily relaxed lending standards and allowed home buyers to borrow more money through higher-risk loans.
 ''The Fed chairman cleaned up the mess caused by the bursting of the technology and telecom bubbles, by creating another bubble,'' wrote Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Oak Associates. ''Now he has failed to stop the alarming deterioration of mortgage lending standards to stop the housing bubble.''
 Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now a principal at Macroeconomic Advisers, said the evidence of risky lending practices was abundant. Even though mortgage rates remain at their lowest point in decades, more than half of all new mortgages are either interest-only loans or adjustable-rate loans that start out cheap but can become very costly if rates rise.
 ''These kinds of mortgages are feeding higher prices but they are also the kinds of loans that are most vulnerable to distress,'' Mr. Meyer said.
 The issue of a possible housing ''bubble,'' where prices become inflated by unrealistic expectations of even higher prices in the near future, poses difficult issues for the Fed.
 Mr. Greenspan and other officials have long argued that it is not their job to influence the price of assets whether stock prices or real estate. Rather, they contend, the central bank's job is to keep inflation low and to promote the maximum sustainable growth without fueling inflation.
 But the Fed faces an unusual problem: it has raised the Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks eight times since last June, but long-term interest rates and mortgage rates are actually lower than they were one year ago.
 The unexpected persistence of low long-term interest rates -- which Mr. Greenspan called a ''conundrum'' in February -- has driven the sales and prices of housing to record levels.
 Earlier this month, Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that housing prices showed signs of ''froth.'' Though he remained skeptical about the existence of a nationwide housing bubble, he said there were signs of ''lots of little bubbles'' in particular local markets.
 The National Association of Realtors reported last week that sales of existing homes reached a record in April, an annual rate of 7.18 million sales, and that the median price of a home had shot up 15.1 percent from one year earlier, the biggest jump since 1980.
 In the wake of the stock market bubble, Mr. Greenspan and other top Fed officials argued that it was a mistake to try to head off potential bubbles, in part because they are difficult to identify in advance and in part because the effort might easily cause more damage than it prevents.
 ''I think for the Fed to be an 'arbiter of security speculation or values' is neither desirable nor feasible,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, a Fed governor, in late 2002. Mr. Bernanke said some leading economists had warned that stock prices were unsustainably high in 1997, when in fact stocks continued to rise for another three years. If the Fed had tried to prevent stocks from rising in the last half of the 1990's, he continued, it would have choked off growth and perhaps prevented the big increases in productivity that occurred.
 In recent months, Mr. Bernanke has tended to play down concerns about housing. As recently as March, Mr. Bernanke predicted that the housing market would slow down from its torrid pace but that residential construction ''should remain reasonably strong in 2005.''
 But other Fed officials have hinted at rising concern. Roger Ferguson, the Fed's vice chairman, gave an analysis on Friday of the link between monetary conditions and peaks in the stock and housing markets.
 Mr. Ferguson, who looked at the experiences of more than a dozen countries, said there appeared to be little link between growth in the supply of money and peaks in the stock market. But, he continued, there was a much closer correlation between growth in the money supply and peaks in the real estate market.
 Mr. Ferguson stopped short of drawing policy conclusions. But he said housing prices were ''relatively high when judged by conventional measures'' and that ''in some markets the most prudent judgment is that the growth of house prices will slow.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan is the chairman of the Federal Reserve. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BONDS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); ETHICS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); CREDIT REGULATION (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%) Housing; Housing; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Housing; Mortgages; Industry Profiles; Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Healthsouth Corp; Healthsouth Corp; Federal Reserve System; Global Insight Inc

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) Simon Romero; Kyle Whitmire; Richard M Scrushy; Karon O (Judge) Bowdre; Edmund L Andrews; Nigel Gault

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%) Birmingham (Ala)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



643 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: After the Vote, No Signs of Collapse

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: PARIS, May 30 

 BODY:
The unthinkable at least to most French politicians -- happened. And the European markets shrugged. 
 ''If we believed the warnings of politicians about the effects of a no vote, then the European Union would be on the verge of a terrible catastrophe,'' Robert Carnell, an economist at ING, wrote on Monday after French voters refused to ratify the constitution. ''Fortunately, these dire warnings were never a reality, and the European Union is not a rubble-strewn wasteland this morning.'' 
 In the aftermath of the vote, the most obvious result was to shake up French politics, with President Jacques Chirac hinting he would replace the prime minister, Jean-Pierre Raffarin. If he is ousted, Mr. Raffarin will leave as Mr. Chirac's two previous prime ministers did, with their reputations severely damaged and widespread doubts about whether they have any political future at all. 
 The French stock market opened lower, but began to recover late in the morning, and ended with a small gain. Perhaps of more significance, the index is more than 2 percent above where it was on March 17, the day before the first poll indicated that French voters might reject the constitution.
 In light trading on a day when financial markets were closed in London and New York, the euro fell to its lowest level since October.
 But only part of the move reflects the weakness of the euro, since the dollar has also been gaining during that period against the British pound and the Japanese yen, said Julian Jessop, an economist with Capital Economics. The euro has suffered for reasons other than the fate of the constitution, notably the evidence of a slowdown in European economies, with Italy appearing to be in a recession.
 Some market speculation held that Eastern Europe would be worse affected by a French rejection, on the theory that it would set back the cause of European unity and reduce the chances of the euro being adopted in that region. But markets in the Czech Republic and Poland showed small gains.
 Even Turkey, whose desire to join the European Union was widely believed to have hurt the constitution's chances in France, showed a gain. But if the quiet market reaction belied the warnings of politicians, such as Jacques Delors, a former president of the European Commission, who forecast a ''political cataclysm,'' and Romano Prodi, who was the commission's president when the constitution was written and who said a rejection would amount to ''the fall of Europe,'' it is far less clear if the vote will be seen as a turning point for Europe.
 ''Talk of an apocalypse is surely overdone,'' said Mr. Jessop, adding that the vote showed that Mr. Chirac and Mr. Raffarin were unpopular and that the French people were worried about the economy. ''We did not really need a referendum to tell us this.''
 Those opposing the constitution included elements of the left and the right in France, as did the supporters. Mr. Chirac argued that a vote for the constitution was a vote to reject what he saw as the ultra-free market policies of Anglo-Saxon countries. Opponents said the constitution enshrined such policies.
 If the campaign left the policy implications unclear, the vote could be seen as a rejection of the political leadership of France and, perhaps more broadly, much of Europe.
 Recent national elections in Spain, Greece and Portugal have resulted in the incumbent party being thrown out, and regional elections in France, Italy and Germany have seen widespread rejections of the ruling party.
 Only in Britain, where the economy has been much better, did an incumbent party win a new term of office.
 Whether that will persuade European leaders that their current policies need changing, and if so what changes are needed, remains to be seen. Mr. Carnell, the ING economist, said that the vote highlighted the still substantial differences within the European Union.
 ''By pushing European economies towards homogeneity, the constitution's failure has simply highlighted these differences,'' he wrote. ''The result may well be that economies within the E.U. now pursue goals of integration and harmonization at different speeds, or not at all, and that Europe begins to evolve in a more pluralist fashion. In our view, there is nothing wrong with that.''
 If governments are seen to be promoting economic growth and competitiveness, both vis-a-vis one another and the rest of the world, both the euro and stock markets may do better than if it appears governments read the referendum as a rejection of their efforts to make labor markets more competitive and pension systems less generous. 
 ''If there are going to be setbacks, it's going to be because of a rise of a very unsavory populism with its protectionist tendencies,'' said Maria Livanos Cattaui, the secretary general of the International Chamber of Commerce, which is based in Paris.
 The most visible immediate change seems likely to be a new face in the French prime minister's office. The precedent for the way Mr. Chirac's prime ministers have left office was perhaps set thousands of years ago in Massilia, a city founded by the Greeks. It is now known as Marseilles.
 ''Whenever Marseilles, one of the busiest and most brilliant of Greek colonies, was ravaged by a plague, a man of the poorer classes used to offer himself as a scapegoat,'' wrote the historian James George Frazer, in his 1922 book, ''The Golden Bough.'' ''For a whole year he was maintained at the public expense, being fed on choice and pure food. At the expiry of the year he was dressed in sacred garments, decked with holy branches, and led through the whole city, while prayers were uttered that all the evils of the people might fall on his head. He was then cast out of the city or stoned to death by the people outside of the walls.''
 Prime ministers have performed that role in Mr. Chirac's France. They last longer than a year, and they do not come from the lower classes.
 But both of Mr. Raffarin's predecessors left with few expecting them to ever hold office again. Mr. Raffarin seems likely to follow in that tradition.
 It is not clear what effect that scapegoating would have on policy. But the markets appear to be less concerned than are many French politicians. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); RECESSION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); BONDS (67%) Constitutions; Referendums; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); ROMANO PRODI (54%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Europe; France

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



644 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Chemical Plant Security

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I didn't know until I read Adam Cohen's Editorial Observer about chemical plant security (''A Lawmaker Works, Oddly Enough, to Keep His Voters' Backyards Dangerous,'' May 26) that I was in favor of so many awful things. Maybe he'll write more so I can know what else I like. 
 In the meantime, here's what I'm sure that I support: both safety and jobs. Mr. Cohen's way requires 1.5 million new guards to protect chemical plants and their 3 million workers. I know what's going to happen if we go that way. We'll have 4.5 million unemployed after the plants move to China.
 I also support the Department of Homeland Security, which we ordered to protect the public from the chemical plant risks, and which seems to be doing a good job of it.

Joe Barton
Chairman, House Energy and Commerce Committee
Washington, May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY (92%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); LEGISLATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TERRORISM (66%) Chemicals; Security and Warning Systems; Law and Legislation; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: JOE BARTON (77%) Joe L (Rep) Barton; Adam Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005



645 of 645 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Begin Trade Case Over Airbus

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER; Paul Meller contributed reporting for this article from Brussels.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30 

 BODY:
The Bush administration announced on Monday that it would bring a case against the European Union at the World Trade Organization over European subsidies to the aircraft maker Airbus, reviving a dispute on a scale that may turn out to be the largest ever heard by the trade organization.
 The dispute centers on the billions of dollars in government subsidies given to the American and European industry giants, Boeing and Airbus, and it promises to involve the most money in any case that has been brought before the W.T.O. 
 After months of fractious negotiations, talks broke down after a European proposal on Friday to reduce, rather than eliminate all subsidies.
 The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, released a statement late Monday afternoon, saying he would ask the W.T.O. on Tuesday to form a panel to consider the dispute. His decision followed a telephone conversation earlier in the day with Peter Mandelson, the top-ranking European trade official, and an unusual public rebuke from the United States. 
 Richard Mills, a spokesman for the trade representative's office, accused the European Commission on Monday of ''spinning to the press'' by disclosing the offer it had made to the United States.
 ''We had an agreement with the Europeans that each side would quietly reflect on the Friday call over the weekend,'' he said, adding that Mr. Portman's office was ''extremely disappointed'' that European officials had talked to journalists about it.
 At issue is the insistence in Washington that during the private negotiations, the Europeans abide by an agreement to halt all subsidies to Airbus, as well as what is called launch aid -- assistance toward the development of new aircraft. 
 The aim of the talks, begun in January, was to end government subsidies to the two aircraft industries and agree to ''fair market competition'' in the development and production of large civilian aircraft in Europe and the United States.
 The two sides held off on threatened lawsuits then, saying they preferred to reach agreement themselves rather than have a global trade arbiter resolve the dispute.
 The Europeans offered an initial compromise on Friday that would have cut roughly a third of the nearly $1 billion in subsidies intended to help Airbus build a prototype airliner, the A350, in exchange for agreement by the United States to similar reductions in support of Boeing jets.
 Mr. Portman replied that the two sides had agreed to a full suspension of all subsidies and that the European Union was required to respect that agreement. ''Unfortunately, at this point,'' he said, ''the E.U. is no longer willing to hold off on launch aid, and has only proposed to reduce subsidies, not end them.''
 Mr. Mandelson said in a statement that the American decision was ''a surprising and disappointing move,'' especially after Europe had made its offer as the first round in a two-stage agreement. He is expected to announce a retaliatory case against the United States at a news conference on Tuesday, according to an official in Brussels. 
 But in the highly competitive world of civilian aircraft making, the United States and Boeing were adamant that the Europeans refrain from the new subsidies for a plane that would compete directly with Boeing's new 787 jet in the market for long-distance, midsize passenger and cargo aircraft.
 The dispute between the world's two biggest trading powers, its new details made public, came within hours of the rejection in a French referendum of the European Union constitution. And it led to a hasty and unusual joint statement from the two officials pledging that they would cooperate in all other matters.
 ''We remain united in our determination that this dispute shall not affect our cooperation on wider bilateral and multilateral trade issues,'' they said. ''We have worked together well so far, and intend to continue to do so.''
 But American trade officials said the evidence had been mounting that the Europeans would move ahead with the launching aid and that they saw no reason not to go to the W.T.O. and at least ensure that this would be the last time the Europeans subsidized a prototype aircraft.
 ''There is no doubt about it, this is a very, very significant case in the history of the W.T.O.,'' said a senior American trade negotiator, who asked not to be further identified because of the sensitive nature of the case. ''But the W.T.O. is the place to resolve such issues, a neutral body with set rules.''
 The United States wants European nations to end the $40 billion in aid they give to Airbus through these low-interest launching loans. That amount would be the most in dispute in a case before the W.T.O.
 European trade officials, however, say that the United States has paid Boeing ''massive illegal subsidies that damage Airbus,'' like tax benefits and subsidized research and development.
 The dispute stems from a 1992 agreement that outlined how the governments on both sides could support their airline industries. Since that agreement, Airbus surpassed Boeing as the leading supplier of commercial aircraft. But in recent months, Boeing has been winning orders for the 787, making it more pressing for Airbus to get the financing to develop its challenger, the A350. 
 Boeing, a huge-scale American exporter, provides rare relief for the record United States trade deficit with the sale of planes to China and other Asian nations.
 Jeopardizing such an important industry when so much of the United States manufacturing base is disappearing was out of the question, said trade officials, when President Bush announced last October that he would protect Boeing from what he called unfair competition by Airbus.
 The Europeans cried foul and said Mr. Bush was motivated by election-year politics. But the two sides agreed to negotiate rather than file suits at the W.T.O. in January, a month in advance of a trip by Mr. Bush to Europe.
 Several industry analysts have said that neither the United States nor the Europeans would be pleased if the World Trade Organization prohibited critical subsidies, especially for research, that could undercut their airline industries.
 Despite Monday's decision to initiate a suit at the W.T.O., Mr. Portman said the United States preferred a settlement. ''We still believe that a bilateral negotiated solution is possible,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIRLINES (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); LITIGATION (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; International Trade and World Market; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (96%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) Boeing Co; Airbus Industrie; European Union; World Trade Organization

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (88%); PETER MANDELSON (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Elizabeth Becker; Rob Portman; Peter Mandelson

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005

 
